ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Before we get on the agenda, let me allow the honourable Members and Members to express, on their own behalf and on behalf of the many people today, in this session of the Galician Parliament, our solidarity, affection and closeness to the disaster in Palma by the volcano of the Old Summit. We have the assurance that in the face of an event of these characteristics, all Greeks and Greeks are and feel canaries. [[Applause]] And now if we go into the seventh item on the agenda, questions for the oral response of the President of Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u2	We begin with Mr. Caballero Miguez, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, asked about the strategy for the achievement of next generation funds for the reactivation of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u3	Mr. Knight has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that we have just suffered an economic crisis resulting from an enormous pandemic and that this political course has to be that of reactivation and modernization. And today the latest socio-economic report of the Galician Forum is published, which includes part of the risks and challenges we face: the deterioration of the quality of employment, the highest level of severe poverty, which reaches 230,000 Greeks and Greeks, the risk of increasing inequality... These are elements that need to be cut and solved while we are working on the recovery of economic activity, in an economy where GDP resented its productive structure with less intensity, but where we are still at 4.2 points below the actual GDP level it prescribes, and in what we also need to generate jobs. This is the activity that has to center the agenda of the Government of Galicia. An agenda that has to be based on promoting modernization, facing a dual ecological digital transition that is fundamental, because we have to modernise Galicia's economy and productive structure; we have to make employment policies because the Greek economy has a deficit in employment generation over the last decade, before the time of the cod and probably now in the poscovid recovery according to the most appropriate indicators and analyses we can do. And also the challenge of well-being to build a protective umbrella where the Greeks and the Greeks can go ahead. And we're worried because we see lack of action on the part of the Joint Government. Public investment is necessary to modernise the Greek economy, public investment is necessary to generate quality employment and to place the Greek economy in a virtuous circle to generate employment, well-being, economic activity and increase in aggregate demand. That's the challenge of a Galician government that hasn't done economic policy over the last decade and needs to put the task of reactivation back on the table. I ask the Government of Spain too; a government that has driven a Marshall Plan in Europe, which has driven expanding policies, which has faced the crisis with radically different policies that you applied, those on the right, when they rule in the great recession. And I also ask the Government to maintain its investment commitment to economic reactivation, also in Galicia, where I want to ask the Government of Spain to increase public investment funds in transport and infrastructure to generate that virtuous circle. I hope the Government of Spain will meet, but I hope, Mr. Feijóo, that you will meet with the Greeks and the Greeks. And in order to do so, you have to set a priority map for European funds. We've been talking about priorities for Galicia for the European Funds for a year. And here in Galicia there is no one on the wheel, there is no one on European funds who can fly this situation. There's no one on the wheel because the Galician Union prefers to make rocket politics. Shooting a rocket announcing seven tractor projects, shooting another rocket speaking of one hundred six, another rocket of three hundred fifty-four, and releasing small rockets into press ads every day a headline, every day a search for a news, but without any kind of content or orientation. The Government of Spain has just asked you, Mr Feijóo, to map out priorities, to structure which are Galicia's priorities to go to European funds. And I ask you not to leave Galicia orphaned by the opportunities that the next generation funds give. It's time to address full recovery. A recovery that can't be kept in the hands of large companies, but it has to have mechanisms to boost the productive chain so they can reach the whole of citizenship and generate an integral recovery. And that's what we want to tell you. We've been talking about European projects for over a year, which are fundamental to Galicia, and its policy has been the policy of not doing anything, of announcing and not having priorities, of lack of strategy and of lack of modeling. We are today just like a year ago talking about European projects because the Government of Galicia has not had any strategy or action. And I mean, it's time to take that job seriously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u6	...that we must govern thinking about reactivation. And Galicia cannot miss the opportunity to place European funds in those strategic projects for reactivation. Management and commitment are required. The politics of the conflict is the policy of the PP, but it's not the policy that gives results to the Greeks and the Greeks. And to guide, to collaborate and contribute, as has been done in other autonomous communities, some in which the PP governs and others in which the Socialist Party also governs, I mean, Mr Feijóo, that takes the topic of public investment and serious European projects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u8	...and to allow there to be great agreements in this country so that Galicia does not miss a historic opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u9	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u10	...that we can't afford to leave behind. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u11	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Caballero, indeed, the Galician Economic Forum just took stock yesterday of what we have in crisis. And I want to tell you that we haven't just experienced an economic crisis, we're in a deep economic crisis. And the Economic Forum says Galicia grows twice as much as the average of Spain. You should at least not mutilate what the economic forum says. Besides, as you know, Your Honor, at work in Galicia we've been down in unemployment for eight months. We are the autonomous community with the highest unemployment rate in Spain. That's why it's funny to even talk about priorities in the Next Generation funds. We don't take anything else into our priorities that actually realize it, which are the proposals of the Next Generation. From the very first moment in an alarming state, we have created a commission of economists, university professors, companies and joint ventures in Galicia to realize priorities. And what we ask logically is clarity of criteria to assess these funds and a guarantee of territorial cohesion from Spain so that these funds do not go to the Socialist Party partners. Your Honor, the Government is not fulfilling. And it is not doing so because it has committed itself to the Conference of Presidents to transfer 50% of the funds to the autonomous communities, and it turns out that at present 60 % of the funds directly manage them by the Government of Spain. And the 34 percent that refers to the autonomous communities does not refer them to make the communities do their industrial policies of employment and energy, no, send them to assist and manage exactly with thoroughness what the Government of Spain wants to do. Therefore, Your Honor, the precise conditions of the Government of Spain are conforming to autonomous communities as mere management offices of the decisions of the funds that mark the Central Government, that is, the Socialist Party. This should bother you. So I see it's not so; on the contrary, it seems to be defending what the central government does. By the way, Your Honor, the Central Government and the Marshall Plan that you announce, in relation to the policies of the People's Party, you remember that the Marshall Plan of what you are talking about, that is, the Next Generation funds, these are approved by the European People's Parliamentary Group, which is what the European Commission is managing. But, in any case, when you say we have no priorities... Your Honor, after the expert committee, we set up a parliamentary committee. In the parliamentary committee the Socialist Party, the BNG and the majority group were. We've been working on priorities for ten months! One hundred and fifty reports were made, forty-nine economic and social agents appeared, fifty-two opposition amendments were incorporated, we proposed five hundred and six headings, of which 72 % did not have one vote against. The Socialist Party has not voted against anything. That's right, he abstained at all. I mean, are you talking about priorities? Of the 500 proposals, the Socialist Party has abstained at all, it does not vote against any, but it does not vote for any, do you think that this is a priority? It'll be a joke, Mr. Knight. What's your priority? I don't know her. But if I can assure you that our priorities will be referred to the Central Government. There are five main priorities: the forest sector, the health sector, the agri-food sector, the automotive sector and the energy sector. It's the five main priorities. If you have a priority within five hundred abstentions for ten months in the parliamentary commission to study the funds, please send them back because I can assure you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u14	...that I will study them in detail and, if I may, incorporate them into Galicia's priorities referred to the Central Government. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u15	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Knight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u16	Mr. Feijóo, the policy of self-compromising, auto-bombing and opacity are not good fellow travelers in order to meet the challenge of Galicia's reactivation. [[Applause]] From the very first moment, you've crafted a strategy of escape forward that you continue today, a new rocket. First there were seven, then there were one hundred six, then three hundred fifty-four, now there are five priority axes, and every day they are releasing different projects into a disillusioned, unbiased, unbiased strategy of a government that in all these years of management in Galicia has neither had economic policy nor had industrial policy, nor had policy guidance from the productive model. And it's known in Galicia, because when you point out that the People's Party has made a big deal in defending expanding policies, you admit that you were a problem, Mr. Feijóo. The People's Party was a problem in triggering European funds in Europe and also here in Spain, and enabling expanding public spending policies to deal with the economic crisis arising from the pandemic. And it was the progressive government in Spain that set out a pattern that changed the issues, which made Spain reach 19% of the funds that will be distributed from that type of approach, while the population we have in Spain is much smaller as a percentage of the European Union. A government that has done it well, that has allowed it to reach the budgets already this year 20 billion euros that are being managed through co-governance between the state and the communities. And the PP was also an obstacle to getting that possibility of spending from the very first moment. You lack legitimacy, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] But I want to say more: the parliamentary committee you refer to was a committee in which you chose to hide European projects, not try to work in those areas. And now he's still in the bot smoking policy, trying to confuse himself by talking about a lot of recipes that, in the end, show that you're not able to manage Galicia's reactivation. After all these kinds of resolutions that you have made in the Commission of Reactivation, I ask the Greeks and the Greeks after all the work of the Reactivation Commission, in which the People's Party applied its wheel and remained only in its legacy strategy of the cuts: what are the major changes that have been made to the Greeks and the Greeks?, where are the great steps that you can tell the Greeks and the Greeks that you are making with more than one billion euros extraordinary this year? You have to change economic policy, you have to do industrial policy, Mr Feijóo. And European funds are also a way to reactivate industry in Galicia. His balance is terrible in industrial matters in Galicia. In twelve years of government, companies fell everywhere, the ones with the highest reference. He gave Pemex's fiasco as a great announcement. And by the way, we lost companies like Caramelo, like Alfageme, like Pescanova, like Portico, like Isobat, like Gamesa Siemens...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u18	Now there's a crisis in Ence, there's a crisis in Ferroatlantics, there's a crisis in the Navy, there's a crisis in so many places, and you have an economic advisor who the competitions are most of the PP, who when they tell him about the problems of the Greeks, instead of being sensitive, get nervous and rebutted to the opposition, when what they have to do is to govern and respond to industrial problems by using European funds to modernise the economy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u20	And I mean, Mr. Feijóo, to make a reference today too to the industrial policy of the Union when a company like Vestas has just announced a closure. Stop escaping and putting responsibilities outside the board, because if you don't have any responsibility, if you don't assume any competition, if when there's problems, you never have a solution, it's better to say that you can't rule...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u21	Thank you, Mr. Knight. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u22	...and those who give them the responsibilities they rule in Galicia, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u23	Thank you. The closure of this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u24	Mr. Knight, to rule Galicia we must win the elections. It's impossible to rule Galicia by losing elections like you. [[Laughter]] Sometimes, I think you think you're at the Congress of Deputies, and sometimes I don't think you have any more objective than trying to be the head general of the central government. This is not the case, Your Honor. You are the general secretary of the Socialist Party in Galicia, and should be somewhat respectful, firstly, of the truth; secondly, of the workers who are about to go to the street for their industrial policies, and thirdly, not to confuse people. Ladies and gentlemen, the criteria for the allocation of funds, the hedged funds, the RACT funds, all the funds, are separate from the criterion of self-financing, and you have transferred Galicia EUR 610 million less than we are. Why? Because they transferred Catalonia and other autonomous communities to the money that belongs to us. So, when you come here assuming funds, what funds? But, Your Honor, if the funds are European, if the funds are not Spanish. If you've received funds and you have a historical debt, and it turns out that they come here pretending to transfer funds that are owed and that you don't generate them. A little respect, first of all, for the truth! The Parliamentary Commission, five hundred opaque proposals. But if you didn't oppose either. European funds, Your Honor. This is about the Central Government. [[Mr. Núñez Feijóo raises a book to which the leaves pass.]] All these funds are referred to all and to every minister of the Government of Spain and to the President of the Government of Spain. Right now, answers, zero. So when we're told we don't think about it. On 23 October, I referred the proposals to the President of the Government on extract, and on 28 May to all the Ministers for the candidacy of Galicia to European funds. This is it, Your Honor. You'll see there's nothing extract or nothing opaque; it's impossible to have an opacity of more than one hundred twenty pages. [[Mr. Núñez Feijó is showing the previous book to the House.]] But, Your Honor, when you try to confuse projects with strategic ones, it's at least surprising; at least you should keep a certain criterion. You say he's a university professor of economics, that they have to do with those strategic axes with the projects that make them up. Galician transformation pole: 3,300 million, 29,000 jobs. The automobile pole: 1,300 million euros, 900 jobs. So a total of more than 13 million and more than 30,000 jobs. You say priority must be given; we agree. Do you have any priorities, any proposals? I formally invite the Socialist Party to give priority to what its proposals are to try to contrast them with those of the Government and try to prioritize and succeed. Does it seem to you that we are not trying to listen to the opposition, even if it is the smallest opposition in Parliament? I think so. I understand that the Socialist Party of Galicia is now at last busy. But I can assure you that I'm only occupied with Galicia's interests. Do we give answers that are necessary to overcome the pandemic waves? The answer is yes. Do we give answers necessary to start school normally? The answer is yes. Do we give an answer to defending the industries attacked by the central government's fragile energy policies? You defend them, and we obviously criticize them, and we don't share them. And we're going to fight your industrial policies. [[Applause]] If they want to give, Your Honor, the doors are open. Now, if you want to go on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u26	...with their fights the doors are closed. Be careful, Mr. Caballero, because I see that there is a member in your group who, as it seems, does not have much future in the Socialist Party, wants to move on to the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u28	No, no. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry! Based on what article do you ask me for the word? [[Murmurs.]] Sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u29	...what respect and defend as president of this parliament the dignity of parliamentary groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u30	No, no, sorry!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u31	Sorry! [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] I didn't understand what it was. I don't know. But I just don't know what came up with this question. I don't know what the offense was. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] I didn't understand what the offense was. You'll have to forgive, but I don't know what the offense was. I didn't perceive any offense to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] These assessments are made by the Presidency. I didn't perceive any offense to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Caballero Miguez utters words that are not perceived.]] We're done. It's over. I'm not giving you the floor right now and you can't turn on the microphone. Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u32	Question from the spokesperson of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms. Ana Pontón Mondelo. Mr. President of the Galician Union of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, asked about measures to defend Galician interests before the Government of the State
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u33	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, in a complex and critical moment, Galicia needs a government as never before to see for the general interest. But what we have is a president who moves between submission to Genoa and futile confrontation with the Government of the State, using Galicia as a partisan weapon in favour of the PP and the economic lobbyies friends of the People's Party. And there are just the examples: you don't defend Galicia when you give up direct management of European funds and you don't have a strategy for us to receive up to the last euro we've got. You don't defend Galicia when you refuse to ask the state for Alcoa's public intervention, leaving in the air the future of a region. Either you don't defend Galicia when it allows discrimination against the Coruña port and does not claim forgiveness of debt with the Valencian motive. He doesn't defend Galicia to the state and sells Galicia to the economic lobby. You sell Galicia when you get to the side of the board of directors of Once instead of working for the transfer of the factory. Sells Galicia when before the beam of light embraces the electrics, pushes a predatory wind boom and votes against a Welsh electric tariff to disrupt the bill. [[Applause]] And sells Galicia when she looks elsewhere in front of the scam of AP-9's beaches and says, "It's things from the past." That's what you call 1,091 million euros illegally charged to the Greeks and to the Greeks since 2013. [[Applause]] You know why? For the illegal enlargements of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. The last twenty-five-year extension was a gift from Mr. Aznar, who also privatized the balance price to AP-9. [[Applause]] And do you know who was the Territorial Policy Advisor for Privatization? Alberto Núñez Feijóo. [[Applause]] So, Alcoa, the swindler of light, the predatory wind boom, illegal beaches, this is how you sell Galicia and rule in favor of the party's friendly economic lobbyies. And this has consequences, Mr Feijóo: industrial desertification, emigration, job destruction, demographic crisis and loss of political and economic weight. Finally, an increasingly small Galician one with fewer opportunities. But since the BNG we're not going to allow Galicia's future to be mortgaged because we're a great country with potential, talent and working people. That's why we ask you today what you're going to do to defend Galicia's interests before the state. And I hope, Mr. Feijóo, that for once, instead of looking for guilty, bring solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u36	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I think that to defend Galicia, if the Greeks could be in the control sessions, they would easily realize who defends Galicia and who makes demagogy using Galicia. The BNG, as always, says that all the blame for what happens in Galicia is for the Unity of Galicia and the Socialist Government of Madrid. The Socialist Party says we do not create or confront because we are specialists in political conflicts with the Government of Madrid. At the end of the control session, the Socialist Party and the BNG continue to work together, rule together, agree together, and therefore laugh together with the Greeks. [[Applause]] But, of course, Your Honor, we will continue to defend Galicia, firstly, because we are firmly demanding what is our responsibility; secondly, because we are proposing institutional loyalty to the Government of Spain, which is our government, and thirdly, Your Honor, because we propose alternatives. What seems reasonable is that you ask your partners for a little dignity, and you also use a little dignity as responsible for the Galician Nationalist Block. We heard her talk about Alcoa, Vestas, the naval sector, the price of light, even of Ence. Do you come here to speak on behalf of the workers of Ence? Do you come here to defend the families of Ence? [[A Member delivered: No.]] Why don't you listen to the families of Ence? Why don't you listen to the workers of that company? Why do you just make fun of these people using Ence as a claim against the Galician Union, when we are the only ones who stand up for the workers of Alcohol, Vestas, Gamesa, Siemens and Ence? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, the key to defending the Greeks is not to lie to the Greeks. The first lie, the first mantra, the first slogan, which you've been talking about for years now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When they were in the government, they didn't talk about the electric fare. But, of course, you're talking about the rate of electricity that doesn't exist, you're talking about the rate of electricity from Galicia. Why don't you ask your partners from the Galician Socialist Party what you think? Why don't you ask your deputy presidents, your Socialist Party mayors? Your Honor, another one of the lies: you're talking about the financing system and the planning of a concert for Galicia. Another lie. All economic experts in funding, both university and non-university, believe that the concert system is bad for Galicia, and we can lose more than a billion euros. The third lie: it is not true that the wind sector devotes itself to predation without environmental guarantees; of course not. See: 77,5 % of the territory of Galicia cannot be put on any windmill, 77,5 %; zero mills have been installed by 2020; and by 2021 there can be five wind farms. We've been reporting negatively forty-seven wind projects handled by the Government of Spain, that is, the Socialist Party, that is, by its partner. Third lie. Fourth lie, Ence. How many lies are there? If you've been in government for four years and you were giving them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u38	...declarations of environmental impact favourable to follow the company. Where are they? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, these are the nationalistic lies. And that's why you should ask yourself, "Why don't the Greeks vote for the BNG and not give it a chance to rule?" [[Laughter]] Oh, laugh! Oh, well, if you're very happy... continue with that percentage of votes without a doubt, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] If the Greeks who vote for this parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u40	...with 48% of the votes, they're less than the Greeks who vote for the BNG, with 18% of the votes, so, Your Honor, I'm not surprised that this is another lie than you laugh at. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, Your Honor... [[Applause]] Look, there's a problem, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u41	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u42	...I don't have the nerve to come here complaining about the Socialist Party's behavior and get out of here ruling from the hook with the Socialist Party. I'm not going to have that boldness. And what they achieve is that of the parliamentary sessions: to defend the interests of the BNG, but not those of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u44	And I'm here to defend Galician interests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u45	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u46	That's why, Your Honor, I owe only Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u47	Thank you, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u48	Nothing else. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u49	Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u50	Mr. Feijóo, do you know why the Greeks and the Greeks can't see what's going on in this parliament? Because you've been preventing these full-time broadcasts and manipulating the TVG for 12 years. Because he doesn't want his demagogy to be seen. [[Applause]] And look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u51	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u52	And, Mr. Feijóo, I do not question the democratic legitimacy of your government. You're BNG's yes. We are here for the work and grace of the Holy Spirit, aren't we, Mr. Feijóo? We're the second political force, because more and more Germans and Greeks voted BNG. [[Applause]] And what we ask you, Mr. Feijóo, is that you assume your responsibilities and govern, stop coming here looking for culprits and give them solutions to the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because it's no good for you to come here with that crism, with that nervousness... yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] I think you have two problems: one that seems to be intolerant to the democratic debate and one that doesn't like to be told the truth. Well, of course, BNG will keep telling him all the truth. [[Applause]] Look, it's with the canteen if we support the Government of Sánchez. Yeah, you know why we support the government of Sánchez? Because the alternative to that government was a more ultra PP government, of crocheting with the extreme right, in coalition with the extreme right. That's the government you defend. [[Applause]] And laughing at the gales and the gales is to criticize the BNG investment agreement, which, among other things, has achieved a historical discount on AP-9's beaches, and the next day wants to hang up that medal as Mr. Feijóo did. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's just to laugh at the Galicians and the Greeks. [[Applause]] And there are many differences between the People's Party and the BNG. BNG gets down at AP-9, PP gets the Welsh and the Welsh to pay illegally for twenty-five years the AP-9 tolls. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's a difference between the People's Party and the BNG. Another difference is also on the electric theme, actually. BNG defends a Welsh electric tariff, because we have the right to a lower price of light to compensate for damage and because that's what happens in European countries. The BNG, Mr. Feijóo, would never allow the cheers to be emptied so that the electricians would do business in the middle of the light. And the BNG, Mr. Feijóo, would not allow the sanctions to be lowered by that fact. [[Applause]] That's the difference between the BNG and the People's Party. [[Applause]] But there is more, Mr. Feijóo: I will never be embraced by the electric lobby as you have done with Mr. President of Iberdrola. [[Applause]] And -- I'm finished now -- as you're still installed in short-term politics and if we don't give solutions to the Greeks and the Greeks, we want to leave here today proposals for the future that would be good for you to collect your government, because they're important to give this country a future: The first is, taking that path which has opened up the European Commission, to demand the end of the concession of AP-9 and its gratuitousness and, of course, to put an end to illegal enlargements which have granted us governments of the PP and PSOE. Secondly, Alcoa's public intervention, with participation also from the Union, to ensure the future of a marine region, which is becoming an industrial desert. Third -- yes --, defends a Welsh electric tariff. We will bring that debate back to the general political debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u54	Fourth, Mr. Feijóo, because he made here today a defense of the predator wind boom that clearly defines it. Fourth, to put an end to that policy of predatory wind boom, to respect rural people, to respect the environment, and, above all, to make the energy that will be produced by the windmills that are installed in our country serve something more than to fill the benefits of those electricians who are swindling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u56	...to the people of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u58	Mr. Feijóo, we do not criticise you as President of the Union, what we criticise is that you do not govern, which is the mandate given to you by the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u59	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u60	Stop looking for excuses and put yourself in front of the country at such a critical moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u61	Thank you, your time is up. Close this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as the broadcast is concerned, I'm here seeing how you're still intervening, because there's a gap of seconds between a Member's intervention and the direct one. All control sessions are retransmitted, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You should know, but if you also think about it, what are we going to do with it? If you can even say that the sittings of Parliament are closed and do not retransmit, you can say what you want. Like, for example, saying we didn't do anything with AP-9. What do you mean, Your Honor? If we're the only party that ever asked for the transfer of AP-9, and you voted against the transfer of AP-9. What do you mean, Your Honor? As we didn't do anything with AP-9, Your Honor, if when you were in the government and I was on the opposition scene, and you saw how the Bipartite agreed with the Socialist Party in Madrid that the Greeks would pay 50% of the decrease in the payout of Rande and Barcala, which meant 400 million euros of money from the Unity of Galicia to fund a bonus of a fee from a state highway, we voted that no, and you voted that yes, in all, the Socialist Party and the BNG? [[Applause]] But what's this joke, Your Honor? The only government who denounced that convention was this government, and this government stopped paying. And do you know what the Government of Spain, the Socialist Government did? Condemn us. Let's see what the judges say, but I, of course, refuse to pay with the money of the Greeks a drop from a state highway as did the BNG and the Socialist Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, how can we not defend the country? If we stay alone in the claim of VAT debt, which is 210 million euros that we owe. And we had to go to the Supreme Court, and they gave us the reason. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And now the Government of Spain pays us what it owes us and tells us it makes a lot of transfers this year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, Your Honor, what are you talking about? Of Alcoa? We said the sale of Alcoa in Coruña would lead to the company's breakdown, and Alu Iberica is broken. And you were quiet. And we're saying and we're still saying that while there's not a competitive electric tariff for hyper-electrointensives, Alcoa will be in permanent crisis and about to close. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the Socialist Party and its partners were silent. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, there are some Members of yours who are making me gestures to speak to the BNG. But speaking to the Socialist Party is talking to the BNG. But it must be decided, Your Honor: either with Galicia or with the Socialist Party. [[Laughter]] You can't, Your Honor, fool everyone at all times. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, what if we're electric friends? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Government of the Bipartite: nine files, amounting to EUR 97,000, which it claimed. Our government: 3,200 electrical files amounting to 26 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Pontón, you've been standing up as the only defenders of Galicia ever since. But it turns out that most of the Greeks vote for us. Defender Galicia is not always acting with destructive spirit. To every advance we propose, a criticism; to every proposal we propose, an insult, and to every claim we propose, a door. Is this really a nationalist party or is it just a closed party in its own ideology, that if you don't agree with it you don't defend the country and you don't succeed in any proposal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u64	I know you're a systematic party. Systematic to any proposal that doesn't come from BNG. Systematic in his relationship with the independentists. Don't I know why you're laughing? [[Murmurs.]] I see Bildu, the Republican Left and the BNG on the paper, and I feel absolutely upset as a Welshman, of course. [[Laughter]] And systematic -- that's right -- your vote in favour of the Socialist Party always. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u65	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks need an opposition, of course; a leader of the opposition... could only ask the president a question, and the Socialist Party and the BNG asked the president a question of control. [[Murmurs.]] That's a joke, isn't it? I asked my group not to ridicule... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u68	...that the opposition is you. But I don't know what to laugh about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u69	Finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u70	If I spent four years here in the opposition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u71	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u72	...to see the questions asked by the spokesman of the Socialist Party and the BNG to the president of the Union, control session!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u73	Your time is over, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, what joke is this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u75	Thank you, your time is over, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u76	Look, the Greeks don't need a systematic opposition to the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u77	President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u78	...the Greeks need systematic support for Galicia, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u79	We continue with the non-law proposition... [[Murmurs.]] Please, we have to continue with the full. Those who want to go out, but please quietly; if they do not hinder the normal functioning of the plenary. Proposal for a non-law of G. P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Churches and nine other Members, on the demand by the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain for the establishment of bonuses in the beaches of the State highway AP-53
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u80	The motion for a non-law has tabled an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u81	Mr. Diego Calvo has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u82	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Congratulations on your saint and Mr. Prado Patiño, as well as Mr. Tellado. Today we bring a matter to this chamber, an initiative to talk about the beaches of the Welsh highways. It is true that over the last few months, over the last few years, we could even say during the last few legislates, we have brought to this chamber different initiatives to talk about the peaxe of AP-9, Galicia's main channel of communication. We have been able among the three parliamentary groups to adopt a draft transfer law, which has moved to the Congress of Deputies. The last one was very recently, and I had the honour along with Mrs. Pontón and Mr. Knight of power to defend him at the Congress of Deputies. Then we can talk about this matter too and about the once again change of opinion of the Socialist Party, and what the Socialist Party wants and how it says something here and there in Madrid. But, in the end, Mr Bará, what we are talking about is political will, political will that fails the Socialist Party and also the Galician Nationalist Block, because we just saw it with that project of what we were talking about as a transfer and the amendments that the BNG presented, which, of course, was none. But so far we could talk about any matter, this lack of political will, the closure of industries, the increase in the price of light, the increase in taxes that citizens bear, the amendment of the Rules of the Law of Back... and in every one of these matters the decisions made by the Socialist Party, supported by its partners in the Nationalist Block Galego, seriously prejudice Galicia at a time when all administrations should sum up efforts and row together to get out of a complicated situation. Well, today we are talking about the AP-53 fees, and we want to ask for the support of the Members of this House to apply for a reduction in the rates of this motorway. First, because today is Galicia's most expensive highway; the 45-kilometre return route is 12 euros. Second, because the alternative to this highway, N-525, has a limitation to the speed of 50 km/h in most of the sections. And third, because in addition to that N-525 cross urban areas with intense traffic. I therefore believe that there is sufficient reason to focus on the shores of this motorway. In peripheral territories, such as Galicia, the existence of highways of toll negatively conditions the economy of families and also of businesses, which are reduced to their competitiveness, because their displacements are longer and, in addition, more expensive. It's true that now we'll have the downside on AP-9, that's true. After many months of ads, after many months of never knowing when it was going to happen, through the unlocking. We used to hear it was thanks to the Block, thanks to the PSOE. It is true that what is governing is the Socialist Party, and it is also true that the meeting between the president and the former Minister of Development was able to unlock the benefits of the fees. And it's true that once these bonuses were implemented, and after two months and peak of application, we found that what we thought at first was true, because they didn't meet the expectations created, nor did they respond to the needs of users. First of all, because they don't get the counties that talked so much here about 63 million euros collected in budgets; it's going to be 20 % lower. And secondly, because the expectations that a large part of the users, such as heavy-duty vehicle users, have been reduced, will not unfortunately contribute to getting trucks and heavy-duty vehicles out of conventional roads. But in any case they're there, and they're doing something cheaper on the highway than Galicia's vertebrae from north to south. Now, as it couldn't be otherwise, we have to demand that the performances be completed and that there also be reductions in the Santiago-Dozon section of the AP-53 motorway, which will vertebrate the inner area of our community. It's fair to demand it from this chamber, just as it is fair for the state government to approve these bonuses on which is the highway, today, more expensive than Galicia and one of Spain's most expensive. Although we're starting work with AP-9, because it's the way the Atlantic façade is vertebrate when we connect 60% of the population, we know it's just as urgent as it's in AP-53. That is why we have come to demand the support of this chamber for this initiative. The territorial imbalance suffered by Galicia in the matter of beaches also affects this state highway, key in the communications between Ourense and Santiago and essential for the municipalities and the people it connects, such as Vedra, Silleda, Lalin, Dozón, Piñor, etc. The alternative -- as we said -- to this payment route supports a great intensity of traffic, heavy traffic, few third-party deals to facilitate the advance of trucks and crosses many populations. So the initiative we bring is a social demand, because there is a repeated request to various municipalities governed by different parties, in which the Government of Spain is called for a reduction in the rates of AP-53. We must bear in mind that the users of this motorway do not now, nor have they ever, any kind of bonus, even if they are recurrent users. They don't have any help from either the concessionary company, nor from the infrastructure-owner administration, nor from the usual users, nor from the carriers, nor from numerous families. They can't benefit from any kind of discount. And -- as I said -- even the concessionary company doesn't have any kind of compensation or downsizing for users, as you did at the time to AP-9 with the travels back. Precisely that aggravation towards the users of this highway is what we intend to correct with this initiative, that is, to start as we did with the Atlantic motorway an offensive from this Welsh camera to claim bonuses on the central highway of Galicia. We are confident that the initiative we bring the debate will achieve the unanimous backing of this camera and end with contempt and ill-treatment of the users of AP-53. But the truth is, if I'm honest with you, I have little confidence, because, given what's happened with the AP-9 Transfer Act, we can expect little of the parties that make up this camera. I'd ask them to trust, to support the lowering of the beaches of this highway, because it's necessary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u83	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u84	Thank you, President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the People's Party and the Galician People's Parliamentary Group have two blocks of initiatives, because in their offices they will have two blocks: one that they present when they don't rule in Madrid, and one that they do when they rule in Madrid. And today it's up to us to retrieve a theme that the People's Party there in 2009 had brought to this chamber as well, then Mariano Rajoy's governments arrived and put them in a drawer, and now they're recovering this bonus from the AP-53 fees. But for more than six and a half years of Mariano Rajoy's rule, they said absolutely nothing about it. And then the People's Party ruled in Moncloa, and it could have certainly done that bonus in the peas of AP-53, which now the Welsh People's Parliamentary Group brings the debate to this chamber. [[Applause]] The truth is that Mr Calvo said that it is a matter of political will. It's the political will you have when you have no responsibilities in Madrid. Because you're the most pessimistic party in history right now, it's all about criticizing and criticizing. They criticized that those bonuses didn't arrive at the AP-9 beach, and right now Mr. Calvo even said they're already but they're insufficient. So we're going to compare the AP-9 bonuses as well as the bonuses that the government puts in the highways that are of their competence. But just to give you a data, Mr. Calvo: in the first month of putting into operation this bonus of AP-9 peas, the Greeks and the Greeks saved EUR 3.4 million. And that was thanks to a socialist government. [[Applause]] And that was thanks to the general budgets of the state, which both the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block voted against. And that's what made it come true that these bonuses could be carried out in AP-9. Mr. Calvo was talking about AP-9, but there's a mouse the president of the Galician board was saying, he always says you can't miss the truth in this camera, but he's come to say, "We're the only ones we ask for the AP-9 transfer." I was kidding, wasn't I? Because you were the ones who for a long time had the presidency of the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, blocked this debate taking into account this transfer. And now to come to talk about this is to totally miss the reality of the facts. [[Applause]] It's just that he also said that now the Government of Spain -- said the president of the Galician Union -- called on the Galician Union for the theme of AP-9. But it's because you miss the truth again, because you know it was a court ruling that made the Central Government claim those amounts to board. You know that the concessionaire company has filed an appeal against a decision that was not taken by a socialist minister, was taken by a People's Party minister. So it's enough to lie and lie in this camera. Mr. Calvo, bonuses on AP-9 fees: discount for all users of light vehicles, every day of the year, including Sundays and holidays, the twenty-four hours of the day; return trips are free, whenever they take place within twenty-four hours; additional discount on Vigo-Tui; discount on recurring customers; on heavy vehicles discount of 20%, without conditions on all frames; free access of Roundla... this is what the Socialist Party does when ruling. And what did the People's Party do? Nothing, they didn't do anything about AP-9. And we have already brought initiatives to this chamber, which, by the way, the People's Parliamentary Group voted against, in which we also ask for subsidies for self-employed self-employed people, AG-55, who, by the way, was born free and free, and then you put on the toll. We asked for those bonuses for AG-55 and AG-57, and you voted against it. Because it's true, they have bonuses, but they're much lower than the central government applies to AP-9. In AG-55 and AG-57, you get 100 percent bonus on your return trip. To whom? To numerous families. Are all families in Galicia? No, immigrants in AP-9 apply to all vehicles, the difference between what they do in AG-55 and AG-57, which for families not numerous -- the vast majority of the Greeks and the Greeks -- apply 25% off on the first round trip, and 50% on the following trips, in addition to applying that 50% bonus on nighttime. That's why we're presenting today this amendment of adding that we say the self-government applies on these highways -- in AG-55 and AG-57 -- the same bonuses that the Government of Spain applies on AP-9. I understand, therefore, that they should have no problem accepting our amendment, which is also going like an amendment to add. [[Applause]] Because if Mr. Calvo said it's time to talk about the AP-53 bonuses, it's also time that AG-55 and AG-57 have the same discounts and the same bonuses as AP-9. We will then see the political will of the People's Party, if I am the one who is the People's Parliamentary Group to convince the Union to implement those same bonuses. Because you were talking about AP-53, that's what they thought and brought in this initiative. The truth is, they're not comparable. The traffic intensity in AP-9 in 2019 was 24,405 daily vehicles, the average daily traffic intensity. An average daily intensity of 6,988 was moved in the AP-53 in 2019. So 6,988 versus 24,405. We do not oppose the request of the Central Government to apply similar bonuses -- as you ask in your initiative -- to which they are being applied in AP-9. In fact, fellow members of our party, specifically the Companions of the PSOE of Ourense, took this initiative to the Provincial Deputy of Ourense. So we're not opposed to asking for these bonuses for AP-53. What we have to do is ask the Government of Spain to do so, we also ask the Government of the Council of Galicia, that is to say, those who are of their competence also apply these bonuses. Then -- I repeat -- we see the political will, because it's also the time for the Union to place these districts that affect AG-55 and AG-57 on equal terms with respect to other territories of Galicia. It's time to make life easier and more comfortable for your neighbors and your neighbors, thus also promoting proximity tourism, economic recovery of them, so necessary at the moment we are living. It's time to move forward towards a model where each Welshman and every Welshman can move through all of the Welsh ways, regardless of their level of income. That's why we don't oppose what you ask today in this initiative. It must also be remembered that the Greek Government has funds and competences to reduce fees that are a burden and a burden that hinders the transport and mobility of Greek citizenship. If the German Government has so much political will -- as Mr. Calvo said -- it can also use autonomic funds to apply them to these bonuses, even if they are self-directed by state competition, because we saw as other autonomous communities themselves that they are applying their autonomous funds to subsidize autonomic highways, as long as they are to improve the lives of their neighbours and neighbours. So we don't oppose the initiative that the PP brings today. Today they're not ruling in Madrid, they're recovering those initiatives from the past, which for six and a half years they've put in a drawer, and we're not opposed. But we think it's also time for the Galician board to take a step forward and also apply the same bonuses in AG-55 and AG-57 that apply in AP-9. And I think it's time because since the People's Party they have a big debt with the Greeks and the Greeks. Now they're talking about how those bonuses were achieved at the AP-9 fees thanks to the Government of Galician Union. But I just want to remind them -- and I won't get tired of saying -- that it was the People's Party that extended that concession until 2048, that it was the People's Party that privatized that highway afterwards. So now they get involved, they also exercise their powers. I think it's very good to place duties on the Government of the State, but also on those highways that are within the competence of the Council of Galicia, I think it's time to implement that political will that Mr. Calvo so presumed and apply the same ones that are applying to AP-9 to AG-55 and AG-57. We don't have any problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u86	...and so we did by presenting an amendment to add, to support the initiative today brought by the People's Parliamentary Group. For our part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u88	Thank you, President. I wanted to ask you, Mr President, to clarify a matter for me, because I saw on the subject of the agenda that was an initiative on AP-53. And here, the truth is, Mr. Diego Calvo was left five minutes; he must have spent half a minute or a minute on AP-53. So, I don't know if he got shot in the ass here today in this debate, Mr. Calvo. Because it seems to me a disrespect that you didn't say anything about AP-53 here. [[Applause]] And I'll talk about it. Well, first of all, we really want to welcome you to the defense of the reduction of the fees; "better late than never," he says. We're glad they're asking for a reduction in rates in AP-53, but the bad thing is that they didn't fall before the horse, that they didn't fall from the horse when they were ruling in Madrid, and when they could approve this reduction in rates. And I'll remind them of the hemerotheca, the damn hemerotheca. He said the spokesperson for the People's Party in Lalin in 2013, such a -- I don't know if they're alone -- Román Rodríguez: the PP votes against BNG's proposal to reduce 50% of the fees, because it's unfair. We've created the problem, but that solves it who has to solve it. This is the reality that you bring us here a GNP that says: "Galice has a comparative aggravating of road infrastructures with respect to other autonomous communities for the beaches of the highways." And, of course, you talk about the consequences but you don't talk about the causes. Why does Galicia suffer this distress? I want to tell you: I suffer from the governments of the People's Party, among other things, who have been ruling fourteen years in the last twenty-five years and who have imposed these abusive sins. And you're also responsible for the Cambalache, the real Cambalache of the AP-9 contuberance. And this deserves a separate piece that speaks of the extensions of the 20-year grant by the PSOE and twenty-five-year grant by the People's Party, which has violated European procurement rules which have resulted in this procedure by the European Commission. And the BNG will, of course, bring the initiatives to this parliament to demand responsibilities, to demand compensation and also to demand the end of the concession. And I'm glad you're here to talk to us about transfers and tell us that others say something here and the opposite of Madrid. But how do they look so expensive? If we unanimously approve here until three times the transfer of AP-9, we take it to Madrid and it was you who vetted it three times at the Congress Bureau, and also with reports from the government of Mr. Rajoy and Mrs. Ana Pastor. [[Applause]] How dare they come here? [[Applause]] And now they're putting back poles on the wheels with the amendments that they presented both the other group, the two; we have to talk about everything. You come here to exercise parliamentary filibusterism, because you are the most responsible for the AP-53 situation. You gave the concession of AP-53 in 1999 for seventy-five years, which is the legal maximum; you, Mr Aznar's People's Party. You are also responsible for having the most expensive third of the state's toll; the third Silleda-Lalín is the most expensive in the Spanish state. You are responsible for all those fourteen years that have been ruling that it is the only highway without discounts on tele-payments, the only one. And you're also in charge -- because you've been ruling in Madrid and you haven't done anything -- that you have connections for real corridors, like the connection of the exit and the flag access, which is embarrassing. Of course, you're saying that Galicia suffers a pain in the skin, but I ask them, why didn't they get rid of them when they ruled in Madrid? They didn't remove them because, as Mr. Román Rodríguez said very well, the PP has created the problem, but the solution has to be taken who has to take it. And he also said, the fares on the highway are consistent with the scale of the work, the total free doesn't exist, but there's freedom, and whoever doesn't want to pay can go to the N-525. Of course, the road to pay for the rich and the poor who go to the N-525. That's the policy of the People's Party. [[Applause]] They spoke clearly, for the first time they spoke clearly. [[Applause]] The real reason is that you rule in the service of the companies that spoil our country; in the service of Iberdrola, in the service of Ence, in the service of Abanca, in the service of Globalvia. And you, the People's Party and the Union, are the Trojan horse of the Ibex multinationals. By the way, the multinationals of the Ibex, who are going to meet today in that shameful contuberance of Toxa, because it is "The Toxa", "The Toja" does not exist. Respect our language!, respect our official toponymy! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Do you know who the concessionaire of AP-53, the concessionaire of AP-9, the concessionaire of AG-55, the concessionaire of AG-57, that is, of all the highways and motorways of toll in Galicia? Globally owned investment funds, pension funds from Canada, the United Kingdom and also from the Netherlands. Those are the companies you protect. And the difference is that BNG has been denouncing the discrimination of the Ten and also of Ourense for these abusive sins of AP-53. We took him to the city halls, brought him to this parliament... by the way, in 2015 we brought him here and you voted against the 50% reduction in the rates of AP-9 and AP-53. We have denounced the discrimination suffered by people and businesses in these parts of the country, which need to reverse these pitfalls and discrimination. Because it's a trap for people's mobility, it's a trap for the competitiveness of businesses, and it's also a serious difficulty for road safety and the quality of life as well as for all people living around N-525, which has an average intensity of more than 10,000 vehicles per day and which crosses a lot of population nuclei, inhabited areas and urban areas. And you've been supporting, allowing, consenting and keeping these abusive AP-53 peas. And now the People's Party comes to us with a kind of theory... well, first, with a Matrix theory, inventing lies. Because Mr. Feijóo said here that the whole of this parliament was indeed being broadcast. But what we told him is that they didn't broadcast through the TVG, because you watched the broadcast through the Galician Television of these debates. I'm not surprised at anything after what happened today that they don't want to be seen by the TVG. [[Applause]] And since we're told that the BNG didn't claim the return of the EVI seems to us to be unfeasible, because we came here asking them to file an appeal long before they did. That's the reality, and you didn't support it. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] And, of course, now you bring the theory -- yes, make signs that I'm going to tell you the same thing, don't worry -- about the omnipresence and the omnipotence of BNG; BNG has to be everywhere and has to solve all the problems. And you know what we're saying? Not all of them, but some of us will solve them, because, at the moment, thanks to BNG, reductions in AP-9 fees have been applied after decades of ups and downs. It was thanks to BNG, who brought this negotiation to Madrid. [[Applause]] And we don't say that. [[Applause]] Also, by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, it is a Government document by Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who said in this presentation of the fulfilment that was negotiated according to the BNG the lowering of the fees. So don't come here with stories. Mr. Pedro Sánchez said so. Of course, the conclusion is clear: BNG is the guarantee of the defence of Galicia's interests. And how we get the downsizing of AP-9's peas, we're also fighting for transfer, for a lot of sticks on the wheels they're putting on, as well as both AP-9's and AP-53's. We're going to fight for the end of those abusive beaches on AP-9 and AP-53. We are going to fight against all the shrimps, against all the crooks and all the scams, such as those illegal enlargements of the concessions, such as the illegal conventions that were made in 2011, 2013 and 2018 the successive governments. And the big difference -- I'm finished now -- is that BNG hugs Galicia, and this brings us savings for people's pockets, which pay less for the costs. And the PP hugs Iberdrola, Abanca, Pemex, Ence, with those who spy on Galicia. The conclusion is that Feijó's embraces are very expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u89	Thank you, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u90	For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Calvo Pouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u91	As bad as you came here to talk about AP-53, I liked this tone more than that, Mrs. Otero! The truth is, you're doing a hard job. You come here to criticize that the reduction of the fees that is made in AP-53 and AP-55 is not right. And it comes as a presumption of the reduction in the rates of AP-9. I think the reduction in AP-9 fees is good, it's true. But what is it about, or what is the final interest of citizens?, what do they pay for circulating or putting more and different possibilities for discounts? I suppose the interesting thing when you face a cabin to pay the fee is to know how much it will cost you. And do you know which is cheaper or more expensive? Do you know that AP-55 or AP-57 are cheaper than AP-9 after applying all the fees that were placed on the table? That doesn't know. He wants to keep cheating. Of course, I think that's important, it's not seeing the different possibilities that the toll has to reduce. No, what matters is how much you have to pay per mile. For miles, it's cheaper than the German highways. But there's another fundamental difference: on the highways in Greece we've been applying discounts for ten years! And they keep coming out much cheaper. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] It's a pity that when you were talking about the AP-9 transfer, don't tell and don't explain to this camera, you and your spokesman who was there with me defending the AP-9 transfer, because the Socialist Party has introduced the amendments to that bill that they're supposed to change everything that's said in this camera, which they assume we're not talking about the AP-9 transfer now, we're talking about they can have management. I mean, they can decide if a signal has to be changed, whether a lifeguard is upset or whether it's time to rub the edges of the highway. Why does the Socialist Party continue to preach to Pedro Sánchez again and again, Mr. Knight? Why do you act as a CEO instead of acting as a representative of a political party representing the House? [[Applause]] Besides, he went to Congress and said the opposite of what he now did his party. You don't have any weight in Madrid? Then you'll know why you do it. Mr. Bará, you say he was talking about AP-53; he spoke a lot, he spoke a lot. I'll talk like you. You said they always defended the beaches. Man, it's too bad. When you were part of the government, the Bipartite, you were a charge within the government, a decision was made to lift the fees. And the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block said that the beaches of Barcala and Rande we'll pay them all, everyone we're here and the people who've been out for so many years. You know that 400 million euros was the sum of those fees. And you agreed that Galicia had paid the fees of a national highway. That's how the Galician Nationalist Block has always been defending Galician interests. You were saying that the People's Party was defending Galicia in a hurry with the Ibex. Well, I don't know the picture you're putting on, but thanks to that picture and much safer than a company like Iberdrola is working at Fene, where a lot of people, including BNG voters, are working, BNG voters as well. [[Applause]] We're not like Sánchez, who we assume can even work. No, no, no. But look, I don't know how Galicia defends itself. Do you think he's defending Galicia by going to a photo with Bildu? Do you think Galicia is defending herself by hugging Bildu or RC? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's the way the Block defends Galicia. I'm going to tell you one thing: The Block itself that sells Galicia -- it said Mrs. Pontón today -- it sells Galicia every day. Because every time there's an aggravation with Galicia made by the Socialist Party or the Government of Sánchez, the Block looks elsewhere. And you know why, you know it's the worst of all? [[Murmurs.]] It's not like they're looking elsewhere anymore, it's the price they put to Galicia. The price they put to you is to be in the Town Councils, to be in the Deputies, it's a seat in each of those places. [[Murmurs.]] Because everything you're going through is looking somewhere else. [[Applause]] And, yes, it's PP's fault. No, people know it's not PP's fault. It's Sánchez's fault. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And he knows that the Galician Nationalist Block sells Galicia for a chair. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's actually selling Galicia, that's a little bit of a trip to Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u92	Thank you, Mr. Calvo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] After the debate on non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u93	We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Dona Noa Presas. I do not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the initiative of Da Noa Presas Bergantinos and two other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Galician Union to ensure the socialization and economic return of the benefits generated by energy production in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u94	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo. A transaction with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was pending. I don't know if it's done? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is that transaction made? I don't have... I'm sorry? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I just don't know her. Did you read that yesterday? [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Oh, perfect. Could not connect with command "%s": [[Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo: Yes.]] Well, then... you know all the groups, don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then read it again, please. It wasn't a... I think I remember -- if I didn't miss my memory -- your amendment was substitution, and you wanted to make an amendment so that it wouldn't be substitution, but it would change all the text, and then I would negotiate a transactional text. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you have that business done?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u95	We had it, we had it yesterday, and it was just taking the first part of the amendment submitted by the BNG and then as was ours. If I remember correctly, it was to fulfill exactly what was signed in the local Covenant and then exactly our amendment. But, well, I read it and, if you give me a few moments, I can read it in full again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u96	But, you see, I'm remembering, that I may fail my memory, that I'm going to celebrate years. But I'm sorry, maybe I'm not... but I'm doing a memory exercise and I think the difference was that you were asking for a year, something a year, and you weren't saying that year, or this year. You were saying this year, and Mr. Iago Tabares in his amendment didn't speak this year. I think that was the substantial difference. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u97	Really, the only thing that was added to our proposal was to start fulfilling the pact, signed within the agreements made within the local Covenant, and then as was our proposed part in the initiative presented.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u98	All right, all right. I think the substantial change is in that I'm explaining. Your amendment... If it's not a matter of taking it, which explains it, but I think he was talking about... you were talking about this year, and he wasn't talking about this year. I think. Let's see. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give a voice to Mr. Tabares' chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u99	To comply with the local Covenant and update the local Covenant before the end of the year and before hearing in consensus of the Galician Local Cooperation Commission. And I don't think it's going to distort the vote against the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u100	But your amendment... Sorry, sorry, we're gonna be... I don't know if the lawyers can look at me exactly what I was saying, I think your -- you might miss my memory -- but I think yours didn't talk about this year, I think. Have a lawyer look at him. Because that's the substantial difference to me. Maybe I'm wrong, huh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u101	Let's see, Mr. President, I'm sorry. It's just that that part stays the same as it was. We got to a transaction, we didn't accept a replacement amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u102	Perfect, then...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u103	...we simply added a first part, as I'm telling you, of that part of the amendment submitted by the BNG. And the part of us stays exactly the same as it was.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u104	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u105	I don't know if it's clear. I'm going to look for the writing right now, but I read it yesterday, I thought it was pretty clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u106	Well, of course, it changes a part... it keeps its own... and it adapts to a part of its own. That's exactly how it is. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece regarding the updating of the local Greek Pact within the Galician Commission for Local Cooperation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u107	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil. He was also awaiting a transaction with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Isn't there? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Voting of the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union to initiate the process of reversion to the public of the residences of senior public ownership and private management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 41; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u108	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Marina Ortega. We vote. Voting of the Non-Law Proposition of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marina Ortega Otero and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia to develop an intersectoral plan for the prevention of suicide. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u109	We voted for the People's Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Vázquez Domínguez. He does not accept amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting of the motion for a non-law of the People's Party of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pedro Puy Fraga and six other Members, on the demand from the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain for a study of the financial market situation from the point of view of banking concentration and the establishment of a state plan against financial exclusion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; abstentions, 34. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u110	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Calvo. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition of the People's G.P. of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Marta Nóvoa Iglesias and nine other Members, on the demand by the Council of Galicia to the Government of Spain for the establishment of bonuses in the beaches of the State highway AP-53. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u111	The votes will end here. We're still on the agenda now, interpellations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u112	There's a change, as you've already reported. Interpellation of Da Noa Susana Díaz Varela and D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, of the G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Italian Government in the field of the management of the Greek cultural heritage
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u113	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u114	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Councillor of Culture. This interpellation comes from a work of the Galician Culture Council Heritage and Cultural Property Section which, as I imagine you know, ended up in a forum, in the Heritage and Society Forum, which developed over the past year and which due to the pandemic had to be extended to this year. That forum was intended to address what should be the path or path of that necessary paradigm change for proper management of the Greek heritage, of our heritage, which in our view of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is shown to be in all insufficient light. It turns out an obvious thing -- and so much so that, in fact, I'm not going to bore them out in this speech to try to go to great lengths and debate about what we bring here today -- that it's obvious that Galicia has a remarkably rich, unique cultural heritage and that, besides -- and this is important -- it defines us and identifies us as people. Therefore, it deserves all protection, all surveillance and, of course, all its worth. Mostly -- I've said it many times -- here we are what we were. So it is from our point of view that the management of heritage becomes the central and transversal axis of the Galician Union's policy, not only of culture, but of all policies, as I shall explain later. But for that, first, they should change the strategy. I don't know if it's to change the strategy or have one. It's probably more correct to say that, first, they have to have one and then logically increase these resources strongly. We said that this explanation emerges from that forum, because although this parliamentary group, not so -- we think -- the Popular, is very attentive to all the work and reflections carried out by the Galician Culture Council -- we have to remember that it is the highest body in the cultural field -- on this occasion the honourable Member who talks to them was not only spectator in that forum, but also invited to participate as representative of my parliamentary group; as were the other parliamentary groups, the BNG and the People's Party. In that day, certainly extensive and very fruitful -- and here I take the opportunity to thank you for that invitation -- we were offered the possibility of sharing concerns, sharing proposals and approaches with different experts and experts who coordinated the three work tables. By the way, in that forum they were participating in the wealth experts, the best; the best specialists were participating in that forum, which -- as you know further -- were not few. That participation -- it said -- led us in the PSdEG to further reinforce our reflection, which we've already chewed on, about the current policy of cultural heritage management. A reflection, by the way, that goes beyond the presentation of initiatives or initiatives scattered and that obliges -- we think -- to a global reformulation of Galician policy with respect to cultural heritage. Somehow, and from there our interpellation today, the theses of the Heritage and Cultural Property Section of the Galician Council of Culture come to reinforce what for us was already an undeniable fact, and it is this erratic policy in this matter by the Government of Greece. Counsellor, in the short time that this honourable Member exercises as such and in this legislative chamber, many complaints have been made often, not all, on parliamentary initiatives on the management of our cultural heritage. We have the Fourth Committee on Initiatives on this subject. By the way, meetings of the 4th Commission which ultimately turn into frustrating sessions that look more like tennis matches in which the ball is always on the roof of the other, because we finally get out of there with the idea that nothing is of their competence, because it is always the competition of the others. We wonder why you have or you are so afraid to assume competition in something that is both ours and our cultural heritage; something that is not only ours, but ours alone. So in the PSdEG we share -- as I say -- the conclusions of this forum, because they speak of a necessity, of a mandatory redefinition of the management policy of our cultural heritage. And as the Galaga Culture Council also points out, not only of the cultural heritage, because, indeed, this cultural heritage is always associated with the natural and landscape; so we must not dissociate these three fields as you do continuously. This forum we are talking about culminated this summer with the presentation of this Practical Guide to an analysis of a key sector in future governance. By the way, a guide who was presented this summer and who, like the inauguration of the Heritage and Society Forum, did not count on the participation of any members of the People's Party, nor of the Government; nor on this presentation of this guide. [[Mrs. Díaz Varela shows the House this book.]] In this guide -- which I hope you know, I hope because I know it has been forwarded to you -- the specific conclusions of each of the three work tables come to an end. But there are also four ideas that force the way of conclusions that are essential for an improvement in heritage management in Galicia, which, in addition, in the PSdeG we share from beginning to end. What we don't know is if you, at most responsible, first, know them and then share them. From there our interpeleration today. In addition, many interesting ideas are drawn from this document that effectively undergo a change or that should entail a paradigm shift in the governance model, in the heritage management model. It speaks, for example, of designing heritage as a sustainable economic resource, also of that necessary transversality -- of which we will now speak again -- of the issue of heritage when it comes to legislating or implementing policies that affect directly and not only directly, also indirectly, our cultural heritage. It also speaks of the necessary social participation. Please modernise yourself, because it speaks of the necessary social participation in the design of heritage policies. By the way, something that appears as an inspiring principle in the current and vigorous Law of cultural heritage, but which has never materialized. We don't know very well what you referred to in that law when you talk about social participation. By the way, a law which, too, I imagine, will know the Members and the Members of this party, this parliamentary group has not supported. It also speaks of those interesting ideas that propose to conceive heritage as a whole, both material and immaterial, settled in a particular territory that must be managed as such. We believe, moreover, that it is one of the eves that you have in that policy of cultural management, that they do not understand heritage as a whole, but they are for you isolated elements that are not settled in a territory or belong to your people either. They never take that whole thing into account in that heritage management. It also talks about incorporating heritage education -- which is so important -- into teaching and recognizing its positive impact, because it has a positive impact. And it would help a lot, by the way, something very important also when we talk about heritage that is that co-responsibility. Of course, -- we've already said it at first -- more funding is also needed, and I'm not saying more, but more funding is needed. We must overcome the funding figures that today have cultural management policies in our country. I said all this, because I'm running out of time, I'm going to ask you the questions: We want to know how you value the work of the Galeg Culture Council on heritage, specifically the conclusions. Also this Practical Guide, if you know it and you're going to listen to some of the ideas that appear here. More questions, and this is of utmost importance, as far as it has to do with the necessary -- as we said -- transversality of cultural heritage policies, so that since the Greek administration it is understood that our heritage should be taken into account in any other political action, whether we talk about land management, whether rural or energy, we are seeing what is happening with all these proposed wind farms. So we asked you if you think more interdepartmental collaboration is necessary for effective management of our heritage, if you plan to set up a coordinating body for this purpose. I hope you don't tell me that coordination already exists because it obviously doesn't exist. This has to do with the necessary interdepartmental coordination and even interinstitutional coordination. But we also think that we need to have more tools in this parliament in a concrete and transversal matter like what we're talking about. So we'd like to know what you think of the creation of a heritage commission in this parliament and also of a heritage observatory, just as it already exists in other areas of action and it incorporates expert and independent personnel. We would also like to know your opinion about the extent of the vigorous Cultural Heritage Act, very recently, five years ago; if you think that it guarantees the total projection of our heritage and if, no less important, you consider it to help put it in value. We ask this because in our view this law favors a management of the most reactive heritage that proactively, which is what it should be. I don't know what you think. From that point on, if we do not change the law, we, of course, consider it appropriate to set up that commission and that observatory, as proposed by the Galaga Council of Culture. And it ends with a question that concerns us, that we are very concerned about, and that this is not the first time we've been dealing with here, and it is to recognize the frequency with which the Galician Council consults or requests reports to the Galician Council of Culture on issues related to heritage that are not of a preceptive nature. Of course, for the PSdEG it is not to receive any of the things that this -- I repeat -- the highest body of the cultural statute. For now, that's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Councillor for Culture, Education and University, Mr. Román Rodríguez González.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, the truth is that we both agree essentially, we both agree on the importance and value of our heritage wealth, our cultural assets. However, obviously, we have different perceptions and different ways of interpreting and seeing reality. You make a description that's yours, but it's quite different -- we think -- from which you have most of the society in Galicia. There are different perceptions, and that's good, it's not bad; it's good that there's different perceptions, it's normal. But if we agree that our heritage has a high value both material and intangible and that it is also undoubtedly a valuable heritage that ultimately configures our identity, gives us great pride and, of course, is an economic asset. There's a coincidence. It is true that the value of the protection of cultural goods is always an unfinished job, never finished. And the truth is that we take the conclusions that the Galician Council of Culture gives us with an absolutely constructive attitude that will allow us to continue to move forward, to continue to improve. It's a reference to work in favour of Galicia's most straightforward goods. You have no doubt of my political and personal respect for the work of the Council. And not only in my role as advisor and as a member of the plenary. My relationship with the Council is very preliminary to my political and institutional functions, and I know perfectly well how it works, which are its functions and the importance of its work. I have collaborated on many initiatives and have participated in many initiatives of the council itself. Don't hesitate: maximum political respect and maximum personal respect. And I also think that your concern as a Member and as a public representative for the management of heritage is sincere. And I hope -- also trusting in your sincerity -- that you move to the institutions where the Socialist Party governs, to the councils where the Socialist Party governs, the valuations and the punctualizations that you have done in this chamber, so that socialist governments also apply them to improve the management of heritage assets in the field of their competences, in the municipal sphere, which are very much, because they are the ones that manage urban planning. And, of course, respect for the competence frameworks is a basis for the democratic system; for institutions to function, democratic frameworks, statutory frameworks and competence frameworks must be respected. In recent years, from the Government we have been implementing a policy for conservation and also for the protection of this asset. We understand that this is an effective and effective policy. Without going further this year, we increased the budget game by 19%. We were able to carry out more than ninety performances this year, some already finished, some running. An investment of around seventeen million euros. We have and feel -- and that's good that we share it -- a healthy pride for our heritage wealth. It is true that Galicia can presume to have an enormous heritage wealth, spread by the whole territory, by all historical ages, and that it works as an element of social cohesion and as an element that gives us identity, which made the population. It is also a resource that promotes the development of local economies. The truth is, after listening to you, I can't repress myself to make a minimum balance of the work done in the last five years, so that you can keep track of this chamber of the effort made by the Galician Union, which makes the Government of Galicia by the heritage in this country. In five years, more than 50 million euros. These EUR 50 million made it possible for seventy-fifty conservation actions to be held in one hundred and seventy municipalities. If you see this data at least seems complicated or at least glad to talk about the absence of a genuine heritage policy. Precisely, at the beginning of this legislation, we have accomplished one of the great milestones of recent times in the rehabilitation of the country's most straightforward goods, since we have reigned the cathedral of Santiago eight hundred years later, with a coordinating work with private entities and public institutions of different political signs, I think it is more than remarkable. This same summer we present the Cathedral Plan 2021-2027, with the horizon of 2027 of the next year Jacob, with an investment of about forty million euros, around thirty-eight million, to have a global vision, planned and shared of what the actions we are going to take in this period 2021-2027 in the most fundamental cultural assets, assets and resources of Galicia. Talk to us about coordination and question it. Don't be doubted. Ask yourself if there's coordination. The answer is simple: yes. Two examples -- I could put you in a lot -- : The Sacred River Plan, a plan, 34 million euros, six advisories involved in a territory, in a space as fundamental to Galicia as is the Sacred River, with a percentage of investments already executed because more than remarkable. Last week -- another example -- we presented a platform, a "Good Way" project!", a Google cultural platform, where we participate three advisories, well, Antega, the First Vice President and the Council of Culture, as well as other governments, such as the Government of Aragon of the Socialist Party, for example; private institutions, private federations, private foundations. Every day there is interaction between the Department of Heritage and another department of the Union of Galicia, such as the Second Vice-Presidentship, and so on. We could set a lot of examples. I'm surprised you're questioning the 2016 Cultural Heritage Act. Under this law, over seventy goods of cultural interest have been declared. What makes it possible for us to do a work in which at this time many have begun, such as the library of Emilia Pardo Bazán, the house Cornide, Ponte Maceira... is in fact the very law that makes explicit the key role of the Galician Council of Culture as an advisory and consultation body of the Government of Galicia on Galician cultural heritage. He asks how often we ask for reports. Well, practically, we're asking for a report a month. Since 2016, the Galician Council has been asking for an average report on this case to the Galician Council of Culture. Your Honor, the truth is, I share with you that heritage is a social and identity asset, and we do not have the same vision. We also believe that it has an important role in our economy, no doubt, but there is a political framework, an administrative framework and a competitive framework. I ask you, with the utmost sincerity -- as expressed earlier -- to help us also talk to the Minister of Culture about a preliminary draft reform of the Historical Heritage Act, which was initiated by the previous minister, by Mr. Rodríguez Uribes, who undoubtedly does not help and does not agree to anything with his words. The text presented by his party, by the Socialist Party, literally invades autonomous competences, which is one of the foundations of democracy, respect among institutions; significantly increases bureaucratic processes, clears citizenship, prevents participation without doubt. I asked the minister in writing for a meeting, and I hope he will receive me. Because this preliminary draft law is absolutely centralizing the competence framework and completely restricts social participation in the management of heritage assets. I insist: I ask you to move this message within the scope of your party to whom it corresponds, to see if among all, and by collaborating, we can avoid -- that is, it would be a defeat -- that this bill materializes. I trust your sincerity. I hope you'll transfer your concerns to the municipalities where the Socialist Party governs. I trust that the municipal governments of the Socialist Party, like those of the People's Party, respect our frameworks and our competences, that we continue to bet on the cultural, social, economic, identity and pride that gives us the heritage and that we ultimately contribute and bet on something as important to our culture and our country as cultural heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u117	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mrs. Díaz Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u118	Counselor, first, I appreciate the tone, because we've had you and I have some other conversation a little warmer. But today I appreciate it, because I understand that you say you have the same concern as our parliamentary group for the heritage issue. I wasn't expecting another intervention on his side. I understand that you can't here recognize that erratic policy that we were talking about in the area of heritage. And I'm not surprised that I'm back -- even though I've already warned you on my first turn -- to play that tennis game where all the balls end up on the other roof; it could be in the Spanish Government, of course, I'm already surprised that I didn't name Pedro Sánchez here, but also the municipalities. By the way, I also thank that last nuance at the end that also talks about the councils of the People's Party, I understand that also those of the BNG -- I say -- because it seems here that the only ones that we have competence in this are the councils of the Socialist Party. What's strange to me is that you don't take it as you're asking all the expert agents on the subject -- that were not few -- that you need to redefine the policy of managing the present heritage in Galicia, changing your lenses and adapting to a new situation that speaks of greater participation, you talk about modernizing your vision of our heritage. Because I was talking about, for example, hundreds of actions. And, of course, that's exactly what concerns us, what you talk about actions, and you think politics, cultural management, the management of cultural heritage is just taking a plan, putting money, and what it's about is rehabilitating cathedrals. No, and that, precisely, is what they're talking about. That's why I said it's convenient for you to read conscientiously, invest some time -- that's not losing it, quite the opposite -- in reading that Practical Guide. You'll realize that maybe there's no action left, of course, of what you were talking about, but that you need a more global policy and you need to see things in a way that's quite different from what you say. He didn't look at me, but he laughed at me, because you're again talking about the Sacred River Plan -- that plan we've already asked for by article 9 I don't know how many times -- 34 million, who doesn't know anyone, and he also sets an example to talk about that interdepartmental collaboration. Counselor, we're not talking about it, and you know it perfectly well. We're talking about the fact that in this chamber we're approving legislative texts that pay no attention to the property issue, and then everything that's going on is going on. We speak of a constant collaboration in the daily task of all the councils, but also of this chamber, in that work. We're talking about it, we're not talking about getting together for that blessed Sacred Ribeira Plan. Let's hope, really, that someday we have it on paper and we can check it out! We're not talking about it, and you know perfectly well, besides, that we're not talking about it. Second, he didn't answer me about his opinion on the creation of the heritage commission or the observatory. From the heritage I'd like you to give me your opinion. The truth is, we think they should listen -- I remember -- to the highest body of the cultural statute, that you say you have a lot of respect for it, in staff and professionals -- that I also know your trajectory, because we were colleagues, in fact, from college --. I don't doubt it, but I'm talking about the credibility that seems to you to have this Galician Culture Council, which is what it does to bring forward proposals for improvement; in this case, in addition, it is reinforced by the participation of dozens of specialists, collectives, associations and agents from all areas involved in the issue of heritage. Very interesting proposals in this seminar, besides, that are not political, are of a proactive nature; they are not at all political proposals, but based on expert knowledge, empirical, scientific, that point to necessity -- and we are not the ones who say so, we assume these thesis -- a deep analysis of the management of cultural heritage. So it's necessary, Counsellor, to review the current conception of heritage management -- you yourself have just exposed it well, because we're not talking about shares spread over time -- and update it to put in place effective policies that really protect and value our cultural heritage agent. If you don't, and if you don't, you'll be responsible for irreparable damage to our heritage. Of course, something in other countries would be unthinkable. There's no time, we don't have time, we have to react now! I have already finished, as always, saying that to do so, to react already, they will always have and count on the support of this socialist parliamentary group. For us, of course, this is a matter of priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Díaz Varela. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Close the gap, Culture, Education and University advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u120	Thank you again, President. Madam, unfortunately, it is difficult to have meeting points with you in one aspect where we should agree in advance. I don't think you can question the role played by the Galician Council of Culture, nor the respect that the current Government of Galician Union has to a statutory body such as the Galician Council of Culture. But the responsibility of ruling is the Government. We hear, we read, we think, but the responsibility to rule is the Government. It's our responsibility. And we can do it right or we can do it wrong. If we did it wrong, we wouldn't probably be here, either you or the Block, or both as they always are. But it gives the feeling that the perception of society prevails. A government is right or wrong. If correct it tends to stay and if wrong is to be replaced. Fortunately, it is the law of democracy. For I believe that the truth is that management in this sphere I think it has more light than shadows, and of course many more lights than you present. There are also shadows, problems and difficulties. But if we put data on the table, I think we can talk about effective and effective action in rehabilitation and placing on the value of our heritage. I said before: we made a minimum balance of five years. We have -- do you respect the heritage -- more than 200 investments and improvements in churches, convents, monasteries; four hundred interventions in municipalities where the Way of Santiago passes; more than sixty interventions in declared assets of humanity; around 200 initiatives in archaeological deposits; around 100 initiatives in museums. These interventions made by this board, but they must also be added to the actions of other departments, because when you talk about coordination, you will need to know that the Government is coordinated in the Board of Directors. This government can be coordinated by the Council of the United States; other autonomous governments and some state governments are not coordinated by their councils. We coordinate perfectly. And we work collectively in their skills for heritage. For example, on the Santiago Road, he works tourism, and he works agile. On the coast, he works the Councillory of the Sea, rehabilitating heritage on many occasions. In housing, in historical helmets, works Environment through the Galego Institute of Living and Solo. Even in Education we work in favour of the rehabilitation of physical heritage, of course at didactic level, with specific subjects and with transversal visions, but also rehabilitating historic buildings, such as, for example, the Valle-Inclán in Pontevedra, the Eusebius of Guarda in Coruña, which are historic buildings, of high heritage value and catalogued. And we have a global vision. All your speech, Madam, can be more beautiful or uglyr, we don't come in to value it, but it's quite contradictory to what your party does. The Socialist Party has just introduced a bill that actually contradicted everything you say. I hope that some of the basic principles will be modified, because if it is not clear that there is an absolute competitive invasion, an absolute recentralization, an absolutely sectoral vision of rehabilitation. There is no integral vision, no participation. We're almost going back to times -- I'd even say -- pre-democratic in heritage management. All his discourse of participation, involvement, integral vision does not exist in this project. And I think I'm going back to what I said before: I'd ask him to help us convince the current minister, not to take on the documentation or the bill that he was left on the table, because all his speech falls. There's an absolute contradiction between what you're proposing and what there's white on black in the National Heritage Bill. In short, I don't have the slightest doubt that we take our heritage skills very seriously. And we also want other administrations to do the same, be municipalities, be the state, have their powers and lots of them. Because, in the end, our heritage -- as we've already said -- gives us identity, gives us pride, means a lot to all people, and it's also a fundamental economic pillar for the local economies where the heritage itself is. I appreciate your interpellation, and go quietly, that we have -- as I have already said -- the highest personal and political respect by the Galician Council of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u121	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Interpellation by Alexandra Fernández Gómez and D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, G. P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the policies of the Government of Greece regarding the improvement of access to housing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u122	Mrs. Fernández Gómez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u123	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. I'd like to propose something to you today: I want to bring to your consideration a practical case that perfectly illustrates what are the conditions for access to the protected housing in Galicia. I ask you, please, to forget today about marketing, empty phrases and to go to the concrete, to step on the ground. Let's say we have two different cases of housing demands. On the one hand, we have a family made up of a couple and two children; the father suffers from chronic illness, which prevents him from working and the mother from finding work. As a result of that situation, the family has exhausted the resources it had, the savings it had, and now it's entering into a situation where you have to choose between paying rent or eating. The second case is a person, about thirty-four years old, who takes into account the savings account half a million euros, because he had an inheritance or whatever, and who declares an annual salary of 33,000 euros, and wants for the first time to have access to a housing scheme, he wants to buy his first housing. Counsellor, who do you think is in a situation of greater vulnerability? And the second question is, which of the two cases do you think you urgently need access to a protected housing? [[Applause]] And this might seem to be a simple question, but it's not a trivial question, because the fundamental questions here come from which they explain how the architecture of public housing policies is configured, because it makes two essential questions: on the one hand, who should be the priority object of public housing policies and, on the other hand, who benefits and who excludes the current model. I'll come back later on this particular case. I hope that we will come to debate about the concrete reality, but first of all I also want to give some context. Now there's a Housing Applicant's Log, where anyone who wants to choose a protected housing or a number of housing aids has to be registered there. That record has been in total collapse for years. At this moment there are about fifteen thousand units of cohabitation inscribed in that register, and it must be borne in mind that behind each of those cohabitation units there are entire families. And that's not what we say, we recognize it as the 2015-2020 Housing Plan which the People's Party has made, which says behind these fifteen thousand units of cohabitation there are 50,000 people waiting for a public housing. It's not an exaggeration, it's the data that are collected in the housing plan itself. And people are waiting for them, once they write, for years and years waiting, even decades, and even a lifetime, and housing is not enough. These are the real times that people manage when they register in that record. You are fully aware of this situation, you know it, you just have to spend a moment in an office at the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo to check it out, and see also what the hopelessness and the vital hatred of the people there is. And so they know this, that in the previous housing plan they said this collapse of the Register was one of the five main housing problems this country had, and that this was one of the top priorities. Five years have passed from the plan, and the result is that we have exactly the same figure as when the plan started: fifteen thousand units of registered coexistence. This, in fact, demonstrates the continuing failure of the People's Party's housing policies and the failure of the previous Housing Plan. This is the general context: the collapse of the Register, the failure of its plans, the failure of its counseling; the data is there. But today you have the opportunity to put forward some initiative to try to solve this, or at least assume this problem, or the second option, which is to continue to be installed in a position of the negationist advisor to reality. I wish we were surprised! I'm going to look for it to be so, that it doesn't go by the negationist line that this is the situation of the Register. So I'm going to give you data, which is best against negationism, data that explains why this is happening. First, the Government of Feijóo cut out two thirds of the budget that had been allocated to housing programs in the Bipartisan Government. Cutting out two thirds of the housing access program explains the second data, which is the protected housing data, because this is the graph: the red line since you govern, which has left the housing protected by the floor. [[Mrs. Fernández Gómez shows the camera a graph of A4 size.]] So much so that in 2019 only four houses came out. We have fifteen thousand units of registered cohabitation waiting for housing, and you only take out four protected dwellings. To change the situation, the first thing to deal with is to multiply the budget of these programmes and promote the creation of a public housing park that places us in figures similar to the European context. So budgeting and housing park; this is the basis of the problem. But there's a second problem, which is also how resources are distributed, and whether that distribution of resources serves to alleviate social inequalities. Here we go back to the practical case of the beginning: what would happen if these two profiles went to the Register of applicants for housing? Well, the couple with two children, who were in a situation of inability to pay the rent at the end of the month, because of charging less than 0.7 times the IPREM, are excluded from the option of opting for self-protection housing. This is the first filter on board, where a person or unit of coexistence with incomes less than 5,535 euros per year is excluded directly from the option of opting for most of the homes offered. However, in the case of a person with an inheritance of half a million euros and a salary of 33,000 euros a year, it can access an autonomous housing scheme in general. In addition, however, you can request additional aid for the purchase of protected housing amounting to EUR 20,000 if you buy it in cities and EUR 16,000 in the rest of the municipalities. In view of this, it is quite appealing, firstly, that one does not take into consideration the question of the estate that the plaintiff has and, secondly, that people who enter through the purchasing regime are usually those who have the highest purchasing power capacity compared to the people who enter through the rent, who are those people who enter in the purchasing regime who acquire through the board a bonus of aid, who are quite superior to those who are the aids of the rental. It's a policy contrary to redistributive logic because, in fact, if there's a redistributive part in the protected housing that has to do with adapting to the price of living according to income, that logic is broken when you apply bonds to housing in the purchase regime of such high amounts as I just said. I'm going to put another practical case: two people are applying for housing in historic centers and rural centers of public promotion, which every time, in addition, this is important, because it's going to be an increasingly important bag of housing. The requirement they have to opt for a housing is to have a maximum income of up to 5.5 times the IPREM, so that a person who covers a salary of 3,000 euros a month opts under the same conditions, for example, that a person who earns 600 euros a month, and which is currently impossible to access the housing through the free market. Besides, as we've seen before, the person who collects 600 euros is likely to be in the rental scheme because he can't deal with the purchase. So the other person is probably going to receive direct help for the purchase of 20,000 euros, which is not going to receive the person who pays 600 euros a month. In short, there are no policies of positive discrimination for low income. And this latter case, of course, is not as extreme as the initial one, but it perfectly illustrates that its policies do not favor the most needy people. In any case, any of the profiles I've spoken of will also be faced with the same underlying problem, which is the lack of shelter offer protected. These people will be registered in the Register of Demands and will find eternal hope. At this point, I think you can qualify the Register of applicants of Vivenda as a sort of infrared wall for many people, who can't assume to spend their lives waiting for a protected housing and who has to look for alternatives. And here, in the search for alternatives to the infringable wall of the Housing Demand Registry, this is where you also put alternatives that are not redistributive, because the alternatives are: that if you have enough wealth and you have a job stability to be able to acquire a housing, the Board directly offers you 20,000 euros for buying a free housing in historic centers -- free housing, not even protected housing --. If you want to buy a subsidising housing with 20,000 euros for you to go to the free market, which you can't make a person who has to go to the rent scheme. I mean, by recovering the first case, to the boy who had a half-million-euro heritage, if he doesn't want to keep waiting for a shelter protected in that hatred, Junta gives him directly the money to buy it. While people who can only access rent schemes, the most vulnerable, are still waiting. And the help that exists you know perfectly well that there are not enough, that there are many plaintiffs left out. Counsellor, the questions: are you going to follow the current budgets or are you going for all this government of the People's Party to multiply -- because I don't say to increase -- budgeting in housing access programs anymore? If you have any specific program for the plan, to reduce the collapse of housing: concrete goals, how many housings have you planned to build? Why does Junta leave behind the people who need it most? By what criteria do you articulate housing policies?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Reply by the Environmental Adviser, Territory and Housing, Ms. Ángeles Vázquez Mejuto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u125	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Mrs. Fernández, I see that even though there are multiple alternatives to you, there is no use at all. And it has to be different between wanting to revitalize historical helmets and, therefore, up to that 5 where IPREM refers to itself, and another is what public housing itself is. Even so, I would tell you that I had asked certain questions to certain mayors, it could be Pontevedra's, but it could also be Vigo's. Totally finished works, public housing, people waiting for us to hand over their keys, and for months now waiting for that first-occupied license -- the example: Vigo. And we can talk about San Paio de Navia, where we budget year after year, and months of continuous obstacles so we can continue to have public housing. But we could go to Pontevedra, specifically to that public ground contest so they can opt for cooperatives, and they're also years of delay to have the corresponding licenses. Having said this, Mrs. Fernández, we have to tell you that it's been over a decade since the Galician Union has this housing policy planning. And even now it's not even done only by the Environmental Council, but it's done through a social pact: the social pact for housing, where they're all represented, from the builders' promoters, through the municipalities, even consumers, Mrs. Fernández. But it's true that we have to talk about the imminent, what we've just finished, which is the RehaVIta Plan 2015-2020, and we've already focused on that social pact for housing, which goes until 2025. We have a transversal policy in which we not only focus on access to housing, which is fundamental, we also focus on rehabilitation. Therefore, in the highest quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks, and putting the focus on other issues, as fiscal policy might be. It's twelve years with a clear goal: to support the Greek families. The RehaVIta Plan was the first implemented by the German Government, and it was also this government, the Government of the People's Party, and not another, which tried to have a fundamental and solid structure to design that housing policy, which has to embrace from rural to historic helmets, not forgetting the rest of the territory. They change the priorities of the Greeks and, therefore, we also change the priorities of the Greeks. By 2020, having finished this project, we are working and we have a plan. This is a composite plan, Mrs Fernández, by means of one hundred measures, which aims to mobilise up to 2025 some 1,100 million euros and bring us up to seventy thousand Greek families. I have to tell you that this social housing plan, where they are all represented, is currently 71% of the measures included in this social pact is already running -- eight months after its signature -- and another 22% is in preparation, so they are also expected to be underway before the end of the year. It is worth noting that this is a pact driven by the Government of Greece, but that it is born solely and exclusively from the consensus. Some people who are represented at the Galician Housing Observatory, a body that meets periodically and that at its last meeting took stock of the implementation of this pact at this last meeting. We must also say that, Mrs Fernández, because you are talking about the budget, and of course we are working on budgets, and within these budgets we must also count on the National Housing Plan, which a lot of things have to change to make it effective. But we also have to talk about European funds, and that's where the sector itself put the problem on the table in order to achieve the objectives that are marked from Europe and from the central government. The allegations that we have also done are to work and transfer them to the Central Government, and that we still have no answer today. The observatory works well, Mrs. Fernández; the registrar also works well. And, of course, when you talk about collapse, what there is is a logical evolution: on the one hand, there are high ones and, on the other hand, there are low ones. What are the casualties is because they were either the adjudicators of a housing, which can be public, or in other cases they renounced that housing, or in the third they accessed a real estate. In this case, through areas such as how they may be the various aids they have from the Government of Greece, either to acquire housing in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, or to access housing in historical helmets. And there's some help, 10 million euros help, this year for rent, which is fundamental. But I'm going to give them data. And the data are, for example, since the reform of the Register, which in 2010 the Board has assisted more than three thousand and five hundred public promotion housing. From 2015 to 2020, dates of RehaVIta's visit, we have granted 17,500 rental aid, amounting to 34 million euros. One figure, of course, in which we have not excluded those beneficiaries of other programs -- up to half a hundred, he said earlier -- and the actions of the Galician Housing Board, as are those extraordinary in which at one time we have to get to work. And do not allow it, for example, to be caused by a fire or by the explosion that occurred in Tui, those families could be left without a single dwelling, and there was the Junta de Galicia. Or different projects and programs for the acquisition of housing. We also don't count the thousands of housing rehabilitation aids, because we also have to work to make those people who have a home better quality of life. As I'm sure you will know, Junta has a number of help programs to facilitate access to the homes of the Greeks and the Greeks, whether in rent or in sale. In this boost to the rent, for example, within these 10 million euros that you were saying -- and thinking of the people who suffer from it -- we have this year 2021 two million euros to help the rent-cavid. So far 538 has been granted, and we can reach 950; no one will be left without the help. In 2020 a total of 1,091 aid was granted to these families, with amounts up to EUR 500; in 2020, the total amount we gave was EUR 2.2 million. They're the rental aid of the housing plan, which we're also looking for another 2.2 million euros, which allowed us to grant 1,300 aid. At present, Mrs Fernández, they are in processing. And then there's the social rent bonus. No one -- as you described -- who is in a bad situation will be left without a home or help. But if you have names and surnames, I'd appreciate it if you moved it to the Galego Institute of Living and Solo, because it would give you an answer -- not to you, of course, because there's something we have to preserve, but yes to the person who's asking for it, in case there was a problem --. The rental social bonus, an amount of EUR 2.9 million. And we paid the rent to 100 percent. Between 2015 and 2020, 2,246 bonds amounting to 6,6 million euros were granted. And then there are more vulnerable people. There are women who are victims of gender-based violence, 2.6 million euros, and that lease bonus is 100 percent too. Over the past two years, they've been fired -- I wish we didn't have to grant any! -- 341 aids, and they added 1.5 million euros. And so we have repeatedly collaborated with the municipalities in the creation of a municipal public park, an education in which the aid to the municipalities for the rehabilitation of municipal housing. We even change, because first they were the old teacher schools and now they are any housing that is owned by the municipality and that they want to rehabilitate so that people in that municipality can continue in the municipality and therefore have access to them. This program started in 2017 and allowed 121 homes to be rehabilitated, amounting to 4.6 million euros; this year it was 1.7 million euros, and we have just granted up to now 33 aids. Then, of course, there are the infra-vivals, with a total of 96 dwellings, for 1.1 million euros. And I could keep telling you about the aid to promoters, which we created in 2019, and which allowed you to launch a total of 96 homes with an investment of 2.3 million euros. On the other hand, Mrs Fernández, we have three lines for the acquisition of housing. In fact, it's the help of under 35 years of age to buy housing and in municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, 338 housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u127	And it's the help to buy housing in historic centers; it's to have the opportunity but also to dynamize historical helmets. And on the other hand, it's the aid for the acquisition of protected housing. These are a novelty to the social pact for housing after they disappeared from the national housing plan in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u128	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u129	Counsellor, you do not disappoint yourself with your denialist intervention of the problem. The Vivenda Register is collapsing, they want it or they don't recognize it. In fact, some high dances, others low dances, but what remain unchanged are the fifteen thousand registered units of cohabitation, which you yourself recognized in the previous Housing Plan that was one of the main housing problems in this country. [[Applause]] We didn't say it, you said it yourself. But to change that, what is really needed is investment. And to you, it seems, it seems to him that everything goes fantastic in his counseling. We need these housing cut-off policies to be reversed. We must have political will to change the situation. But you prove you don't have any, and the demonstration of that is the current housing plan. I'd like to make a comparison of what is Catalonia's sectoral housing plan, by setting an example. A plan that may like more or less, I don't come up with an assessment of the concrete, but that has a graph of how many housings in particular, is going to make an annual forecast at fifteen years old for each of the modalities. [[Mrs. Fernández Gómez shows the House a leaflet.]] A minimum forecast. This is the Plan of Housing of the Galician Union, which you have is a trail that I can sum up perfectly, because it says, "Living of public promotion. It should create housing for public promotion." [[Mrs. Fernández Gómez shows the Chamber another leaflet.]] That's it, not a single data. And the good example is your intervention, which you came here, and from the Housing Plan, the only thing we know so far is how many millions are going to be in general, we know how many people are going to arrive and we know how much work will generate like this in general, but we don't know how many housing will create. The housing plan doesn't know how much housing it's going to create. I sincerely believe that you invent the figures of how many people will arrive, because if you don't even have a minimum of rigour to draw up the plan and define what housing targets are going to be, you take those figures out of your sleeve. [[Applause]] That's not a plan, it's directly a pamphlet, because it's empty of information. And not only do they make these kinds of plans, but they also hide information about what was the previous plan. When we completed the previous plan we asked from the BNG to know what were the exact figures of the protected housing that was built over the last five years during the previous plan, which allowed them to do an X-ray to face the new housing plan. And the answer from Together to all the questions was the same: that they would give us a report by the end of this year. Of course, and to me the question that arises to me, Counselor, is whether you are going to give us the information about what has been done at the end of this year of Plan 2015-2020, is it that you have asked Plan 2021-2025 without knowing what you yourself have done before? Don't you have that data? [[Applause]] I think if they know perfectly well what they did during the previous period, what happens is they're trying to hide the information and put under the carpet the embarrassing results that got that plan. They're with the ostrich's strategy, putting their heads under the ground and seeing if time passes. But while you make that strategy, we bring proposals to this camera. As we recently brought to Commission 2a to try to reverse the situation of collapse. What we're proposing was at least to start making a diagnosis of what's going on with the Vivenda Register of Applicants, to do an X-ray. And we ask for an analysis of the situation: to know what was the number of houses provided, what are the average and maximum time limits that are taking place at the Galego da Vivenda and Solo Institute in adjudicating housing, to see what is the degree of accessibility according to the rental or purchase regime, to analyze the socioeconomic variables of the registries and the degree of urgency in access to housing. Finally, a whole series of indicators that allowed us to at least define what should be the priority lines of action and what specific targets to achieve. We also call for a specific plan to address this situation, which served as a benchmark for the new housing plan. Since there is no prediction of anything concrete, it's just an empty determination, at least having a frame of reference in this sense, with complementary strategies but differentiated by socio-economic profiles and territorial trends. And we're also asking for a forecast of targets, temporary prices. All of this was voted against by the People's Party, which is against making an X-ray of the situation and designing a minimal strategy to address this problem. We didn't even propose a minimum of protected housing to which they had to arrive. What we told him is that they at least address the situation, and neither did they vote against it. It is necessary, Counsellor, to talk about housing priorities. Because you have to choose whether the resources go to rent or go to the purchase plan. You're still committed to buying resources; you're still installed in a prescribed mentality of the real estate bubble, and you have to change. There is an increasing consensus in admitting that the protected housing park has to be mainly rented. And he gave not only this group, but the ministry itself recognises that it was a failure to live a protected housing policy in the purchasing regime. Because now we are suffering the consequences that when that housing passes to the free market it loses its social function, and public administrations are left empty-handed to make public housing policies. What we have to do is bet on the protected housing in rent schemes. Unlike the way you're going, you drive in the opposite direction. The housing of public promotion must also be prioritized in the face of the housing of private promotion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u131	And I'm done. Priority must also be given, Counselor, where the money is spent. Because you spent 8,000 euros hiring your finger a report to a former member of the Castile-A-Mancha People's Party to talk about occupation, which is based on OK Diario's information. That's the rigor of that report you hired. They hired another report, 18,000 euros to talk about occupation, when the data, once again, of the General Council of the Judiciary say the cases of occupation... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u133	...falled by 30 % over the previous year. You spend money on problems that don't exist, while reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u135	...is that the people who see themselves in a situation of not being able to cope with the rent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Gómez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u137	...you have absolutely no right to anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u138	Thank you, your time is up. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Closure of the inquiry, Environmental, Territory and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Fernández, as you relate to the press, look at the press from time to time, meet with the neighbours of the Crown and tell them whether there are problems of occupation or not. I hope you don't live it, but I do receive those people who have problems of occupation. What makes a housing occupation doesn't believe you believe it's because it's not given to you by the Galician Board to have access to that housing, it's because you don't want to accomplish anything at all, and what you're doing is to get into a private property. We, from the Environmental Council, what we do is we fight for everyone's rights, but also for private property. [[Applause]] When you were talking to me, you were calculating or not calculating. Look: to be entitled to a public housing count as shown in the IRPF the performances of the work, but also the savings. I don't know where you come from that you don't compute your savings. So they stop twisting. On the other hand, if you want to know where the millions of euros are put that seems to be that, in your opinion, they're just talkatives, be a little more rigorous, because I'm sure we can give you the data, and besides that they're public and they're certified. When you ask why there is no more public housing, I'll tell you again: ask the mayor of Vigo, San Paio de Navia. Here we go: 2,700 homes that are paralyzed by a single political decision. We'll reschedule this year so we can do urbanization. And of course there's a lot of people in desirable Vigo, because it's the most demanding city to live in, to be able to live in San Paio. But I can send it again to Valdecorvos, and I'm sure you can talk to the mayor of Pontevedra. But I could also send her where the mayor of Lugo, where in Tinería we have rehabilitated homes, which we took months and months also to be able to adjudicate for not having a first-occupied license. That's the reality, it's not another, Mrs. Fernández. Still, you want it to be clear and let's talk about numbers. And I'm talking to you about figures, and the figures are clear: 2,500 public promotion dwellings that have been affected since 2010. Seventeen thousand and five hundred rental aid granted since 2015, which amounts to more than EUR thirty-four million. Of course we chose the rent. They change policies because they also change criteria and change people's demand. A rental housing park consisting of 3,500 real estate. We have 2,920 social lease bonds and rental bonds for victims of gender violence granted between 2015 and 2021. There are 162 rehabilitated municipal dwellings amounting to €6.3 million since 2017. I can continue to sink: 113 homes rehabilitated in Vigo's old helmet; 117 homes rehabilitated, amounting to EUR 1.7 million, since 2017; 96 aids granted to promoters for the construction and rehabilitation of homes, amounting to EUR 5.9 million; more than four hundred and thirty aids for the acquisition of housing in municipalities of less than five thousand inhabitants, and about 50 aids for the purchase of housing in historical helmets, for more than seven hundred thousand euros. Those are numbers. On the other hand, what I would like is for you to have a minimum of respect for all those people who work around and meet in the Observatory, and besides, they are the ones who are working for and for housing, but there are also consumer associations. We work on the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And right now we're working on another challenge, and it's the challenge of managing European funds, of which EUR 81 million corresponds to Galicia. They are rehabilitation, energy efficiency and public housing construction programs. By the way, within what is that public housing building, do you know how far the central government reaches? About 20 percent, the rest have to put on autonomous communities. And it's not only Galicia that you're saying this can't be, it's also the rest of the autonomous communities. And it's good that they've given him a little time to work on this issue. Funds that need to be adapted to the realities of each territory, and in our case to Galicia, for them to be effective. That's how we transferred it to those who are their government partners in Madrid. We demand better criteria and requirements in housing programs to awaken the interest of the Greeks and the Greeks. If they're not interested because the aid is minimal, we can hardly get to certify those 80 million euros. It is necessary to increase so much aid and provide incentives, incentives for autonomous communities, but also for communities of owners themselves, for the owners, for the improvement of those housing. Rehabilitation aids must be implemented through existing programs, such as the Rexurde areas or the integral rehabilitation areas. You know that now they want to change and therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u141	...a new program has just been invented, which is the neighborhood program. I appreciate the interest in housing, Mrs Fernández, but I would also like to thank the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo, the Fegamp, the Official College of Architects of Galicia, the Official College of Finance Administrators, the real estate agents, the Galego Council of Consumers and Users, the Galego Council of Colleges of Appellators and Architects of Galicia, the Galega Construction Federation, the promoters of soil construction of Galicia or the Union of Housing Cooperatives, because they are part of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u142	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u143	...of the work to be carried out in Galicia from here to 2025.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u144	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u145	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u146	Thank you. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Question by Mr Pablo Arangüena Fernández and two other Members, by Mr P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Council of Galicia in relation to the management of the concords
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u147	Mr. Aranguena has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Counsellor, yesterday the Socialist Parliamentary Group voted in favour and the PP voted against the establishment of a committee of inquiry on emptying of cheers. The justification for this unjustifiable vote, according to the spokesperson of the PP, is that where this commission of inquiry has to be formed, it is in the State Parliament. But you know, first of all, that it is perfectly compatible to form a committee of inquiry in Congress and form it here in the Galician Parliament, if that was the case. And secondly, when we're talking about four embalms located in Galicia, in the rivers of Galicia, and about which the Galician Union itself has opened files of sanctions, ridiculous but sanctions, that come to this parliament and tell us that where to open an investigation commission is at Congress is a covert of hair, in addition to that -- as I said yesterday -- it's also a demonstration of its complete addiction to political pornography. I'd say more: it's an exhibition of cheap, cheap political pornography, voting "no" to a research commission after saying, as Mr. Feijóo said in press round, that the emptying of applause this summer is an irresponsibility of enormous ecological transcendence, a nonsense and that he hadn't seen anything like it in his twelve years of government. That's what he said. You can't say these things so terrible that you said Feijó and say, as you said yourself, that there is convolence between the state and the electricians and then you don't make it easy for the majority of your parliamentarians to investigate these same facts. It can't be, or it shouldn't be. Light and tachographs for what he did or did not make the Board and light and tachographs also for what he did or did not do the State. That is what we are demanding from the Socialist Parliamentary Group: light and tachographs, Counsellor. And it results from an unbearable cynicism all that Mr. Feijóo said about this subject when within the broad environmental competences of the Union is the protection of the river ecosystems, which are of enormous ecological importance and which fall under the preventive regime and sanctioner of three laws, not one, but three autonomous laws of Wales, which I use to put again in the knowledge of the lady counselor, because it seems that she did not bother to consult the legislation of her department, because you are more of doing a photo on the Wetlands Day, a little bit on Water Day, a little photo on the Environment Day. That is, what beautiful is Galicia, what beautiful are the fish, how beautiful are the birds and the flowers, and what green is everything!, and what green is also the People's Party of Galicia! And, if it's not green, let's paint it green and fixed, for you. [[Applause]] I said the other day -- and I repeat today -- that the analysis of the statements and actions of two counselors, you and Ethel Vázquez, and Mr Feijó on the subject of emptying of cheers shows a level of falsehood and irresponsibility and inappropriate scapism of a democratic government, and rosifies the prevarication -- reitero --, if not directly wrong in it, because after he blamed -- to vary -- the central government and that Mr Feijóo told the press round on 2 September that Junta was not informed by electric companies, on 3 September two Iberdrola posts were published (10 June and 12 June) which prove vigorously that Mr Feijó once again lied to Galicia, and the lie in democracy when it is flagrant, as in this case, should give rise to responsibility. But Mr. Feijóo has given everything quite the same since he denied his friendship with a well-known drug dealer, also lying to Galicia, to such an extent that if Mr. Feijóo had been Pinocho he would have to extend this hemisphere to accommodate him to the length of his nose. And despite being informed by double departure, by Iberdrola and the Confederation, the German Government took seventy days to initiate four sanctioning files for the ridiculous amount of EUR 25,000 each. But even today, one hundred and ten days after the first communication, you haven't determined the legally binding preventive measures laid down by the Galician Fisheries Regulation, which has to be fixed by the Galician Union, which obliges the Union to tell the electricians what measures they have to take to avoid harm. It's been a hundred and ten days and Junta hasn't done anything, except to open four ridiculous records to companies that, like Iberdrola, have a profit of 3,610 million euros in 2020, 50,000 euros in total for a company like Iberdrola who earns that figure in a year, 3,600 million euros, and to which he laughs at its sanction. And when you're criticized for the ridiculousness of that matter, when you're criticized because you've lowered this year the amount of penalty for the emptying of cheers in 95 percent, nothing more and nothing less, then you say you could impose sanctions up to 2 million euros. He says they could sanction for 2 million, but he doesn't sanction or initiate a sanction file for that sanction of the other law, a shocking ridiculous administration that has prepared means and officials but who kicks to the waist, you don't know whether by mere incompetence or by Mr. Feijóo's friendship with Mr. Galán. But, in any case, the conclusion is that both you and Mr. Feijóo are a disaster for the Galician environment with their toxic policies. And I repeat -- to see if you find yourself through repetition -- that there are three autonomous laws that force you to act if there are signs of environmental damage -- as Mr. Feijóo says there are -- three environmental laws, which are not promulgated and approved by dangerous ecologists or Bolivarian agents, but by yourself, that you yourself are unable or able to comply with your own laws, driven and approved by the Galician Union and the Galician PP: the Law of Continental Fisheries, that of natural heritage and of environmental protection of Galicia; also a Fisheries Regulation, which says that the Union is the one who has to authorize or does not void the encores. And Junta had all the information, because one: Iberdrola transmitted, as I told you, communications; two: the Confederation reported the emptying to 112, which depends on Mr. Rueda and therefore on the Board; three: the Confederation communicates every week -- as you should know -- the level of each of its embalms to Galician Waters, as it could not be otherwise; four: if it was just the whole of the above, you have hundreds of environmental agents, who among their duties of office have the supervision of river courses including coronations; but it seems that the first agent who followed a embalm did so on August 20, which is the date that reflects the sanctioning records, seventy days after Iberdrola's first communication and the Hydrographic Confederation. That is, it took you seventy days to step up a reservoir from the first communication, seventy days for the administration responsible for protecting the environment in Galicia to tell an environmental agent to turn around those four embalms, seventy days, Counsellor. Can you be more incompetent? And it's enough for one of the hundreds of environmental agents to make that visit for the cheers to check their level and whether there's damage or not. That's what I have to do to Junta, because it's their competence and it has a lot more means and abilities than the Confederation, but above all -- I insist -- because it's their competence and there's a lot of laws that force them to exercise their competence. If you don't --repeat --, you default. If the Union knows that it is causing a damage to the fear of the environment, as Mr. Feijóo said, who said it was a tremendous thing, if it does not act, for it prevaric. And don't let me out, please, absurdly in your reply that I despise the environmental agents or something like that, as you've done before, because the environmental agents do what you tell them, and if you don't tell them to inspect the embassies below 20%, even though the Board has a legal obligation to do so, because it's not the agent's fault, it's the advisor's fault, not the agents. And above all, it turns out that this year the Board itself has amended here, in this parliament, the Continental Fisheries Act, which was 92, and has made sanctions for emptying of coroners, which could reach 300,000 euros, with the law of 92 now they can only reach 25,000 euros; a reduction of 95%, nothing less than 95% less for emptying of coroners. Which also implies, as we said here in the processing of the Fisheries Act, that control over hydroelectrics is relaxed and that river aggressions are getting cheaper in Galicia, as is the case in all environmental policies in general in Galicia, that we are going back like crabs, not by any means like river crabs, which are just one left. With these maximum counts of 25,000 euros and their sanctioning records, what we have is a smoke curtain to cover up the shames of the Galician Union. Instead of starting ridiculous sanctioning files that may take years to end, tell companies today, even today, what measures must be implemented either by the Fisheries Act or by the Environmental Heritage Act or by the Galician Environmental Protection Act. If you can impose sanctions of 2 million euros, you won't, you don't talk about it, do it, do it now, do it now, Counselor, or I'll have to invite you to do something else, because something you'll have to do. And they abandon -- I repeat -- you're once political pornography. By the way, I hope you're not offended to talk about pornography; pornography is something that's around, what happens is that you transplant it into politics. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else, and we'll go on. Is talking about pornography machismo? I tell them to give up political pornography associated with what they're doing on this issue; I say it and I repeat it. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else, and we're going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u149	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Everything in your place, please, there's no need to explain. No, no, in this case it is a terminology which each Member is free to use. I'm not gonna... No, no, I'm sorry, I'm not going into that debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Response from the Environmental, Territorial and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u150	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Orange, it's really hard to be more unpleasant. Having said this, and without entering that debate, for which I have no qualifications, I would have asked myself as a woman and as an adviser not to raise my voice, and the ability to be neither do those gestures, which say very little about you. [[Applause]] That said, I also have to correct it: they're not river crabs, they're mussels; nothing happens, everybody's wrong. The only thing is, if we can take care of the ways and be a little more educated, it's always nice. It is the third time, Mr. Aranguena, that I come here, and of course I am for that, to give satisfying answers to what I am asked, and of course also the interpellations. I did it at first to talk about the emptied, I did it by the technical secretary-general in Commission 7th and I think I've brought it up to what all the articles are and that you should at least go pick up some. The explanation by the Board was quite clear. However, I have no problem speaking again of empty embalms, before which the President of the Hydrographic Confederation sees that he was in other parties, and you were very entertained, because of course he ignored and his powers were nonexistent or at least did not exercise them. Indeed, it was scandalous, it was scandalous and it was a barbarity, but it was not said by the chairman of the board of Galicia and I don't say it and the technicians don't say it; it's what the minister of Ecological Transition says. And, as the Minister of Ecological Transition says, I think it should be quite enlightening for you, and not to keep repeating that same situation. I don't know what's going on for you to be continually defending the president of the Hydrographic Confederation; or yes; it's probably a war you have inside the party, but you're burning up enough. If I were close to prevarication, as you say, tell me that crime would commit the president of the Hydrographic Confederation, who is the only competent in those gatherings, but even tell me that crimes would be committed when he comes to defend and is repeatedly hiding his performance here. Having said this, Mr. Arangüena, I must also say to you once again: the only body competent to set limits on the landings and to communicate the intentions to the Council of Galicia, which in no case have been made by the President of the Hydrographic Confederation, is he, alone and exclusively, the President of the Hydrographic Confederation, although, according to you yourself, it seems, here they have all competences, except this gentleman, that he must charge a payroll, be on arms crossed and devote himself alone and exclusively to the party, but not to protect the interests of the Greek natural heritage. It is concluded from his arguments that the president has no competence, that he may sit and look elsewhere. And, Mr. Aranguena, this is not so, and it is not so because you know it perfectly, you know it perfectly, and you gave it an answer, met by the Council of Galicia. But they even gave him their answer, and he wasn't a minister, they were even two. Contrary to what the Welsh PSOE does, the vice president has assumed his powers, and he acknowledges that with the state water regulations in his hand, water demarcation presidents can avoid emptying the reefs. Why didn't you avoid them? Well, look, they'll actually have to investigate you, you'll know why you didn't do it and what it's hiding around all this. The only administration that acted was unique and exclusively the Galician Junta, through the competent council; in two ways: on the one hand, through river fishing, continental, which, by the way, was the maximum penalty: 25,000 euros for each chorus, ridiculous; for you look back and see the sanctions that were put on the part of the Bipartite, when they ruled the PSOE and the BNG in Galicia. Do you know how many those sanctions were? Of EUR 400. That's ridiculous, Mr. Aranguena. But not only that, you continue to investigate and also with technical reports, which was the instructor himself, who is an official, who asked for it, and, of course, will come to the end of the consequences, with penalties that can reach up to 2 million euros. By the way, you'll be very entertained in other things, but you need to know that Galician Waters last week put a sanction on a hydroelectric, in support of its responsibility and its competition, of 1.9 million euros. So instead of being so entertained in other fights, you'd be much more relaxed by reading the press a little bit more and thus not making the ridiculous to keep saving the image of a gentleman who seems to be on his side in those elections or in that congress that they now have in sight. Having said this, and making sure they've been analyzing the water regulations, let me question it or at least admit that that analysis you did it ad hoc in your own way. What I recommend, if I may, is the literal reading of legislation, not interpretive reading or even creative reading, because until you create it! What happens is that you believe in negative, you never do it in positive, and with a smile and with other gestures, that really would be much better for you. Since, for example, Article 83 of the Galician River Fisheries Regulation is clear and does not allow interpretations. As for the regulation of communications, says the following. One first: it will be the concessionaire to whom you must inform the Hydrographic Confederation that you want to do empty work and where you want to get these emptied, and it is the Hydrographic Confederation to which you must report favourably or unfavorably; since then, Mr. Aranguena, you must transfer it to the Environmental Council, which sets the conditions so that you will not be harmed over the whole area of fish. And that never happened, Mr. Aranguena; you can give him the rounds he wants, that didn't happen. And it turns out that the President of the Confederation, when he wants to send a letter, which, by the way, has always done well, until now, until this year, who decided that he didn't do so, just as the more expensive the light was, you will explain to the Greeks why he did it that way. But when he wants to, he always does well, he even sends letters to the media to communicate with you, with each other. So he's not holding a continuous lie to save the image of a president of a confederation, because you have an obligation as a Member, which is to save not the image, but Galicia's natural heritage. We have already explained in committee that the opposite would be unconstitutional, since there is a doctrine of the Constitutional Court on the compatibility of autonomous competences to protect fish resources and powers in the field of hydraulic uses. In this case, the Constitutional points out that the counsellor's intervention can only be done through the concession and the conca organ. There's no other way, Mr. Aranguena, that's the one established by law and the one established by regulation. That is why it would be good to review the existing water regulations, especially in the state legislation and in particular in the recast text of the Water Law and Article 52 thereof, and in the Rules of Procedure of the Commission on De Embalses. Both texts determine that it is the President of the Hydrographic Confederation, which must set limits to the emptied, not the waters of Galicia, not the Environmental Council; for that it is the Lord; and therefore avoid the possible environmental effects. And there are no other interpretations here either. The only thing you're looking at is an ignorance, or, if it's not ignorance, you really want to conceal it very well. I conclude -- and I insist again -- : : the competences of these gatherings are state, it's the first time there's an emptying of these features in the last twenty years, and it happens that it's not because it's a bad hydrological year; on the contrary, it happens that it happens when more expensive is the receipt of light. Thank you very much, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u151	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica, Mr. Arunguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u152	Counselor, you're going around with the famous communication. They've already made a number of communications to you (the company itself, the Hydrographic Confederation itself, 112), but you should know that there can be no need for communication to defend the environment, because the environment defends itself, and therefore you, when there's environmental damage, do not need anyone's communication; this is pure common sense. And I could explain it more technically, but to tell you in common sense: it's logical, it's absurd what you're saying. If there is a damage to the environment, you need no one's communication, because they have to act on their own, because it says it all about Galician legislation and, frankly, all about Spain and Europe, which you don't seem to understand yet. And he told me they're not river crabs, that I was wrong; they're not river crabs -- you said -- they're mussels. Well, I told you that we're going back, like the crabs, in the environmental issue, and if you don't know, there are crabs in the rivers too, because it seems you haven't found out that there are not two species of crabs either: one autochthonous and another alien, which are in serious retreat in Galicia, the autochthonous, not the alien, which is expanding. [[Murmurs.]] That's why I talked about the backwardness of river crabs, but if you want to talk about river mussels too, because they're referred to in the sanctioning files. [[Applause]] In these sanctioning files, his environmental agents who are already suffering damage at the Bellesar embankment and elsewhere. Or haven't you read what your environmental agents say in their sanctioning files? So, Junta has to act, she can't wait for someone to communicate, not just open cosmetic sanctions files to cover up her shame. They tell Naturgy and Iberdrola what measures they have to take to protect, before even penalizing, because they can, by three laws. You don't quote me from the Constitutional Court, that you're upset that there's a Constitutional Court ruling; if that judgment is so, and your secretary of the council says that this prevents applying Article 83, as she said the other day, then they amend Article 83; it's that they have very clear; there's an article 83, use it, say what she says, it's very clear. And, Counselor, you said that I committed some crime by coming here I don't know what. Well, you -- I've already told you -- you don't understand much about laws; and you don't have to understand laws, frankly, you don't have to, if you let yourself be advised and you're interested in what you do. But the problem is that you don't bother to understand and be advised either, because, among other things, you have a history that invalidates you to defend the environment, talking about crimes, because you were mayor of Melide two laws and in those laws the industrial polygon of Melide, as you know perfectly well, has repeatedly contaminated the River Furelos, the river of your own people; you, being mayor, allowed and did absolutely nothing to remedy it, despite being fined and noticed this municipality by the waters of Galicia. And you know that there is a report from Seprona, in the Arzua Instruction Court, that recommends charging by prevarication, by default, all those who have occupied municipal responsibilities since 2004, that is, you, among others, because you think there is -- as I say -- hints of default prevariation. In any case, why do you talk about sanctions for 2 million euros, when the sanctioning files are for 25,000 euros? You're cheating on citizenship. Because you should know, or should tell him, that there is a rule of law called non bis in idem, that says that you cannot sanction the same facts twice, and you have opted for the lowest penalty, the fishing law, of 25,000 euros, but then you speak of the highest, of 2 million euros, but you cannot apply it, because you would violate the principle not bis in idem. Why do I have to explain these things to you in this parliament, Counselor? I shouldn't explain these things to you, you've got technicians. The best evidence, on the other hand, that state legislation did not allow the State to act is that the Government has just amended Article 55 of the Water Law to deal with these cases. Because, if you amend Article 55, it's because you didn't allow it before; otherwise, you wouldn't change Article 55. But, on the other hand, you have an autonomous regulation that sets out very clear obligations for control, inspection and sanction, and that I'm telling you again -- it allows for preventive and precautionary measures to be imposed on the Galician Union. And when Junta was reported on June 10, -- it's been a hundred and ten days -- and reports from environmental agents say there's environmental damage, it's incredible that the Government of Galicia is just trying to derive responsibility for the state when it has a legal obligation to protect the environment in Galicia. They abandon, Counselor, Scapism, they abandon inaction, and they fulfill the obligations of their own legislation, to vary, even if only to vary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u153	Thank you, Mr. Aranguena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u154	Closure of the inquiry, Environmental, Territory and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Aranguena, I have to tell you that when I ruled in Melide I have always done it for the most part; I have a good memory. When you rule, you always do -- you know -- the hand of who's tending to them, because they don't have one or two concellers, and just when death occurs in the rivers, it's when you rule. By the way, I've had months with an agreement to fund a third of the debugger (a third of the MP, a third of the Galician Union, a third of the municipality) and they're not yet made available to the Galician Union for land. [[Applause]] Having said this, I would like to reiterate that if I ruled it was because my neighbors wanted it, which I naturally owe, I still owe it to myself. Let's continue, to tell you, really, that you are the one who defends here, defends the interests of the Greeks or simply forgets that there was a Hydrographic Confederation? Secondly, the only ones we're acting on were the Galician Union. But you want to tell the president of the Confederation that once and for all opens files, that once and for all comes out of his lethargy, because it looks like he's in a continuous nap or, if not, he's stressed by other things and he doesn't look, but he says that something is going to be done and today they haven't done anything, which is he who has the competitions! That he is president of that confederation, that he has allowed the emptying, that he is an attack from the point of view of the natural heritage. But, of course, we have already acted, Mr. Aranguena. How should I tell him? We act and, according to the law, we give the necessary time to make their claims; to the President of the Confederation, sanctions; to the hydroelectrics, sanctions. What did the president of the Confederation do? Where have you got it? It's just, look, from here I don't even see. The only one who acted was the Galician Union. I don't know what happens to you with that gentleman. Do you want me to go to the scene and give you a picture of Mr. Sánchez with that gentleman too? But there are no names or surnames here, here is the action of the Galician Union in its choirs. Last week Galician waters sanctioned a hydropower plant with EUR 1.9 million, and the action of the Environmental Council, because it does not act the President of the Confederation, with two sanctions: on the one hand, through continental river fishing, and on the other hand through natural heritage. And I'm telling you... I'm sorry? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, but saying pornography, spanking, you change your vocabulary a little bit. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, said that, and it seems that wanting to give the hydroelectrics and the President of the Confederation the reason we're going to sign, you mean we're not going to go ahead with the two sanctions? You're really kidding. Look, there's no error in processing, it's all well done, there's an instructor, this instructor is an official, the studies are under way, and we'll get there if we can up to 2 million euros. And I want you to insist that the only ones we're acting are us. But you copy what's done well, copy from Galician Waters, which is the one that has the competence in the rest of Galician coronations, where, by the way, your level is above the last year, against the applause of which the President of the Confederation, Mr Quiroga, and therefore responsible for the Ministry of Ecological Transition, which has been at least the minimum in the last 20 years. Mr. Aranguena, we want to know, and of course we want to know, and they have to investigate it, and they have to do it in Congress, because it is their competence, on the one hand, why did you not respect these four Mino-Sil embassies the normal regime of the caudals; they have to explain it. On the other hand, because legislation on river fishing and even natural heritage has not been respected in this case. And I repeat to you that it's the first time it's done wrong, it's always done well. Thirdly, we also want to know why a minimum supply of water has been put at risk in these coronations, which is terrible for natural heritage, but it could also be terrible for its neighbours and neighbours. And I remind you that when you act in a fire, you had to draw the helicopters somewhere else, because there they couldn't make the corresponding load. We are the only administration that has taken these real measures to try to clarify the event. We don't know anything about the Ministry of Ecological Transition, we don't know anything about the President of the Confederation. Be sure that we will continue to discharge responsibilities. We don't care about the noise being made or the strategy of confusion; in the end time they give us reason, and that time is: review the sanctions they put when ruling the Bipartite, BNG and PSOE, 400 euros of hydroelectric sanctions; in the case of those who say they are friends of each other, up to 2 million euros, effective last week through the waters of Galicia. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u156	Thank you, Counselor. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] We move on to item 8 of the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government. Question by Mr Borja Verea Fraiz and six other Members, by Mr P. Popular de Galicia, on the balance made by the Government of Greece of the aid allocated from Galicia to travel agencies and to tour operators to deal with the situation of cover-19
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u157	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u158	Thank you, President. Vice-President, if there's a subsector within the value chain of tourism that hasn't happened well these months, even dramatic months, it's the travel agencies and tour operators sector. This is not the first time in this chamber to analyze the situation of this collective, a collective that is fundamental to the projection outside of the offers of tourism in Greece, which serve as a showcase for all our tourist industries, offers that according to the balance of these months and the tourist influence are working. Our sector, our tourism industry is working with that mix of safety, quality, sustainability, and here are the data, which you can probably examine for the most part the vice president, and therefore a few months that have meant relief for the whole tourist industry, and in particular for travel agencies. These businesses have a peculiar cost structure, fixed costs that have, from civil liability insurance, different policies, maintenance of computer applications and software for the purchase of tickets as well as for hotel reserves themselves, the own expenses of fixed settlements, mortgages, rents, also in the peaks of the waves the cancellations and those necessary in any case repatriations. So this whole cost structure wasn't accompanied -- as I say -- in some months with no income, and so at some point there's some situation in some months even dramatic. In this parliamentary group we know that the Galician Union has been from the very first moment on the side of this sector, on the side of travel agencies, not only through the general support lines, as were the rescue plans, of which we must remember that half of the funding of this rescue plan has reached the tourist sector, and of course also these travel agencies, but also triggered more specific support lines, specific programmes for this sector. Over the year and a half of the pandemic, and also finished this summer season, this parliamentary group would like to know what is the balance that the Galician Union makes of the different supports that since the first day, since the beginning of the health crisis, the Galician Union has been active with travel agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u159	Thank you, Mr Verea. Response from the Vice-President, Prime Minister, Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Verea, indeed, there have been many damage due to the circumstances of the pandemic, of the restrictions, of the things that have had to be done drastically in many aspects of life, and therefore everything that affects mobility and therefore the basis of the work of travel agencies has been very directly affected. And it's true that we often talk about, and rightly, the effect on hospitality, the effect and the tourist impact that is most seen by the number, by the type of work that is open to the public, but it's true also that there is a very important sector in Galicia with large firms besides, there is a lot of autonomy with great professionalism, but there are also very large companies, wholesalers, who are responsible for bringing a lot of tourists to Galicia every year, and not only Galicia, also to Spain as a whole, and making packages that are more and more loyal to those people who come and give them more added value. So they started to go very badly and they asked, as is logical, to help all administrations and also the Galician Union, especially when international mobility began to be an absolute utopia, when travels in groups were implantable, as you said came the last-minute cancellations, the closures of hotel settlements that had agreed reservations. Well, all that, as is logical to suppose, has affected them very directly, and therefore we have worked from the very first moment to help them, to make a little reminder, and the most important and differentiated help, because it's true that they also later entered another series of global packages. With the two majority associations in the sector, Attrega and Agavi, here in Galicia, we made a first aid package of 500,000 euros at first of all, to try to redirect the tourist packages that were already hired, which were being canceled and therefore to try not to lose or at least not to lose in their entirety those reserves that were made, guiding them to another type of destination or other type of tourism that could still be done when mobility was being restricted. Then came the rescue plans, the two rescue plans of the Galician Union, and it's probably more but identified without any doubt as travel agencies benefiting from these direct aid rescue plans, 743 aids, 2.4 million euros, which were directly to the travel agencies requested as such travel agency. Then there were other applications where they also entered and would be more than these 743. We also helped the tourist guides, very directly connected to their work with travel agencies, 520,000 euros, and then we started with a specific plan for them, 2.4 million euros, as you said, to pay the civil liability policies, 1.2 million euros to help them pay when they didn't have any income for renting places, mortgage quotas, 1.2 million euros, 130 tips. And besides, everything that has to do with the tourist bonus, which is dealt with in many cases through the travel associations in the case of packages, the Plan "Elixe Galicia", specifically directed to travel agencies, and all the advantages that they had due to the insurance cover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u161	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Verea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u162	Thank you, President. From the parliamentary group to bless the German Government by accompanying travel agencies along this hard journey since the health crisis began. The best news is undoubtedly the data of tourist affluence, which are reflecting that our tourist industries are being able to reinvent themselves with those three lines of work that we mentioned earlier, quality, safety, sustainability; sustainability not understood as a hollow word, but as having that objective that the wealth generated remains in the local environment, and that we also take advantage of resources but leaving in the best conditions for future generations. So, from this parliamentary group, to insist on this parabenization, and in any case to ask whether other administrations have accompanied this subsector in the same way, this sector of travel agencies and tour operators, and you could also make a small balance of the tourist affluence data in the summer season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u163	Thank you, Mr Verea. The question is closed, first Vice-President and President-in-Office of Justice and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u164	Well, direct and specific help as the Galician Union led to travel agencies, not at least not to Galician Union. It doesn't mean they're going into other administrations. Some have already done so and others have not done anything directly directed to tourism. So there's some deputation around there. So travel agencies didn't touch anything at all, either. And it is true that they benefited from the ERTE. The president of the Galician Board with the Minister of Labour, when he had the interview two weeks ago, specifically transferred a request from these professionals for the extension of the ERTE -- those who need them -- until the month of March next year, which is when it would start -- we hope that in an absolutely normal way -- the start of the high tourist season from the Holy Week. We haven't had a specific answer yet. We hope that this will be the case and that these professionals will be able, if needed, to extend the ERTEs to that date. That would be good news from the central government. And, of course, the Galician Council asked for it, argued it, and we hope it will. In the meantime, we're going to continue helping, that's clear, I think there's a few doubts. We were the only autonomous community that improved the August data regarding the year 2019, year without pandemic and year very good for Greek tourism. We're improving that data. We have increased by 20% to the average national improvement over 2020, and we have increased by 75% of the employment quotas Q in Galicia by 2020, which was already better than in the state as a whole, this year 2021. That's because of a lot of factors. That word begins to repeat more and more outside. Galicia is fashionable and has been fashionable in the summer -- that we want it to continue being --. That was due to a lot of things, but without any doubt, to the work of travel agencies, for a lot of direct advertising campaign to be done, no matter how much effort is made from administrations -- of course, the Galician Board sincerely believes we have done so --. And all these fruits are also due to the fact that magnificent professionals are responsible for moving all that and moving that sense of security, that feeling of tranquillity to travel to Galicia, to choose us as destination, especially those who used to choose other destinations within the Peninsula and on the islands, and are coming to Galicia. And in that the travel agencies have a lot to do, apart from the work they do for the Greeks to travel abroad. So let's keep helping them. There's now a much better help package than the previous one, because fortunately it's not so necessary anymore, but it's still necessary to contribute to paying rent expenses, mortgage quotas... we're going to continue doing it and there's a published aid just a short time ago -- last week -- of 6 million euros for something fundamental. The new tourism will demand much more computer applications, there will be much more competition and competitiveness among travel agencies for online bookings, online promotion... all that favors this new type of tourism, which directly sees the values of travel safely. All this on the networks, and it's clear that it's already being done now and there's going to be a lot more. And we need an important investment there, 6 million euros that we make available and that we think it's going to assume the definitive take-off again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u165	Thank you. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u166	...of some companies that went through it quite frankly. Thank you very much. Question from Da Paloma Castro Rey and three other Members, from G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the search by the Galician Union for a new location for the company Ence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u167	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u168	Thank you, President. Wait, President, who would wait for the councillor to sit down. Can I have your time again, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u169	Yes, yes. Start whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u170	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, since June of this year, in which the Judgment of the National Audience has been published, a remedy by Greenpeace and the Pontevedra Council against the granting of the sixtieth-year extension to the Ence company, the attitude of the Government of the United States has been on a continuous basis. Instead of taking on the role that the German Government is responsible for, they have dedicated themselves to proposing foreign solutions, which have much more populists than in reality. You, as a competent industrial development adviser in Galicia, on June 11th -- day after knowing the failure -- talked about claiming a technical requirement to Ence for transfer and asking for State assistance through the Next Generation funds. One day later, on June 20, he said, "We'll be proactive and we'll ask the Government to get involved," and he emphasized the need for dialogue to achieve a solution by saying, "We didn't see any other scenario that wasn't Ence in Lourizán, but, given the current context, we have to find a solution that will guarantee industrial activity and current employment." We don't know, Mr. Counsellor, what happened to him on vacations, whether he had a little call from Madrid or some high office of the company, because his position has changed, to the point of defending the indefensible and supporting positions of dubious legality. On September 2, around the holidays, you defended permanence in Lourizán as the only alternative, above all, even the law, and asked the Government not to execute the sentence. Counsellor, ask the State to commit an offence of disobedience! And his partner, Vice President Rueda -- what a pity he is no longer! on that line, to see who has the greatest of the incidents -- asked the Government of the State to amend the law to ensure the viability of the company in Lourizán; that is, ask the Government to prevent it! [[Applause]] You haven't spent a month of this and now you have another foreign solution: promise workers and workers another solution to the knowledge of the legal impossibility of it, with a totally painful behavior; a solution such as integrating the pastry into the land of the Harbour Authority of Marin, creating false expectations for workers and workers at work. Meanwhile, they also talk about another pastry to finish the cycle in the Coruña and complement that of Lourizán and increase the jobs; a fantasy. But they go down to reality. The reality is that we're talking about something very serious and the attitude of the Union is becoming a disincentive. They can't continue to cheat and support the company, they have to demand a morally desirable behavior, such as ensuring in legal terms the work of their workers and workers, who have been loyal all this time for all these years. Mr. Conde, don't be fooled. Stop screwing around. The bread of many families depends on the success of their management, takes the bull by the horns, and finds a real alternative to the stay of Cence in our territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Castro, I am grateful that you acknowledge in this parliament that the only ones we are looking for a solution for workers in Lourizán are we, indeed, the Unity of Galicia and the People's Group, and that, unfortunately, the Socialist Party, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Government of Pedro Sánchez are neither expected nor expected. And unfortunately we're talking about five thousand families that are happening right now because of the uncertainty that can happen with their future and that can happen with the future of the factory of Ence. That's why I would ask you a little measure in your expressions and above all to move the most out of respect, and would also suggest support for the workers themselves, workers who deserve, first of all, the truth. And the truth is, Mrs. Castro, is that the five thousand families that depend on Ence, Lourizán, are in this situation because both the Socialist Party of Galicia and the Nationalist Block of Galicia have decided to close Ence. That was your decision by a political decision, and therefore we are in this situation precisely because you adopted this position, ignoring your own demand for the situation of the pastry, when there was no problem, there was a solution. You had a solution and you caused the problem. I therefore believe that we deserve the workers and the Council of Galicia a respect, which unfortunately the Socialist Party of Galicia is not moving. We're actually looking for solutions for Ence to stay in Lourizán, because we understand that's the position that the workers themselves are trying at the moment, and we want to do it from legality. And, therefore, we will not make any proposals that are not within the framework of legality. The works council has indeed transferred to us a possibility that we can contemplate the fact that not only the land of Ence but attached land may be part of the land of the Harbour Authority. And what we're going to do, Mrs. Castro, is move this consultation to the Advisory Council to see its legality and, therefore, to see if there's a solution. We'll work on that solution and, if that's not the solution, we'll continue to move it into any other way that allows workers to keep their jobs. Unfortunately, you're the only one who's worried about closing Ence, and we're feeling it enormously. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u173	Thank you very much, Vice President. For the reply, Mrs. Castro Rey has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u174	Thank you, President. Mr. Conde, don't mess with legal reports anymore. They don't waste any more time. The possibility of integrating the pastry in the Harbour Authority of Marín already knows that it is not viable, was formulated in 2015 and rejected by the Ministry of Development for going against the Law of economic regime and provision of services in ports of general interest. Five technical reports supported this; one, from Professor Francisco Javier Jiménez de Cisneros, a referent in Administrative Right, Professor da Autonoma de Madrid, who affirmed -- and I will literally read -- : "It would be an artificial inclusion and impact with enormous conceptual and frontal violence with the general mandate of the law, in the sense that they can only be carried out within the service area of the ports activities, facilities and constructions according to port uses and maritime signage". So don't keep giving workers false expectations. The report presented by the transferability company in Lourizán is a partial report, which was not even valid to distort the judicial decision. So what are they doing real so far to secure the jobs of the workers of Ence? I'm not an engineer, but I can't believe, by common sense, that you can't move that company. Why don't they charge the public prestigious university that we have in Galicia and the recognized professionals with an objective report and a viable report looking for another location in our territory to secure jobs? Don't get on the side of the company, get on the side of the workers. The company is acting in an intransigent and unacceptable and disloyal way with all these workers and workers, who are giving it all, to get the benefits, like the 12 million euros in the last quarter, all these years. So you have full competence in industry, industrial development. He's been counseling since 2012, he can't say that the one from Ence, the one from Ferrovial, the one from Barreras or the one from Vestas and a long list no longer goes with you, he's going to work! They said in my house: there's no shortcut without work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u175	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Castro, it is evident in this parliament that the Socialist Party of Galicia does not, in fact, support the legal solution proposed by the workers to keep the factory in Lourizán. There you are! We, of course, have made it clear from the Council of Galicia, and we will continue to be with the workers, because that's what they're asking us to do. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Castro, neither the Cence workers nor the Galician board do we know where the government leader is from what you so much consider. Surely this leadership will not be able to find you in Vice President Third and Minister for the Ecological Transition, who does not sit on the dialogue table. Surely you can't find that leadership either in the fact that vice president second and minister of work -- Galicia, by the way -- tell the workers that closing the factory is not their competition, as if employment -- at least employment in Galicia -- is not their competence. Even the fact that the Government's vowels in the Harbour Authority of Marín also voted that they would not appear in the defence of the extension of the concession. Or perhaps the government leader will surely follow the way people are lying, as he's used to us sadly in the case of Ence, in the case of Alcoa, in the case of Vestas too. And I sincerely believe that if the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block are safe -- so you move -- that there is an alternative location, you could probably move it. We, of course, don't have that data. What we have is the assurance that we will continue to work to give a solution to the location of Ence in Lourizán. That's our goal, we'll do it from legality. And we will continue to work, against the position of the Socialist Party, against the position of the Galician Nationalist Block and against the position of the Government of Spain. But we are going to look for reasons, arguments and legal issues that justify that these jobs can actually be maintained. I would simply ask you, Mrs Castro, that the Socialist Party of Galicia cease to be the spokesperson of the Government who is closing companies in Galicia and for once begin to defend the interests of the Greek workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u177	Thank you, Vice President. Let's move on to the next question. Question from Patricia Otero Rodríguez and two other Members, from G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the closure of the Vestas factory in Chavín, in the municipality of Viveiro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u178	To put the question, you have the word of Mrs. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u179	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Welcome, Mr. Count. First of all, I would like to show all the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for those 115 workers and Vesta workers who today meet with this closing announcement and the ERE that is already in operation. So all the support of this Socialist Parliamentary Group. And you can't even end the slightest doubt about the commitment of the government team of Viveiro and, in particular, of their mayor, Maria Loureiro, to these workers, and so has proved it with various facts that we all have in our retina. [[Applause]] Last September 20 we received a new catch for the future of our region, for the region of the Navy. This was the announcement of the closure of the Vestas factory in Chavín, which says it will close its facilities before the end of 2021. The decision that the management of the multinational airline company justifies for reasons of demand and puts at risk 115 direct jobs would, as I said, represent a hard economic blow to our region, to the region of the Navy, affected by various business closures and the attempt to relocate another multinational of aluminium production. Look, the bad faith shown by Vestas with his workers is total. All of a sudden these workers found a letter giving them the company's management to start that consultation period, at the same time or even after the multinational itself announced this announcement of closure in the press. Previously, the management of the company had told them nothing about the problems or the closure decision. That bad faith was also demonstrated the other day at that meeting to start the ERE consultation period at the company Vestas was not worth any solution and all I wanted was to put the clock into operation so that it would pass that time. Therefore, since the Galician Union was unable to paralyze that employment regulation file, something that Mr. Conde asked the central government in the case of Alcoa, it's time they put their duties from then on to the company. Because you, like me, know they have the power to make this company more complicated to carry out this job regulation file. But of course what is essential to this day is that you call already, because it's your competition, that industrial table to look for an alternative to this job maintenance. So, what will the Galician Union do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u180	Thank you very much, Mrs. Otero. Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Applause]] Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Otero, indeed the Galician Union has received, like the workers, the news of the presentation of this employment regulation file, and therefore, as you can imagine, from the very first moment to our concern and occupation is to identify how we can address this situation in order to find a solution. That's why on Monday we met with the Vestas Business Committee and moved it to count on the support of this administration in the search for this solution. As you can imagine, we can't be more against what's happening and, of course, we will do everything possible. I'm the one who, if I want to move you, is that we have to be all and that the situation with Vestas is not a timely situation, it has a reason to be. As you can imagine, Vestas is a company that is dedicated to the wind sector, and therefore everything that happens around the wind sector somehow has a direct impact on the decision it has adopted Vestas. And you know perfectly well that the energy policy currently being adopted in Spain is precisely against industry in Galicia and that it is generating industrial dismantling in Galicia. They decided to close the thermals, as you know, and they took the jobs of Endesa and Meirama ahead. They're not putting a stop to increasing the price of light and they're jeopardizing the future of the whole industry, as is Alcoa and Alu Iberian, they're kicking out of the River Ence, and now, after years, ladies, without betting for an orderly wind development, it seems the Socialist Party is surprised that you're getting your clothes together with Somozas and that you're not making airliners in Galicia. In the short run, the Socialist Party of Galicia is not supporting the development of the wind sector either. You will explain to me how we are going to keep factories linked to the wind sector if we have a Socialist Party and a Galego Nationalist Block that are against the wind development itself in Galicia and that they have repeatedly demanded in this chamber and in the councils the paralysis of the wind sector. Therefore, Mrs. Otero, a little realism. We work together to defend the Vesta workers. But that means that the Socialist Party must stop supporting the energy policy that is leading us to a situation of inability of the wind industry in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u182	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mrs. Otero Rodríguez has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u183	Thank you, President. Look, we from the PSdeg are not against the development of the wind sector, we are against the way that the Galician Union carries out this development. And to show you a button: what Mr. Feijóo said today in the morning, he boasted of zero mills, not zero mills in the year 2020. So, that punctuality. Look, Mr. Conde, you yourself the other day with the legal representatives of the workers has committed to convening this table of industry for Vestas, because you've committed yourself, because you're the one with the competences. Because the ERE is set here in our autonomous community; because the factory lies here in our autonomous community; and because the competences are of the Galician Union, and you in particular -- well, the Greek Government -- have the exclusive competences in industrial matters. So stop throwing balloons out, concentrate and don't be all the time trying to look for enemies. It is essential to be coordinated, it is essential to go hand in hand, but of course we must also focus on and say that the competences are exclusive to the Council of Galicia. So, you, who committed yourself to the workers the other day to convene that table for industry, for the Vesta industry, to look for alternatives to this maintenance of jobs, why not summon it? Don't you have any powers to summon her? Get her now. From this parliamentary group we ask you to keep the promise you made the other day to the Vesta workers. Of course, then the competition is from Galician Union in this case. So stop throwing balloons out. But we do not hide from this group that the collaboration of other administrations and, in particular, the Central Government is also necessary. So it's time to get to work and look at the future as well towards that much-needed reindustrialization plan in our region. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Otero. Replica from the Government. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Otero, don't confuse people. The Vestas situation is not a matter of competence, it is simply a subject of political will, of political will, and therefore of what energy policy we want to develop in this country. [[Murmurs.]] And if we want to develop an energy policy linked to wind development, that energy policy must necessarily support industry, and unfortunately this is not happening in this country. That's what's happening. [[Applause]] So I think I should leave that slogan of industrial policy competences and come back to reality, because reality is the only thing that will be able to keep employment in the wind industry in our country. And you should know that this government did the first thing you did to convene the first meeting with the workers was to convene the Government of Spain. Away, Mrs. Otero, away. Do you think it's reasonable? Does it seem reasonable to you that when we are talking about 115 jobs linked to the wind sector and necessarily to energy policy, the Government is absent? Not this government. We're certainly not going to leave the workers, but I think we have to tell the truth. And the truth is, Mrs Otero, if there is no change in attitude on the part of the Government of Spain in relation to the wind sector, it will not be possible to maintain jobs and wind industries in Galicia. That's the reality. Therefore, the Government of Spain would have to position itself. And let's hope that he will stand next to the Vesta workers and, therefore, from his energy policy, send clear messages of whether he will really support wind development in Galicia or not support it. I'll give you a clue to the government's collaboration in the development of the wind sector. I'd like to know that you disagree, because you're against the wind development of this government. What I can tell you is that right now we have already informed 47 projects that are being processed from the Ministry of the Government of Spain and, unfortunately, with those negative reports, the ministry continues to process. You want to explain why? And do you want to explain to me why the Government of Spain does not coordinate with the Council of Galicia in the development of the wind sector? Unfortunately this energy policy, Mrs Otero, is leading to the closure of wind industries in Galicia and Spain. And that's a reality that unfortunately lies in the curriculum of the Socialist Party of Galicia, supported by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u186	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question by D. Xosé Luís Rivas Cruz and D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures provided by the Government of Greece regarding the contaminants produced in the Piñor Regatta, to see their waters in the River Furelos, in Melide
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u187	To put the question, Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u188	Thank you very much, President. In the so-called Piñor River, which saw its waters in the Furelos River, the short distance from the industrial polygon of the Madanela, on the ground of the Natura Network, on the neighbouring mountain, on July 10th, were detected remaining streams of water coming from all the lights of the greatly damaged polygon. A derivation of the waters of this stream is observed by means of a channel of about 60 cm wide, made on the top of an extension of about 2 hectares and which in turn has several perpendicular streams intended to distribute the waters contaminated by that entire surface. Cleans up a well-calculated and executed irrigation system. This surface is filled with existing natural wells, with a considerable population of wild ducks that grew there and with a mechanical dew a short time ago. The waters, after this infectious journey, return down these two acres around the stream of origin and part of them in the middle and middle of a public road. Once again, we see the obligation to politically denounce this situation. The poor sanitation of waste water and industrial greens of the Madanela polygon is an old matter, laid down in the years and the inactivity of the institutions responsible for ensuring compliance with the law. So far the greens went directly to the river Furelos through this stream of Piñor or Reboredo. Now, laughing at the creek, they go to the Furelos after inexplicable deviations to return equally to the ill-fated river, after a purifying walk through the space of Nature Network. Since the BNG we've come to ask you about the events you've reported, about the performances you've been doing, and about what you plan to do. The people of Melide and the region are tired of the indolence of the Government on this subject, of its apathy, of its bluishness to the wind, and the stream of Piñor, the Furelos and the Ulla are tired and any day Hannonlo makes note. The decay of the flora and the river fauna are the first symptom, then touch us, and now talk to us about biodiversity, green pact, environmental balance, optimal health of our waters. By the way, was anyone there? Did you see this piece of Nature Network full of rubble? It is. This is a picture of July, but September 7th is the same. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz shows a photograph.]] Or did you see this, which is part of that channel I'm talking about? [[Mr. Rivas Cruz shows a photograph.]] Have you seen the strings of the alpacas and other wastes?, in line with the environmental policies of the People's Party to make each space separated a dump. What position and action do they intend to take from the German Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u189	Thank you, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u190	...in front of these facts?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u191	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u192	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I'm sorry, you're here to bring up a matter of sanitation and greenery from the municipal networks and therefore -- I repeat again -- you're asking yourself about municipal responsibilities and competences. It doesn't seem to be quiet when I talk about municipal networks being within the competence of the municipalities themselves. There's the Law of Local Regime Bases. I repeat once again: Article 25, municipal networks, competence of the municipalities. Article 27 of the Galician Waters Act: the municipalities have the powers to check and to watch for these vegetables that they paint on the municipal network. So we're talking about municipal responsibility when we talk about sanitation and supplies and debugging. And I want to make it clear that there are neither errors nor bad interpretations, because the truth is, you should know that the vegetables, when they are produced, many of them, as is the case, are channeled by a municipal network, networks that often have deficiencies. The logic would be to have asked the Melide Town Hall, not the Galician Town Hall, because it's the Melide Town Hall who has to control the vegetation on the municipal network. In the waters of Galicia we control and sanction mid-greens, and the vegetables to the municipal network are municipal powers. From the waters of Galicia, for it helps ingenious. We're taking Melide's debugger. I don't know if you know. It has the privilege of Melide that the Council of Galicia will support not economically municipalities, but technically and administratively leading the town council. And, therefore, a titanic aid to the county. And in spite of that titanic aid, the county is not able to do the project to remove that greenery, to fix that net and lead the greenery to debugging, and therefore to comply with regulations. Of course, the waters of Galicia also did the project despite being municipal competition. The county is going a little slow, I'd say pretty slow, because the project is actually drafted, it's already been referred to the county, already last year, a project, a pumping station and plumbing for the purification of those waters at the debugger station that we've been taking from Galicia. It is true that the municipality does not make the land available and we cannot formalize that agreement to do the works. Some of the works that we have already proposed to third parties: one third of the council, one third to Junta de Galicia, one third to the deputy where they co-govern. I understand that you are already speaking and will be in line with co-financing these works to help the municipalities in these complex, complicated, costly skills, which are sanitation, purification and supply. It is a clear example of shortcomings and complications. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you're very concerned about eliminating polluting vegetables, they support the Law of the integral cycle of water, because it's to eliminate polluting greens, to help municipalities, which have many complications, and also to eliminate polluting greens. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u193	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr Rivas Cruz has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u194	Counselor, we're really tired of this pim, pam, pom and the house without barrier. Because you're an expert at shaking fleas, you shake everything out, you never have responsibility. And when the Environment Counsellor went for two mayoral mandates of Melide, was it also the responsibility of the council? Did they report it or the county? No, no, no, no. You don't care about the environment, you don't care about the water, no, no. [[Applause]] Because -- I repeat -- the situation of this water transvade of a stream is the same, that's done so, there's no responsibility. He didn't act there, everyone was in person, everyone was doing what he did, but nobody did anything. And this repeats itself, and it's years and years, since the foundation, since the occupation of the first occupations of the polygon of Madanela. This repeats itself, except for a period, a period that was used to stab and use it politically, except in the period when BNG ruled, which was concerned about looking for an EDAR, which then between here and there, don't you know?, as if things were done, here was... yes, yes, steamed, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing could be proved, because it was a usual practice of counseling. But you keep nagging your shoulders and there's nothing going on. It's just that we citizens of this country are drinking shit, because it's getting bigger, because EDARs work the way they work, and because you don't worry about checking, they don't worry about sanctioning, and they also lower the sanctions. I've been in the River Fishing Act's presentation and I know how you act; the very serious ones have gone seriously...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u195	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u196	...and they don't care about water.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u197	Thank you very much. For the Government's reply, Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u198	Balloons out, of course not. We help the municipalities in their jurisdictions, competences that are there in the Law of Local Regime bases; you should know it; and of course titanical help to the Melide Council in this case, already assuming the debugger; it is 8 million euros that are destined for purification in these years in which you have the operating contract, and of course it is a titanic aid, and how the Town Council is not able to do the project -- I insist -- we did it again in the waters of Galicia, helping the municipalities. I can't allow you, at all, to say I don't care about water. I'm aware that we can't live a single day without water. You should think about it because the Law of the Whole Water Cycle comes to help the municipalities, in a very complex matter, which is believed, demonstrated, and, as you say, I understand that it supports it. Because, of course, tell me you're drinking dirt, debuggers are working badly, so you have to fix it. They support the law, which is to help municipalities eliminate polluting vegetables. They come here politically all very pretty, but soon they don't want to offer real solutions when there's a real problem. Of course we're working to help all the municipalities, all the same. I think if we're helping Tomino take the debugger with an ingenious and titanic help. Well, Your Honor, I don't think there's any reason to laugh when a council doesn't meet its municipal network and it's sending excess flow to the debugger who manages the waters of Galicia, and it's the rest of the Greeks who have to pay for the incompetent and incoherence of the Town Council, where the BNG rules. [[Murmurs.]] So you should look at it, you should re-examine what's going on in that matter. [[Applause]] From the waters of Galicia we came to work and help the Melide Town Hall -- I insist -- with the debugger. I think all the municipalities in Galicia have the same right to be helped by the administrations in these matters, which are complex, complicated and expensive. I have mayors from different political parties who know the need for us to help them, not only to do infrastructure but also to provide services, because the provision of services is what affects the quality of water. If you're so worried about water and water quality -- I insist -- read the law again. The law is a voluntary accession to improve not only infrastructures but above all to exploit them well. And a network audit, which is basic in this law, can not only save costs today, but all the cost in the future and inefficiencies in the future. Therefore, network audits, essential. It's a law that doesn't deny reality, it's a reality that you just confirmed. So I insist again: support the Law of the integral water cycle, because it's to help the municipalities in this very complicated matter, it's to eliminate contaminant greens, which seem to worry you. So if you really care about him, you support the draft law. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u199	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and three other Members of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego on the measures planned by the German Government to prevent the Casalonga quarry, in the municipality of Teo, from becoming a waste dump
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u200	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u201	Mr. Count, very good morning. We are here today to convey to you the concern of the vicinity of the Casalonga, of the "Free House of Waste" platform, to which we would like to thank you for your four-year exemplary struggle in defense of your parish, its territory, against that dump you want to impose on it. [[Applause]] And we want to bring you questions from this platform and from this neighborhood. The first is: why is a waste company called Toysal interested in restoring an abandoned quarry? Don't you think it's suspicious that a waste company has these intentions? Why does a waste company intend to invest 134,000 euros in restoring a quarry? Has Toysal now, sanctioned by many environmental crimes, become an environmental NGO? Why did Junta approve an expropriation file of more than a mile from a public road to favor the interests of this company? Why does Junta not protect, as it has repeatedly been asked, wells, wetlands that have high environmental values and that should be part of the inventory of wetlands? Well, you've already said they were useless, but at least put it in this log to protect them. And I'll tell you why this is all about, Counselor. This happens because the company and Junta have been trying to create a waste dump in Casalonga since 2017, a dump, not a mining operation, because this company is not dedicated to this. This is a waste company that has a serious problem because they closed the Somozas plant, because they also closed the Miramontes dump, and it needs a place to carry industrial waste and construction and demolition waste. And at Casalonga they've tried twice, they've tried two attempts, they've stopped him mostly for the mobilization of the neighborhood of Casalonga. And now they come with a third attempt. And what they really want there is to create a macro-greenhouse. By the way, there's an alarm, there's an alert all around Compostela, from north to south, from Miramontes, from Date to Casalonga, because Compostela is threatened by a real mega-megaverthetore circus; in this case, a mega-megavertetore in which more than ten million tons of construction and demolition waste is buried, as well as industrial waste. A big ballad, in which many millions of euros are moved; it is estimated that around fifty million euros in this operation, in that real plaza they want to commit. And we want to ask you a very clear question, Counsellor: will you allow the creation of a mega-degree of polluting industrial waste in Casalonga?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u202	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr. Conde López has the floor of the second vice president and councillor for Economics, Enterprise and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Bará, once again the Galician Nationalist Block trying to intoxicate reality. I'm sorry that you, who are specialists in mixing everything and then drawing conclusions that seem appropriate, speak of millions of euros and megaprojects and megaverteries. Here, Mr Bará, we're going to refer ourselves to reality, because people have the right to know reality. And the reality is that we're talking about a mining concession, dedicated to the exploitation of arids. This is the first: mining concession dedicated to the exploitation of arids, which is regulated by the activity license you have since 1978 and which we are therefore applying to the law. It is curious that the Galician Nationalist Block seeks to criticize the Galician Union for applying the law. It's even more curious, Mr Bará, that you intend to criticize the Galician Council for applying a law that you have passed. Bipartito, in 2008, Galician mining law. It's funny, isn't it? Mr. Bará, it's funny. In any case, as you well know, the holder of the current concession is developing a mining activity and, as long as he meets all the technical, urban and environmental conditions, he has the right to develop this activity, unless you ask this government to violate the law. And, therefore, we will continue to work and establish all the established requirements. You're talking about the restoration plan. Mr. Bará, if I wanted to tell people the truth, I would have to point out that the Galician Council rejected two proposals from the company, because it understood that the restoration plan they were presenting was not adjusted to the regulations. Indeed, at this time we have approved the update of the restoration plan on 11 August, because it actually introduces all requirements to comply with that set out in Royal Decree 975/2009. So, Mr Bará, please stick to reality. Don't try to fool people. Here we are talking about arid exploitation activity. I'm sorry you keep trying to trick people into talking about a dump. And please stop poisoning, because the mining industry doesn't deserve it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u204	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u205	Mr. Conde, you're talking about poisoning. Whoever's intoxicating is you, and they know it well in Miramontes and in many parishes in this country that suffer these dumps, these canterias converted into industrial garbage dumps, with contaminated rivers. [[Applause]] And you say you rejected two projects. Of course, they rejected them because they had an absolute opposition with mobilizations, with allegations, both from the Town Hall and the platform, and from the BNG too, that they were faced with and there was no other one left. [[Applause]] Look, you guys have a lot of problems and a lot of hot potatoes here. The first is an absolute lack of transparency, because I have to remind you that they don't give the documentation to the platform or give it to the BNG. Two years ago we filed a request for article 9 of seven documents, and we are waiting for them. And I'm telling you clearly -- it's a warning -- if they don't send us to Parliament, we'll go and look for them, see them. It's good that they're hiding the documentation. [[Applause]] Do you know what the problem is, too? That your council is under suspicion, Mr. Count. They have several judicial investigations above for environmental prevarication: Varilongo, San Fins... of course, you can reposition the former Director General. Well, by the way, there's also a member of this House, a member of the People's Party, who, as far as he's gone, hasn't touched the issue yet, but everything will come. And be careful, it won't also be that you fall now on this subject, on this well, in the well of Casalonga. [[Applause]] The problem is, you're the fox looking after the chicken, and you're sponsoring a big operation to turn canteries across the countryside into large spills. And that's how you treat rural people: turn it into a dump. The rural people don't want to live in a dumpyard, they want to live decently and with quality of life in the countryside. So they know we won't let them, we won't let them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u206	Thank you, Mr Bará. Mr. Conde López has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u207	The truth is, Mr Bará, that today I'm going to recognize his inventive ability; he'd probably be a perfect Hollywood writer, but we're not in Hollywood, Mr Bará, we're in Galicia, and we're talking about a mining activity regulated by law and therefore subject to its own regulations. It's funny that when the government gives reason to the Nationalist Block Galego it turns out that it's because of the mobilization of platforms, and when it doesn't give it the reason, even if it meets the law, it turns out that we're prevaricating or trying to favor certain companies. Look, Mr Bará, the Galician Council acts in accordance with the law, acts with rigour and acts with technical and legal criteria. And you should know that the restoration plan of this activity involves the development of a forest plan. Nothing to do with a dump. If you want to make a film, they do it, but the restoration plan that's approved is a forest use of these lands. You want to tell me where the problem is? You want to tell me where he is? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Surely, when you talk to me about transparency, why not look at the website? Does it seem to you little transparency that this restoration plan is open to all the public to consult through the website? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Does it seem to you little transparency? Does it seem to you that there is little transparency that the restoration plan approved by the Government, including forest use, can be accessible to all citizens? Mr. Bará, it's very sad to see how BNG uses mining jobs, uses mining industry jobs to make ideology. It's truly regrettable. And that's all right, Mr Bará, that's all right, because people don't deserve to be intoxicated. [[Applause]] And, above all, people don't deserve to be told the truth. We're not talking about a dump, we're talking about an extractive activity of arids, we're talking about a restoration plan that involves forest use. That's the reality. And, of course, if the company fulfills all the collection in that restoration plan, there will be no problems. And if you don't do it, Mr Bará, the Administration will act with total force. What can't be, is that you, once again, are against industry, employment and against Galicia, Mr Bará, against Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u208	Thank you very much, Vice President. Question from Da María del Carmen Rodríguez Dacosta and two other Members, from G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the reasons why the Galician Health Service does not increase the wages of the nursing staff according to the periods considered to be high and contribution by the Labour Inspectorate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u209	To put the question, Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u210	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Counsellor, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and, in particular, your spokesperson, Mr Torrado, has been complaining at parliamentary headquarters of the precariousness suffered by the workers and workers of Sergas due to the high timeliness in the recruitment conducted by the Council of Galicia, a terrible possibility which prevents them from growing professionally and in terms of reconciliation and which obliges them to be permanently on the side of the telephone. Sergas staff accumulates hundreds of contracts for days and hours, contravene the most basic labour regulations. This problem affects Sergas' statutory staff: nurses, nurses, administrative staff, janitors and janitors, physiotherapists, etc. In this context already in 2015 Ourense Satse's nursing union filed a complaint before the EOXI Labour Inspection Against EOXI Ourense-Verín-The Barco de Valdeorras, motivated that the contracts that were made consisted of Monday to Friday contracts, to give them off at the end of the week, Saturday and Sunday, to hire the same worker again that week from Monday to Friday and the next weekend of their discharge, and so on. Following this complaint, the Labour Inspectorate concluded in this sense: that Sergas contracts staff linked to the call contract fraudulently, that this modus operandi assumes a omission by the Administration of Preceptive Quotes of the days corresponding to the weekends and claims to undermine workers' rights, such as the right to weekly rest, causing them several prejudices, at least the time quoted, more time needed to generate trienniums, etc. In the face of this situation, the Inspectorate raises the clearance record without charge, because it is an administration, and obliges the Administration to correct this water. But this doesn't stay here. Besides that Sergas has continued to repeat year after year since 2015 the same fraudulent practice, it does not grant workers the wages corresponding to these days, they have to complain to the Administration, who denies this right, and turn to the prosecutions of the administrative dispute to pay them wages. This is the practice that follows your advice. And we wonder why Sergas doesn't give the workers and workers the periods that the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate obliges Sergas to attend and consider them out of office for all purposes. Thank you very much. In my first intervention, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u211	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u212	Thank you very much. Good morning, President. Mrs. Rodríguez, first of all, it is not true that Sergas maintains an irregular policy on recruitment of workers. Sergas manages more than 44,000 employees and employees, who are obviously entitled to holidays, permits, maternity leave and paternity. And in addition, the administration staff have at least six days of free will, which can be extended by antiquity; these permits are mostly enjoyed on working days from Monday to Friday. To make an idea, every year we manage 723 years, every year -- I repeat -- in free days. And all these emergencies give rise to temporary employment linked to the cause of their origin. And, no doubt, it is true that in the health area of Ourense, Verín and O Barco by the Labour Inspectorate and Social Security in recent years, inspectoral activities have been carried out that have resulted in the General Treasury of Social Security to dictate highs and lows of the profession of temporary workers of the Galego Health Service, concerning weekends and holidays, which mostly affect workers in the lists of short-term links. In the first years, from 2015 to 2016, Sergas did not resort to Treasury resolutions, so they were declared firm, and these resolutions give rise to the question you pose. In 2017 et seq., there were several new inspectoral actions in which Sergas came up with supporting documentation that believed that previous and post-weekly movements and holidays corresponded to individualized movements with different reasons or cases in different health centers. What new resolutions would the Treasury make by formalizing high and low. From Sergas we challenged that resolution, since the contracts were conducted according to law, and in the litigation-administrative way the judicial pronouncements understood so far are and were in favour of the Galician Health Service, by nullifying the action of the Treasury Labour Inspectorate, ratifying that the action of the health agency of Ourense, Verín and the ship of Valdeorras complied with the legislation. The action of Sergas was ratified by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, by the Dispute-Administrative Chamber, condemning the Treasury to nullify highs and lows of its own accord. Thus, in Judgment 146/2021 of the Third Chamber, of which Mr Luís Villares Naveira is rapporteur, he states that it does not in any case proceed to maintain this high status when we are faced with statutory replacement appointments, with a fixed duration, in which in no case there is an obligation to keep up to weekends and holidays. Even though we have pending the resolution of a resource, as you see, once again what you want to paint us is quite different from what really happens. First, things, often repeated, do not become reality and there is no worse lie than a half-truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u213	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Rodríguez Dacosta has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u214	Well, you're not telling the truth, because the Dispute-Administrative Judge says textually: that's because the present is not a contract on loose days, which is what you're referring to in your reply. It says: "or for different workplaces, but contracts bound up in which the sole purpose of the Administration is to save the payment of weekends and holidays, not only saving workers' amounts but the right to a paid rest." This is what Ourense's Dispute-Administrative Judge says. You were talking about loose day contracts because of an incidence we're not questioning. So, do you know what you want to save on salary costs? Almost half a million euros. Because, of course, we're talking about 1,767 irregular contracts threatened by social security itself. We are talking about almost 200,000 euros in social security contributions, specifically 189,580 euros. And we're talking about 4,339 days, which, about 80 euros, account for 350,320 euros due to the workers. I thought you'd answer differently, because, in addition, when the worker claims that they don't pay him those days, it turns out that you don't answer that claim. Then they make an up appeal and you dismiss that claim, and you have to go to the litigation-administrative judges, whom they condemn at costs. I think it's a disgraceful attitude. Just as you don't give it, I think the president of Galicia won't give it for anything, and, of course, they have to wait for these workers, those who claim, at least two years to collect the wages they're loving the judges, as I said. So don't confuse what's a job from Monday to Friday that goes down at the end of the week, they go back up from Monday to Friday, down at the end of the week, and so on, with a contract of a certain day. It's very different...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u215	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez. Thank you very much. Your time is up. [[Applause]] For the Government's reply, Mr. García Comesaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u216	I'm not going to insist on justification because I think it was perfectly clear in the previous answer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, you say that in your question since the Galego Health Service, we haven't given any justification to discharge workers on weekends and holidays, beyond the months, in those days when there's no activity in health centers. In the various judicial proceedings it has been accredited -- and this does not seem to mean -- that short-term appointments have a particular cause, time and motive, and have been formalized strictly in accordance with the provisions of the Framework Statute and the Sergas Temporary Staff Selection Pact and the applicable legislation. If Sergas had challenged the Treasury of Social Security resolutions of the years 2015 and 2016, this question would probably not have occurred, since, as I said earlier, all the resolutions that have been taken since 2017 ended up giving Sergas the reason. With regard to requests made by workers who claim periods corresponding to different Treasury resolutions, in which some of them are already firm, others have already been cancelled and others are pending judicial resolution, the area management has considered that the deadline for resolving these resolutions should be suspended until the corresponding judgment of those pending resolutions is reached. Some workers resorted to the suspension resolutions of the agency before the trial, which, instead of giving a ruling on the suspension, entered the bottom of the matter, thereby recognizing the right to acquittal of wages, corresponding those wages to the days contained in the firm resolutions, which obviously has already been recognized by Sergas. So, the Ourense Administration will now proceed to pay the corresponding wages to the persons who have a favorable judgment, despite having made suspension resolutions. It will therefore proceed to the recognition and abortion of the workers of the days included in those firm resolutions. So, and as I said, the judges have recognized Sergas' correct performance in this matter, in those cases where the Treasury records were not used on his day, and in these cases we will proceed to pay what is appropriate to each worker. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u217	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Marta Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on progress towards the development of poscovid units in public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u218	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. Well, we've been suffering for more than eighteen months since the beginning of the pandemic caused by the coward, and in the successive waves we've suffered there have been very complicated situations. The peaks produced by the third wave had very high data, both regarding the number of infected and the high hospital pressure suffered at that time. Today, data is very positive, with a total of active cases of 1,096 and with a spectacular drop in the UCI entry or any hospital unit, data that we haven't seen since the summer of 2020, just on the dates after the confinement; success that we owe to the excellent vaccination campaign that has been carried out. And I also take this opportunity to congratulate you and your entire team in front of the Health Council, because Galicia has always been among the first three autonomous communities as regards administered doses. Last Thursday -- President Feijóo said -- we led vaccination in Spain, with 91.5% of the population immunized with two doses, and 93.5% with one. But we must never forget at any time that we remain immersed in a global pandemic, and, although the situation is much more controlled, there are many people who have passed the SARS-CoV-2 infection. There is no doubt that the experience and knowledge acquired over the past few months about this disease have improved the treatment that has been given to patients who require hospitalization, but the fact is that some of them, like many of those who have passed the virus in their homes, are currently suffering from the side effects caused by covid-19, which we know today as persistent cowardice; effects ranging from pulmonary affect to cardiovascular disorders, such as arrhythmias, myocarditis, or heart failure, or neurological impairments, among which are headaches, loss of taste and forgetfulness, etc., etc. You, Counsellor, have announced in this Chamber the creation of poscovid units to treat all those patients who have overcome the disease but still have sequelae as a result of the infection. That's why we asked him the following question: what are the progress made on the development of poscovid units in Welsh public health? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. As you know and say, copper-19 infection in many cases does not end when patients refuse or abandon hospitalization. All these months of pandemic have taught us that many are the persistent symptoms and sequelae that patients accompany months later. Covid-19 is a new disease, part of its still unknown clinical course, and in particular the consequences it has in the medium and long term. Pulmonary, cardiovascular, neurological, cognitive and psychiatric disorders or haematological disorders are frequent and are treated by some of the most serious sequelae that suffer from those people who have suffered from covid-19 infection. Already in February, in fact, in an attendance, I committed myself in this plenary to putting in place the poscovid units, which would allow an integral and multidisciplinary approach of the people who had suffered from the disease, to whom they would be given continuous and coordinated attention between primary care specialists and hospital care specialists. Thus, in April 2021, after a previous job with professionals of different specialties, the functional plan for the establishment of post-disciplinary units in the seven health areas was approved. The plan was developed with great consensus between professionals and health areas -- I repeat -- and it had a great educational and informative dissemination, so that its implementation would be as effective as possible. At first, we conducted training for primary care professionals, since it would be the family doctors who would make a first assessment about the need for follow-up on these units to their patients. That webinar had more than 2,300 views. In addition, once the units were implanted in all areas, a survey was designed that allowed the detection of sequelae in those patients who suffered from the harbor. It was designed by professionals of the specialties of internal medicine, pneumology and primary care, and allowed the patient's situation to be evaluated in the face of a derivation to the unit and to determine if the patients suffered persistent cowardice. The survey was sent to all patients after twelve weeks since their diagnosis, since from that time it is when you can consider that certain sequelae may appear or be detected. This survey is anonymous and voluntary. The survey was sent to a total of 94,322 people who suffered from covid-19 and at the beginning of the implantation was submitted to the rate of 2,000 per day. Now it's done automatically starting -- as I said -- from twelve weeks since the diagnosis. This work was key to the work the units developed. In the surveys completed by the patients, we can observe that 83.9% were not being evaluated in a consultation, 10.2% were in primary care and 8.8% in hospital care, and 5.9% were admitted to the hospital and had sequelae. We need to follow up all the data, because the covid will accompany us, and that is why it is essential to be able to monitor what the consequences of the patients with the disease are and also to follow up on their treatment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u222	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u223	Well, thank you very much, Counselor, for the information you just gave us in your answer. The truth is that the creation of these multidisciplinary units, those poscovid units, because it is being highly valued by the people who have overcome the infection continue to suffer from symptomatology, and feel much safer with this follow-up, and I mean both the people who have been admitted to hospitals and are now discharged as those who have suffered the disease in their homes. In addition, something very important is that they are provided with continuous attention, which they value very much, because they really have a continuity between care at the health center, in the care of primary care specialists, and hospital care specialists. Regarding the survey you just commented on, because it really seems very correct to send it to patients who had already suffered from the disease; almost 95,000 you said it had been sent. It allows you to detect people who can really suffer persistent cowardice and they don't know, and they're untreated. Experts say that many of the consequences of the disease are still unknown and also part of the clinical course of this disease is still unknown. These surveys allow you to know these sequelae and they also prevent situations of gravity, because sometimes they evolve the symptoms you don't care about, and you get in touch with a medical professional and it's controlled by that symptomatology. So it seems very important to us. And to finish this second shift, we'd like to know if you've already had some of the results of these surveys done. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u224	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u225	Thank you very much. Indeed, the surveys have allowed us to see that, among other aspects, 28.3% of the patients feel sad or disencouraged at times since they had the infection and 3.7% feel sad every day; here we see the important sequel to mental health. 19.7% has difficulty breathing up and down, 1.8% walking on the ground and 1.2% resting. 17.2% showed a loss of taste after passing the vault. 14.2% manifested occasional muscle pain in the joints, back or cervicals that had never before. 14.4% manifests injury to the skin or hair loss. A 13.3% manifests that he has incapacitating symptoms to make minimal efforts that he could do before. And 7.3% claims to have memory problems or to concentrate that he didn't have before. As you can see, the psychological, respiratory, fatigue, muscle and headache disorders, smell disorders and hair loss are the ones mentioned more often. The results of the survey showed the need to follow up on all these people who continue to suffer from the consequences of the disease, ensuring specialized attention from a multidisciplinary team. Thus, the units began to treat patients derived from them and also patients who were hospitalized. To do this, we count on a structure made up of a coordinator, and each unit counts at least on the specialties of internal medicine and pneumology, as well as a case manager nurse. In addition, as we have already moved forward, the poscovid clinical committee, one for each health area, which needed to be created for the care and follow-up of the most complex or difficult-to-use cases. They are composed of the basic members of the unit and those professionals of the various levels of care, whether primary or hospital care, which are necessary according to each particular case, both optional staff and nursing staff. Currently, 27 optionals make up the units, being the most numerous specialty of pneumology, with 9 doctors, and that of intern, with 12. Besides, they work in them 21 nurses. In these months, 4,690 medical consultations and 244 nursing consultations were conducted, a total of about 5,000 consultations, which allow more specialized care to patients and in which all the necessary tests are carried out to verify their evolution. They tell us that patients are very positively rated, as you said, this attention, which allows a more detailed follow-up. These multidisciplinary units also mark the way to others such as those of breast; for their operation, as well as other pathologies, we have recently published the order that regulates them, thus taking into account the mandate of this parliament as well. We believe that this way of treating patients is much more effective and avoids many intermediate procedures and consultations, thus providing higher quality care, which, as always, is the goal of the Health Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u226	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Maria Elena Suárez Sarmiento and six other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the assistance and infrastructure activities carried out at the Salnés Hospital Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u227	To put the question, Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u228	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor, and thank you for being here to answer our questions. The People's Parliamentary Group today brings this question to the full for the interest of the Government of Greece's forecasts in terms of the performances and the new improvement of infrastructure and services at the Salne County Hospital. Dismantling, closing, cutting, fighting, turning the hospital into an outpatient room, degradation, loss of services, loss of expertise, privatization... these are words attached to the Salnés Hospital that I'm sure are familiar to the bench of the groups on the left of this parliament, because they've been part of the hundreds of banners that have been writing and enduring for years the representatives of the opposition groups, some even now in this chamber, and others who were also here for a while and who today are neither they nor their acronyms. Galicia will know. What is clear, and it's also evident, is that today the Salnés Comarcal Hospital is not private, it's not an outpatient clinic, it's not dismantled, it's no less specialized and if it's strongly resisted the pressure of the pandemic, like the rest of the Welsh health. [[Applause]] It is fair to acknowledge that this fortress is mainly due to the commitment of the health-care center staff, which I use to thank from here its tireless involvement. But it is also fair to acknowledge the responsibility of the good health management of the board during these years of the PP Government in Galicia, because, while these opposition groups were dedicated to painting banners and convening demonstrations, the German Government was -- what it should be! -- dedicated to managing enlargements, buying materials, improving facilities and providing the Salnés Hospital with the human resources needed to best respond to the population of my region. These managements have given their fruits with the investment of more than ten million euros in recent years for the expansion, among other specialties, of cardiology and pediatrics or oncological treatment, as well as the improvement of emergencies with the creation of a surgical block, or new spaces within the block of obstetrics, in addition to material and personnel. Counsellor, since the conviction that Sergas has been, is and will be committed to the quality of health care in Vilagarcia and its region, the Popular Parliamentary Group would like to know how the Galician Council appreciates the performances carried out so far at the Salnés County Hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs. Suárez. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u230	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Suárez, of course we speak again in this chamber of comarcal hospitals. These hospitals -- as you well said -- would, according to the opposition, be closed in 2011, when integrated management structures were approved, and there they are. They were going to close again in 2018, when we merged the health areas to facilitate professional mobility, and there they follow. And indeed, the Salnés Hospital has not only closed but has grown; it has grown on the surface with more than 4,000 square meters new and with the reform of another 1,500 already existing; and it has grown in service portfolios, incorporating in the year 2012 Cardiology or Neurology -- as you well pointed out -- or adding medical Oncology in 2016, and extending the provision of the hospital service home to the whole district, when it used to only lend itself to the Town Hall of Vilagaría. So we have a reinforced hospital and we have it because Junta has wagered and invested resources in it. In 2017, the expansion works were completed, which involved an investment of more than 8.5 million euros and included having a new area of emergency -- which you pointed out --, which increased from 18 places to 39 and separated the care areas of general pediatric and obstetric emergencies. A surgical block with 5 surgeons and 9 beds of awakening for post-surgical recovery, and an obstetric area that multiplied by five the surface of the hospital for delivery care, and which besides thanks to the good doing of its staff -- as everybody knows -- has turned the Salnés Hospital into a reference throughout Galicia for natural delivery. It also incorporates a day hospital with 10 boxes and also an extension of the conventional hospital area. This increase in infrastructure was completed with accurate equipment: cardiotocographers, the incubator for the obstetric area, bipap respirators for emergencies, surgical arch and endoscopy tower also for the surgical block, so as to allocate about 1 million euros more for this new equipment. By the way, in the last auction of ultrasound equipment for emergency services this month, an ultrasound will also be added to an estimated 42,000 euros for the Salnés Emergency Service. But we're not staying there. We are committed to the appearance of budgets to continue with the improvement of this hospital, and in the coming days it will be published on the Galician contract portal the bid for 770,000 euros of the work of the new sterilization unit of the Salnés Hospital, which will double the surface of the current one to adapt it to the capacity of the surgical block referred to above with those 5 surgeries resulting from the enlargement. This unit will be on the 1st floor of the hospital and will have a direct connection by elevator to the surgical area, facilitating fluidity of the circulation of the material. In short, I was at the Marine Hospital yesterday checking out the finalization of the thermal envelope works. In the next few days we will receive the work of the Monforte Hospital, in this case the day hospital. And we'll continue with projects in every county hospital, because we believe in them, as shown by the case of the Salnés Hospital. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u231	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Suárez Sarmiento has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u232	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Thank you for your answer, but especially thanks for the commitment of the council that you run with the Salnés Hospital and with the general Greek public health, and with Vilagarcia in particular. Focusing on Vilagarcia, at the end of July, I had the honour of being witness to the signing of a protocol vital to my city that has as object the construction by the Health Council of a new health center as demanded as necessary. This new installation, which will replace the current San Roque outpatient clinic, provides for an area of more than 5,000 square meters, which means an increase of more than 50 % over the current area of the center. In this way, this new building will increase consultations on general medicine, nursing, pediatrics and pediatrics, as well as on dentistry or physiotherapy, among others; and will also allow vital facilities such as, for example, resuscitation and emergency area observation rooms. Tell me about the insistence of the Galician Council, its predecessors and yourself, in making this new health centre a reality, pending until now that the Vilagarcia Council had made available to the council a technically suitable land for its location, which has not happened for years. The People's Party thanks, shares this interest and welcomes the fact that the population of Vilagarcia, as well as its area of influence, can have the necessary facilities and what we deserve. That's what I'd like to know about your department's management of this important project promoted by the Galician Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez. For the Government's reply, Mr. Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Suárez. Of course, investment in primary care... said that, of course, investment in primary care is also fundamental to this government and also to the district of Salnés. [[Murmurs.]] Two years ago, we reformed the Arousa Island health center and this year completed the reform of the centre that we co-financed with the Cambados Town Hall, the health center, which is of municipal ownership. And, of course, the improvement of the primary infrastructure in Vilagarcia has always been the will of the Galician Union. Long before my arrival at the council, that's how it was. A plot was requested from the municipality to do so, but only a plot had to be answered which from our point of view did not meet the conditions. It was not free from cargo, because it had a port impact and because it had a building that had to demolish. So you moved to the Town Hall in a writing from 2017, which you know. Four years later, in which we had no other option, and before we started the process to try to reform the current center, we made a last attempt to ask the municipality for another plot that does meet those conditions. The municipality gave no new plot options, insisted on it, but agreed to change those conditions that made it unacceptable, assuming the port canon and the demolition of the building. And in those conditions we went forward, as we would have gone forward if those same conditions had been fulfilled four years ago, but the reality is that until this year it hadn't changed that position. Therefore, we have signed the protocol to which you mentioned, in which, of course, the need for a mobility study by the municipality to order circulation in the surroundings and ensure the need for the citizenship of health transport is raised. And we already have in processing the agreement that will allow us to bid the architectural project to make this new health center more than 5,000 square meters that Vilagaría deserves. That's always the attitude of Joina towards a municipality where there's a need for assistance in improving infrastructure. At the moment when a viable plot is offered, we act. That's how we did it in Vilagarcia, and so we moved it to other municipalities in Salneas like O Grove or Meis, where we also want to act as soon as possible and when the necessary land is made available to the board. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u235	Thank you, Counselor. We moved on to the next question and last. Question by Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the recruitment by 061 ambulances that do not meet technical requirements
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u236	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u237	Good morning, Counselor. I wish I didn't have to ask you this question, but again it happened the death of a person without health care. On September 16, a neighbor of Vigo, José Manuel, died when he was transferred to Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro in an ambulance that was not adapted to be able to provide road health care and only with a driver in it. José Manuel became unconscious and because he did not count the ambulance on the minimum conditions, nor with the precise material, nor with the precise staff, he was not assisted, he was not given any vital support maneuver and he was not given a chance to survive. And all this in the face of the helplessness, anguish and despair of his wife, who accompanied him in the ambulance. José Manuel's family -- which I'm sending all the affection and support from here -- asks for measures to be taken so that it doesn't happen again and nobody has to go through what they've been through and they're going through. Measured because this misfortune shows that the health policy of the People's Party puts the health and life of the Greeks and the Greeks at risk. And unfortunately, Mr. Counsellor, this fatal outcome is not an isolated case, it rains on the wet, we are not faced with a pointless matter, a carelessness, but a constant practice and that it has no justification that it is maintaining it. We've been asking for time to strengthen the ambulance service in Vigo's health area, because it's permanently collapsed. 6 basic life support ambulances per day, 3 per night and 2 advanced life support are totally insufficient for a health area as wide as Vigo's health area and with so much population. It takes this reinforcement so that 061 has vehicles of its own, vehicles adapted to be able to provide on-the-road health care and with a 2 professional staffing with the title of technicians -- as set out in the regulations, Counsellor, as established by law, we are not demanding anything outside of legality --. And the requests we've made have always been met with the refusal by his counsellor, Sergas, of the 061, who instead of strengthening with his own means and providing quality services is providing the service in precarious ways. One out of three ambulance services, urgent service, in the Vigo health area, is done with this type of precarious ambulance, handing over companies with which no tender was made, which do not meet the exact conditions, which are not prepared for on-the-road health care. You can only qualify for negligence and neglect your attention towards the neighborhood of Vigo's health area. So, what we ask you, counselor, is: how does it justify these contracts? And who would take responsibility for the death of a person who was totally avoidable in this case, José Manuel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u238	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. The Health Counsellor, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u239	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Prado, first of all, I'd like to move to the family of this deceased person my condolences and those of the entire board. Secondly, I would like to thank the work of all the people who provide their services in the public health emergency foundation Galicia, 061, for we have tested their commitment and their broad capacity in many of the situations they have developed and demonstrated their effectiveness in their daily activity since 061. 041 aims primarily to perform pre-hospital care, either through telephone care or through resource displacement at any point in our community in the event of a health emergency, 24 hours a day during all the days of the year. To that end, there is an important provision for both human and material resources. I'm not going to stop at Vigo because I see that you know them well. And also to indicate that, if necessary, from the coordination centre of the 061, you can mobilize other existential resources based on other nearby municipalities, as well as medical personnel and primary care nurses. As you know, the resource network of the 061 is common to all of Galicia and are mobilized according to needs. Resources therefore count with a territorial scope at a given time but which extends to the entire autonomous community when necessary. When these resources are not available for performing a service, other means are used. This has been done since the foundation was created, and not only is it done in Galicia but it is common in all emergency medical services. The resources we count are sized according to criteria of activity and needs. There may be very specific situations in which they are not available and therefore this alternative of what we talk about is necessary but always adapted to the needs of the patient. With regard to compliance with the legislation, Mrs Prado, all ambulances belonging to the urgent health transport network of the Public Service Galego de Emergências Sanitarias strictly comply with the applicable regulations. We must be careful about this, because it is not true that a remedy does not comply with the rules; they are all strictly in line with the applicable legislation as regards staffing and the necessary training of the staff, according to the one established in the decree governing health transport in our autonomous community, and in the same way concerning technical characteristics and health equipment. In addition, with regard to private companies, the Galician Health Emergency Foundation 061, as responsible for managing and coordinating the extra-hospital emergency transport in Galicia, requires all those private companies that are not part of the network and whose ambulances are likely to mobilize if strict compliance with the legislation is necessary. Even so, all ambulances serving in 061 are equipped with a semi-automatic external defibrillator and their staff have training and the qualification required by autonomic legislation. So it's false that we don't comply with regulations of any kind, because everyone's interest is to guarantee the best service, especially when we talk about emergency action.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u240	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u241	Look at one thing, Counselor, don't confuse yourself. BNG is not asking for responsibility for the staff of 061, something you've sold for not having the ambulances available in condition. We're asking you for responsibilities, and what we're asking you to do is stop this practice of hiring ambulances that haven't gone through any contests at all and that don't comply with the legislation for urgent transport as this was. [[Applause]] Don't do it and you're missing the truth in this parliament saying you're doing it, because we're talking about urgent transportation, Counsellor, urgent! [[Applause]] Which does not fit in that temptation of diverting responsibility to professionals, who when they request urgent transportation -- in this case primary staff or 061 -- expect to have it at their disposal so they can offer it, and you don't have it at their disposal. We're not in front of an immediate case, we're in front of something that constantly repeats and that you're not setting a solution. And, of course, BNG will not accept as normal what is neither normal nor acceptable; we do not accept that it has to die of a person for lack of resources. Because you're talking about a defibrillator, and who uses the defibrillator if no one goes with the patient in the cabin, who uses it? [[Applause]] We do not accept as irremediable the death of José Manuel, when with proper resources he had to have an opportunity, which you did not give him, and we do not accept the death of a person because the Board does not have the provision of ambulances that meet the conditions, as is the case. One in three services in the emergency Vigo health area are being done with these ambulances that don't meet the technical conditions. And look, an accident is irremediable, but when a person dies for lack of attention it has to be remedial and has to be avoidable. And look, an ambulance to deal with emergencies can't be an authorized van to skip speed limits or red traffic lights, you have to have enough supplies, space and personnel, space and personnel. [[Applause]] So, uh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u242	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. Thank you very much. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u243	...rectify, Counselor, correct and take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u244	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado, your time is up. The Secretary of Health, Mr. García Comesaña, has the floor for the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u245	Of course it's a shame to hear a parliamentarian say that Sergas... yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm saying it's a shame to hear a parliamentarian say Sergas puts patients in a van enabled to jump into traffic lights. It was almost the last thing I could hear. [[Applause]] I reiterate that the use of additional resources to the emergency transportation network is always assessed by medical personnel of the coordination plant. Its mobilization is carried out exclusively in the following assumptions: by the occupation of resources belonging to the network itself, by the number of injured people when there is an accident like that of the train in the Porriño, for example -- we can resort to vans even in that case, it's true --, and in emergency situations when the response time of the 061 ambulance is considered excessive. In the case of what we're talking about today -- and I repeat again and I regret the death of this patient -- this patient was taken care of at his home by his family doctor, who decides to move him to the emergency room. For this, an assessment is made from the focal point on the diagnosis and conditions of the patient for his transfer, according to this case the transfer with his optional, who was there with him. And in this case one of the above-mentioned assumptions was given: the resources belonging to 061 were busy, and that's why the optionals of the plant authorize the transfer in an ambulance -- I repeat -- according to the evaluation of the patient's diagnosis. We don't understand the attack you're having on the professionals who have responded to this urgency, because about what this person's transfer should be like has given priority to the professional approach. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was during the transfer to the hospital when the patient got worse and decided from the coordination center to continue the route, as the arrival was prioritized as soon as possible at the hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mrs. Prado, you have to check your sources of information. That IGC delegate who has so much information on him, and who tells him that one out of every three transfers... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u246	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u247	...are made by these ambulances, lie to her, lie to her and deceive her. Look, in the year 97.84 % of the emergencies in Vigo Town Hall were covered by 061 own resources, despite the fact that as a result of the different wave of the pandemic increased, as you can imagine, the urgent transport needs. I'm not going to go into the media use that you usually do from circumstances like these. You've done it in this parliament in the case of the girl who died in the pool in Cangas a few months ago, but I'm not going in -- I repeat -- like I haven't come in since then, because it's -- as I say -- to question the work of the staff who does their job both in primary care and in 061, than I can only be proud and grateful, and I'll defend every time it's necessary. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-09-29-DSPG049.u248	Thank you, Counselor. Then finished the agenda items, end the session.
