ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u1	We opened the session. The next item is the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament. They justified their in attendance and delegation of vote, Mrs. Monserrat Prado Cores -- that is done by Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo -- and Mr. Rubén Lorenzo Gómez -- that is done by Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga --. The Bureau authorized these delegations to vote. Proposal for a change of agenda to end the inclusion of a new item.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u2	Now I want you to comment on, before you get on the agenda, an amendment -- I'm talking about an amendment on the agenda that I'm going to put to everyone's consideration -- concerning the fixing of the number of members of the House and the subsequent appointment of Members for the defence of the bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, the transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The plenary session of the Galician Parliament, held on 9 May 2017, approved the bill cited for its handling at the Congress of Deputies, and agreed to fix the number of Members or Members for their defence at the Congress -- of Members or Members who must go --. Having received the communication from the Presidency of the Congress of Deputies yesterday regarding the inclusion on the agenda of the plenary meeting on 2 February 2021, it must be said that the House, with the agreement of the absolute majority required by the Rules of Procedure in its Article 163.3, sets out the number of Members or Members to defend it in Congress. The Bureau, at its meeting on January 26, 2021, agreed to propose that the number of self-employed Members or deputies responsible for their defence be three, one for each parliamentary group, one for one holder and one alternate --. In view of all this, the inclusion on the agenda of this plenary in the House of Commons of the appointment of three Members or self-employed in charge of defending this bill in the Congress of Deputies. [[Parliament adopted the resolution]] Parliamentary groups may present the names of those appointed until 6 p.m. in the General Registry, which shall be ratified by a vote to be taken at the end of the motions. I repeat this until 18.30 -- six and a half -- the General Registry may present the names of Members or Members, who will be ratified by a vote that we will have to hold at the end of the votes corresponding to the motions. All of this is in accordance with Article 88, no problem. And then we do start now with the order of the day. The first point is a legislative text. Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 3rd, Economic, Business and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u3	Amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia are maintained. For the presentation of the dictatorship, the President of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mrs Presas Bergantiños, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u4	Good day again. I am presenting the Ditome on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The bill was entered into the register of the German Parliament on 23 November 2020. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 23 November 2020, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 3rd Commission, Economics, Farms and Budgets. Parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist and Socialist bloc presented amendments to the whole, which were qualified on 14 December 2020 and rejected at the plenary session of 21 December 2020. Parliamentary Group made 32 amendments; Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 12 amendments; and Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 44 amendments. These amendments were qualified on 28 December 2020. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at the meeting of December 30, 2020, appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Ms Paula Prado del Río, as holder, and Mr José Alberto Pazos Couñago, as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández, holder, and Ms Noa Presas Bergantiños, alternate; and by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Juan Carlos Francisco Rivera, holder, and Ms Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo, alternate. At the meetings of January 7 and 8, 2021, the Parliament studied the articulated text of the project together with the amendments submitted, and completed the report containing the recommendations it made to the Commission, consisting of the adoption by most of the amendments made by the Popular Parliamentary Group. It also suggested acceptance of Amendments Nos 18, 19 and 41 from the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and a compromise drawn up in part by Amendment No 35 from the Socialists' Parliamentary Group. Amendments Nos 6, 16 and 21 to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia have been removed. The Commission, meeting on 15 January 2021, adopted by a majority the report of the European Parliament. And it has also been approved a transactional amendment drawn up by Amendment No 5 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The text of the speech which is put to the debate and to the vote at this plenary meeting contains a explanatory statement followed by 32 articles, 4 additional provisions, 1 transitional provision, 1 derogation provision and 4 last provisions. The joint is divided into two main headings: Title I, relating to tax measures, and Title II, relating to administrative measures. Title I -- divided into two chapters in turn -- sets out changes in the regulations governing own taxes and state taxes. Title II regulates various aspects of matters such as public employment, urban management, natural heritage, rural environment, infrastructure, fisheries, social policy, equality, sport, subsidies, consumer and user protection and administrative organisation. The regulatory text shall be closed with various provisions contained in the additional, transitional, derogatory and final provisions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. We therefore begin the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr. Francisco Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone and all the Members who are still in the Chamber. Counselor, good afternoon to you too. Our position in relation to the Tax and Administrative Measures Act, finally, is the position we have held over the past month and a half in the whole debate in this House and even in the debate on the amendments in the Commission. So our sense of vote on this dictame is going to be negative, for questions of form and substantive questions in which, at last, I am not going to sink too much because they are known to all. There is a legislative change that is usually made by the Government of the Union, which affects the multitude of laws, and we understand that it is absolutely unnecessary. The Council of Galicia enjoys this House of an absolute majority, and we understand that in order to change standards -- some in a substantial way -- a debate and a legislative process is needed in this Parliament. The Accompanying Law technique cannot be used as an absolutely normalised technique over the last few years to modify all kinds of laws. And in that sense we see this absolutely unnecessary procedure by the Galician Council given the absolute majority that currently counts in the House. Indeed, we are in a very exceptional situation, so exceptional that the budgets that were being proposed and which have just been approved today may need to be re-modified as a result of the pandemic situation, the economic situation that ex-new arises from the situation that we are living dramatically in this country, and which is particularly affecting the economic sectors of all known. That is why, because of this exceptionality, we would also understand that the Law of Measures envisaged exceptional measures to exceptionally amend laws. But what you do through the Measurements Act, what the Board does, what the Government does, is -- I insist -- year after year use this legislative technique to modify a multitude of laws that have nothing to do with budgeting, that nothing has to do with budget execution, that nothing has to do with matters related to the budgeting of the Galician Union. This legislative technique, of course, we don't like it. I believe that the honourable Member and spokesperson of the People's Party has also expressed during various debates in this House, in plenary and committee, that you do not like this kind of legislative technique either. Nevertheless, and despite all this, despite the fact that we don't like the People's Party or opposition groups, the Galician Union continues year after year using again this format of legislative change -- which I insist on being legal and constitutional but we understand that it is not democratic --. The explanatory statement itself says that the Law of Measures includes a series of rules that, with a vocation of permanence over time, aspire or contribute to economic development through budgetary execution -- in this case in Galicia --. Well, I think it's time that this collection, which is constantly incorporated into the explanatory statement of this law over the past few years, disappears. Because it's not true that the changes that are made have a permanent vocation in time. The same laws are changed year after year -- the same articles --. So we invite the Galician Union to change this type of writing in the next year's explanatory statement. It's a law of measures that in our judgment alters the multitude of rules that nothing has to do with -- as I said -- with execution or budget, with budgetary execution, with tax matters or with economic issues. It is a law that, to our judgment, is contrary to the principle of transparency, to the principle of legal certainty, to the stability that must logically have the regulatory process. It is a law that should be born precisely to complement the Budgets Act in relation to tax matters and administrative matters in an exceptional way. But I insist that the Galician Union regularly uses it, year after year, with a severe -- to our trial -- subtraction of the principle of legal security; and also by obliging a political debate that has to be held here in connection with all kinds of normative change, and also by obviating a social debate and a public debate -- because society also has the right to participate in the legislative process through the popular initiative --. It's a law -- I insist -- which is used with abuse to modify a multitude of laws -- twenty-five --. It's true that last year was more, it was thirty, and it's actually true that it's a constitutional legislative technique -- that we don't question all these kinds of issues, and we've already expressed it throughout the ensuing debates --. Anyway, it's constitutional, but it's not unanimously constitutional. There are particular votes in this regard. Even doctrine understands -- numerous authors -- that these kinds of laws are a real fraud to the doctrine of the Constitutional Court in relation to the matter of limits of the content of the Budget Act itself. So this is a model that systematically uses the People's Party over the past few years. And you've changed over the last few years -- since 2017 if I'm not mistaken -- 84 laws. It is indeed a model of the People's Party and that nothing has to do with the model that was in this country when there was an alternative government to that of the People's Party, between 2005 and 2009, when budgets were actually adopted without the need for accompanying laws. And during that period it was also possible to debate and adopt 56 laws in this Parliament without needing to turn to these mechanisms and to these legislative procedures of difficult fit from a democratic point of view. This type of procedure is, in addition, excessively rapid and excessively accurate legislative modification procedures. They prevent the opposition, in this case they prevent the Socialist Party -- the PSdEG -- from knowing also the reports that would be mandatory in the elaboration of any kind of law -- in this case, the ESC report, which is not even accompanied by the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures --. And out of the 25 laws that are being amended, 14 have already been modified last year -- 84 since 2017 --. Anyway, it's all right. And this obviously contrasts with the scarce legislative baggage of the Galician government board in bringing laws to this Parliament over the past four years. By 2020, it was 16, logically discounting the laws of budgets and the laws of measures. Well, you change all kinds of standards -- I insist -- like water laws, ports laws, social services, fires, subsidies -- and finally, there are up to twenty-five subjects that are modified again through this legislative technique. Our amendments, at last, are raised precisely to their tax model, especially in relation to the tax proposal which the Council of Galicia has. We don't agree with your tax policy, we don't agree with your tax policy. It seems to us to be an absolutely regressive model, so taxation is loaded on the incomes of work. There's a clear shift in tax benefits -- from what so much abuse and use the Government of the Galician Union -- towards succession tax and property tax. There's a shift in the tax burden just towards the wages of work. And so we don't like that tax model, and that's why we're introducing amendments that basically have to do with the IRPF, or with the property tax to apply the type of recording according to the liquidable bases. And, in the case of property tax, also to reduce the minimum exempt from current 700,000 euros to 400,000. In addition, we are trying to recover by that way a little, or a little, tax collection, which we understand is absolutely necessary also to finance public services. Because, of course, the policy of the People's Party -- it has now been said in the budget debate -- is a fiscal policy based primarily on tax subsidies in the budget itself. I think this year the impact of fiscal bonus -- if I'm not mistaken, Counselor -- is 472 million euros, 20 million more than last year. And the question we have to ask ourselves is whether these tax subsidies ultimately have an impact on economic activity, whether they have an impact on those sectors to which they are directed -- especially in the area of property transmission tax -- whether those deductions that occur, precisely, by the acquisition of housing or by the transmission of immovables in less occupied areas actually have an impact on the fixing of population or employment itself in those areas to which those types of deductions are addressed. We understand that no, we understand that this kind of tax deduction does not meet the purpose for which the Council of Galicia sets them. We understand that, in view of this serious situation from the point of view of the collection, when the collection is falling, when the expenditure is increasing, it would be important for the Galician Union to rethink its fiscal policy and its policy to tax towards the establishment of a more progressive fiscal policy, in which most of them pay and, of course, the tax benefits do not particularly affect those who have the most. Because there's a shift -- and it's also exponential -- where the highest incomes are the ones that benefit most from tax benefits. Yes, because in succession tax, if we analyze the last nine years, the tax benefits are 1,100 million euros; and in income tax, in the IRPF, it is 211 million euros in the last nine years. [[Murmurs.]] If we check the tax subsidy on capital transmission tax, in the last nine years it is EUR 1,100 million; and if we check the tax subsidy on equity tax for the last nine years, it is EUR 668 million. And if we check the actual collection of wealth tax in 2019, the closed collection, it's 71 million against 108 million tax benefits. So those who are benefiting from tax benefits are actually those who have the most. [[Applause]] Our amendments are oriented, within the scope of the IRPF, to establish an imposition, a type of recording, depending on the liquidable base -- more progressive, of course --. The scope of tax deductions must be oriented according to taxable bases. The deductions that relate to housing must always be oriented as long as housing is the usual residence. We do not share the tax bonuses, which in this case are set out in Article 1 in relation to casinos, bingos and so on. We have nothing against this sector, but we see that this kind of bonus is used unilaterally for a particular sector and not for the whole economic sector that is currently suffering. Why don't IRPF tax-type bonuses for other types of sectors -- hosting, small self-employed --? Why casinos? So we're here with a suppression amendment. I'm going to finish. Finally, we are considering amendments to public employment. We don't agree, and there's a valid law today -- the 2012 Act of Measures, temporary measures --. We believe that there must be a social dialogue in this regard and we must try to legislate in the field of public employment. We have observed through the law the inability of the Government to respond in this matter, in terms of competition for transfers and in the processes of operation, in the process of labour stabilization. And even we claim from the Galician Council in this sense -- through our amendments -- an amendment to the law, which, as I said, is a law of temporary measures. So we have finally amended, in the new definition of a forest agent, etc., a set of amendments in which, of the 44 actually proposed, we have taken into account 3. We have succeeded in trading 2; one of them, through the Socialist Group, which we understand is important, such as the deduction of property transmission tax to victims of gender-based violence in the acquisition of real estate. It's a discount on the tax rate of documented transmission tax and legal acts. It was a transaction that was possible with the People's Party and also with the BNG. So, in that sense, we are pleased that at least in some way if I had taken into account the position of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u7	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u8	In a second shift, we will be positioned in relation to the amendments of the People's Party and also of the BNG. And for the moment, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u9	Thank you, Mr. Francisco Rivera. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u10	Thank you, President. Good afternoon or good day -- it depends on whether or not they ate -- all of them. I'll try -- because today's session is extensive and intense -- to be as clear as possible in the exposure of BNG's political position on this law of administrative and fiscal measures, the law of accompaniment, and also trying to be as agile as possible without leaving anything behind. We're going to vote against -- this I don't think it takes anyone by surprise -- both the dictates and the bill set. The position of the Galician Nationalist Block in this respect, which motivates that vote against, is known. And it's basically because of the use and abuse -- as we just said -- that the People's Party, since the Galician Union, makes these omnibus laws, these laws that are a basket of tailors. They are laws that, as a whole, and as a single pen, change more than twenty laws -- in this case, 23 legislative texts and 2 decrees --. They do it at once and in a single debate. And in case they were few -- I say 23 because they were originally 22 in the project that presented the Galician Union -- because the People's Party through its parliamentary group had to give us a good deal of money with a law that was not originally planned for the project and which also provides for the amendment of the Hunting Law. We don't agree from the BNG -- as you know -- either with the background, actually, or with the form of this procedure that is becoming a habitual practice, both for the Galician Union and for the People's Party. And it does not reduce itself solely to accompanying laws. They took this practice, comfortable for the Government and also for the People's Party's Parliamentary Group, also with other laws, as in some that are in the process of processing right now in this House, such as the Law on Administrative Simplification, which they change to about ten legal texts with that procedure, through the back door, because other laws and other relevant rules in our country are changed from that proposed law. They had already done so, in addition, with the Business Implementation Act of 2017, also with that law, which they have amended many others that make up the legal system of this country. And it's not from the last legislating and the beginning of it. No, they have already come with a practice of using these parliamentary techniques or practices in other laws that are widely known -- which are the subject of repeated modification to the accompanying laws -- as it was also in 2012 to the Mountain Law, which has modified -- as they will remember -- almost completely the Fire Prevention Act and when nothing had to do with such a comprehensive reform of that law in 2007 -- with the warning, of course, of the Economic and Social Council, which told them that, if they wanted to change the Fire Prevention Act, they had done it, but that they had brought to the House a specific bill. And it is customary, moreover -- as I say -- that in recent years the People's Parliamentary Group, legitimately and in the exercise of its parliamentary participation -- no one wants to steal that right -- until now many times, through the process of amendments, a different law, which cannot be -- as they know -- the object of amendments by other groups. Basically -- and for me to understand -- we could say that, between the People's Party and the People's Party, the Popular Parliamentary Group, if they do a Juan Palomo, I eat it and I eat it, basically. No one -- I insist -- intends to steal the People's Party, the People's Group, the ability to push amendments in processing processes -- nothing further -- but their corrections or last-minute hornets from Galician Union to the text that initially presented and recorded the Government in this House are also a good measuring stick, a very descriptive example, of what this kind of homonymous laws or accompanying laws mean, these procedures across Philippine to modify more than twenty laws of a pen, and the result also of having a head in twenty-three laws and not one in particular. [[Applause]] Then we take surprises of the last minute. And it's not a metaphor, I insist it's literal. They amend for the seventh time the Law on Forest Fires, for the fifth time the Law on Land Mobility -- which will also reform with the Law on Land Recovery, which today is expected to begin to be dealt with in this Parliament -- ; they change for the ninth time the Law on Mountains, that of soil, that of water, that of roads, that of fishing, that of ports and that of social services. And finally, he also joined the hunt. So up to 23 legislative texts and 2 decrees, which, without the risk of mistaking us and almost without the courage to become us neither -- our parliamentary group -- in a kind of Nostradamus, we also dare say that they will be subject to modification next year -- probably the same articles again and again ad infinitum, right? --. And I insist that it is not because of the greed that you legislate in this way nor by doing it uniquely and exclusively through this subterfuge that represents the accompanying laws to budgets, the laws of tax and administrative measures, but it is a common practice that we are seeing in this legislative effervescence that we have in this beginning of legislation. During the processing of the Accompanying Law -- it's also known to everyone here in the Chamber -- the BNG was not accepted any amendments. I'll also say we didn't expect anything else, there's little surprise in that respect. They are amendments that, in any case, they are kept alive until today, until this debate and vote, and that, following the structure of the law, we focus on our group in two ways. On the one hand, as far as the administrative part is concerned, they are essentially aimed at suppressing those most minor changes. The bulk of the changes that include this accompanying law -- I insist -- will not be aimed at providing more tools or greater capacity and agility to the Government itself to intervene in the situation of pandemic and economic and social crisis arising from it today in our country, but at reworking the same legislative texts that are again and again modified through this mechanism of accompanying laws. And that -- we've said so many times -- what demonstrates is also the way to work absolutely erraticly for a government, which seems to have more doubt than a strategic plan for where you want to lead this country. I insist that laws change one year after another, through this pathway of accompanying laws, which are fundamental for designing our country and for thinking about Galicia of the future, as can all be related to the use of the agricultural and forestry sector in Galicia. And in part two -- to which it relates to tax measures -- we are directing our amendments to introduce measures aimed at taking advantage of the limited margin, indeed, which has the self-government of this country, but the margin that allows precisely that political power recognised by Galicia to introduce greater progress when we talk about taxes. And that means he pays more and he gets closer. To say that we want progress when we talk about taxes means exactly that: that who has the most contribution, and to guarantee with that more economic and budgetary resources to deal with the huge health crisis we have today, which is a question! in our country, but also the enormous social and economic consequences that come precisely from that pandemic. And here I open a small bracket, because during the debate in this plenary session we hear the Group of the People's Party saying that the BNG wanted to raise taxes and that little more would come the coconut steal us all at home at night. And I'm also sure they'll agree with me that they've heard how it turned out a bit in the middle of the debate -- especially through social networks -- a fairly common practice in the whole of the Spanish state, which is that entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, footballers, youtubers or people in the farandula of all kinds end up fleeing to tax havens with the only purpose of paying less taxes. We believe that it is a good opportunity for the budgetary debate to remember that, if we are in a country like where we live today, in Galicia, where we can go through the door of a health center or a hospital and not pay to be seen by a doctor or a doctor, whether they test us or whether they enter us or operate, it's precisely because of the taxes we pay. To support and strengthen public services is to guarantee equity and to guarantee democracy. [[Applause]] The opposite -- and we can also look at our surroundings, also nowadays, as the United States can be -- is the law of the jungle, saving whoever can and, above all, saving whoever has money. Lowering taxes to the highest incomes and assets makes us no more equal, quite the opposite. And in these budgets as a whole -- not only in the Law of Measures -- the Galician Union renounces its more progressiveness and -- I insist -- that it brings more than others, even with the limited margins of the current self-government. Greater progress in the IRPF or in wealth and succession taxes is the proposal made by the BNG Parliamentary Group with its amendments, but also through the creation of new taxes that not only serve to have greater budgetary capacity, more income from the Galician Union, but also to allow them to intervene on reality and change it for the better, so that it is more fair and more sustainable. I will speak of a specific example of the amendments that we have tabled, but I would also like to make a broader reflection, because what we are living in -- and it's hard to get away from immediately, from the most dramatic part of this pandemic -- the crisis, has that cathartic point that also allows us to think about the world in which we live and the society in which we want to live. If we learn a lesson collectively learned from everything we have experienced in this country in the last year of pandemic, I think it is that we must strengthen the public, both public intervention in economic reality and, above all, in services as guarantors of social rights. Because if anything has shown us this pandemic is that the public is service and the private is benefit. And we now have on the table in the whole European Union -- not only here in Galicia -- an event around the vaccines -- especially Pfizer -- that has to lead us to think about who we want to leave the collective rights of the whole planet, but, in particular, about us -- for bringing it more to concrete -- the future of the Greeks and the Greeks. Now they're seeing the results of leaving in the hands of large multinational corporations the future and the lives of millions of people, who are putting forward the economic interest and maximizing the benefits, as Pfizer is doing, guaranteeing the doses to the countries that pay the most and withdrawing or withdrawing them, within that free market that you are so wonderful and so democratic, to the countries that pay the less. We have to get the thought that there are issues, such as fundamental rights and the right to life -- and health is one of them -- that have to stand aside from the logic of the market. [[Applause]] And it's also good to remember that since last year the World Health Organization has been asking for vaccines to be a global good and, above all, to guarantee the right of the population as a whole, we live where we live. We propose in this amendment process -- and with this ending -- to create a tax that also goes in relation to a fundamental right, a human right, such as the right to housing. To create a tax that burns empty dwellings with the aim of exerting pressure on the large owners to ensure the social function of the housing as a right. In Galicia today there are 300,000 empty homes while it is precisely the price of rent that is one of the main factors of social exclusion in our country. This means that social entities and organizations are not suspected of wanting to build socialism, such as Caritas, the Social Work College or the Galician Network against Poverty. To exert pressure to mobilize that housing park that is favoring speculation with a fundamental right -- in our case, in Galicia, mainly in cities and, in particular, within cities, in the Atlantic axis -- should today be a priority target for any government, but above all thinking of society that we want to build towards the future. For me, that's all. And for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, the Law on measures amends many laws. It's a law that unleashes administrative procedures. And I, as a matter of precedent, will still ask them for a little more effort, to which Mrs. Rodil has already referred openly in her previous intervention. Because, in fact -- I've already talked to you -- in article 31 of the law there was an error that prevented there from being four points that were kept in force by the modification of three points that are not incorporated into the original text of the law, and there would be an unknown article, a somewhat oddly speaking article, legally speaking, because instead of having the 10 paragraphs, it would have 7 -- and 3 without content -- so it wouldn't make much sense. So, by appealing to your consent, I ask you to introduce in that Article 31 a paragraph which says that the current numbers 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10 are going to be 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11 respectively. This would be the proposal I make for a wording of consensus, since there are no amendments to that article and therefore we cannot make a transaction. I thank your will of consensus and your willingness to reach an agreement in this regard. We are now finishing the tabling work of the Law on tax measures. It's a law, gentlemen, which, as much as they criticize it, is useful. It is a useful law because, as the advisor in his presentation in this House has pointed out, he sets out such important measures as to establish bonuses to various sectors of activity to alleviate the effects of loss of economic activity due to the pandemic of coward-19, strengthens conciliation measures for public employee permits, establishes as a merit for transfers, promotions and careers the provision of present services in residential and socio-sanitary centres during the pandemic and allows for a more agile regulation to define high-risk fire perimeters and on preventive actions. It also sheds light on the right of families with two or more children to benefit from free childhood education -- although some of them are over the age of 18 --. It facilitates the functioning of government bodies and the representation of cooperatives in the face of the situation caused by the pandemic, ensuring, above all, the participation of older people in rural areas, or empowering companies to comply with equality plans to promote the inclusion of women in the world of work, reducing the wage gap and avoiding gender discrimination. Well, after their processing and the briefings in which we discuss the amendments of the parliamentary groups, I have to say that the law has improved in some respects. What has been said here is that it steals the debate, that it is opaque, that it does not allow social participation, because the facts show us that it does not, that there have indeed been amendments that are the result of incorporations of society. I, right now, when Mr Rivera spoke, went into Parliament's page -- which, as you know, has a section that is "Lexisla with us," -- and there are several legislative texts now that are alive, which are being processed in the House. And I went to see what contributions were. I mean, or no one knows that section of the website or, indeed, people know it and make contributions. And I saw as the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Simplification and Support for Economic Reactivation -- which is from 10 to 12 -- has four contributions; the Law on Change of Public Health, which is from 23 to 11, has three; the Law on Measures, which takes two months, from 23 to 11 -- like the Health Act -- has zero contributions; the Law on External Action has two contributions; and the Law on Museums, which is from 9 October, has zero contributions. And so, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this is that there are no contributions to legislation and that society doesn't know the laws, I think it doesn't fit the reality. I'd like to take a walk for some of the issues we approved. As far as equality is concerned, we have expanded the benefits of maternity, adoption and lactation to workers already recognized by officials and civil servants. We improve the public employees' rights for maternity, adoption and reception, and we reinforce them in the alleged multiple births, breastfeeding, the death of a child or the care of persons with disabilities. In the issue of conciliation, we also accept an amendment from the Socialist Party that makes maternity leave more flexible to working mothers after childbirth, who will have to rest compulsory and uninterrupted six weeks but who can share the rest -- that is, 16 of their 22 weeks of rest -- as best suited to them, without the obligation that it had so far to do so uninterruptedly. And in the same area of equality, we also incorporate an amendment from the People's Group that allows employees who are victims of gender-based violence to decide to reduce their work schedule to fully charge all economic wages when the decrease is one third or less of the working day. And in that same line, in the attention of the victims of gender-based violence, we came to a transaction with the Socialist Party with an amendment that proposed to reduce to 5% the tax on property transmissions for habitual housing of the victims. And since the People's Party we've been proposing a transaction so that that 5% will be further reduced -- to 3% -- just like in other collectives subsidised for this same purpose, which are under 36, large families and people with disabilities by more than 65 percent. And we also proposed that they benefit from the 50% tax on the tax on documented legal acts -- for new housing cases, not only in used housing -- and with the deduction of 100 percent if the housing is found in small areas -- and with the economic capacity of the victims we reached an agreement to establish it with respect to the housing price, which was up to 150.00 euros at the cost of housing --. So we came to an agreement with the Socialist Group and I appreciate the contributions this group has made to the law, because, despite the criticism of it, I knew how useful it was. In the field of public service, we also set up a series of measures that affect selective processes in times of pandemic and that provide greater security and flexibility for people who may be in a quarantine situation. So you can also change the selective processes so that you can do the elimination tests first so that there's less volume of people in the collective exams and tests. And the exams can be looked at in different shifts. And for people who are in quarantine, alternative dates are also set. The services provided in the front line of the curvature 19 pandemic by public health personnel will also be valued as merit in subsequent selective processes and recruitment lists. And through the amendment of the People's Party we also incorporate services on a face-to-face basis in workplaces of the residential and socio-sanitary centres of the Social Policy Council for the categories of geroculator and staff of general services. Other measures that we also transpose to the Greek legislation are protection measures for public employees who are victims of terrorist violence. We regulate the second activity for forest firefighter categories in the operationalization process. In the area of rates and exemptions, we also introduced, as an exceptional and directed measure to alleviate the effects of covid-19 in certain sectors, an exemption applicable to water canon and vegetable coefficients, corresponding to the invoicing periods from 5 November 2020 until the declaration of the health emergency situation is lifted -- declared on 13 March 2020 -- for restaurants, banquets, cafés and bars, for leisure and entertainment establishments, such as party rooms, discos, pubs or spectacular cafes, and holes, hotels, tourist establishments and tourist hostels. Well, in the commission Mr. Rivera said that it seemed to him very little, that it was little less than the chocolate of the oyster. Well, if this measure seems little to you, it's always more than the one that put the Government of Spain, Mr Rivera, on the table, and it's always more than the one that the deputies and the governments of the socialist and nationalist councils are contributing. But, as you know, it's not the only effort that the Galician Union is making, because it's meant, in a first shock plan, to be over 80 million euros -- 140 million if we also calculate the aid to self-employed and pem, of which we can also benefit from this sector --. And now there's over the table 50 million euros in your hands that can double them. If you incorporate the municipalities and the deputies governed by you, those 50 million can become 100 million. And I think it would be great news for all these people that you once put people's interests above party interests. And with regard to fees, we also set exemptions and subsidies in port rates for the hospitality sector located in ports. And I know they don't like changes to the Land Law, but, look, Mrs. Rodil, the rural is alive, and while the rural is alive and it doesn't fade, because we'll continue to adapt the legislative tools to reality. And in this case the changes favor the dynamisation of our rural area. They're concerned about our 19th amendment to the Hunting Act. I've already explained to you in the commission that this is a protectionist amendment, Mrs. Rodil. Of course, I understand that you base it on everything we've changed laws and laws, but it doesn't value the usefulness of the change. And I think I should put aside the speech that we have modified here a lot of laws and see if those changes are really useful. In this case, it is to avoid the silent estimation of applications for declaration of commercial cinematic holdings which do not meet the requirements of Law 13/2013 of 23 December 2013 on Galician hunting. These files are very complex and they're slow to resolve. So far silence was positive. Well, we introduced a negative silence to prevent that complex processing of this procedure because we can release species from cinematic farms and other types of establishments. And that would be an additional risk if we did not ensure compliance with the closing requirements in certain cases. So -- I insist -- it's a protectionist amendment. And why don't we accept your amendments? Well, look, we, Mrs. Rodil, do not agree with you to raise taxes. We already know that raising taxes is left-handed and goes to the DNA on the left. You don't come here to say I'm the pig. You're the man of the sack. And I'm the man of the garbage because they're trying to raise the IRPF tax, the wealth tax, the succession tax, the tax on the high-voltage electric transport network, an empty housing tax -- that you sell as it is for the big captors --. In Catalonia they did the same thing and now it's the autonomous community with a higher rate of illegal occupations of housing, Mrs. Rodil. And the tax star, the tax star, is a tax on large commercial surfaces. [[Applause]] You have a lot of nostalgia from the two-party government, where you were running the Industry and Trade Council, and it was the government that gave more licenses to shopping centers throughout the history of the autonomous community. Of course, many of them have already closed. You gave licenses above your chances of -- what did you call them in the commission? - "the cathedrals of consumption." And now you're trying to fix the mistakes you've had in the past. I understand it, but it has to be a little coherent. And, of course, you say then youtubers leave, the instagramers. Well, if they keep taxing, what do you think? Do you think they stayed? Well, I don't know, I don't think so. We don't have a greater interest in protecting ourselves either. We are interested in protecting the Greeks and the Greeks, and that the Greeks and the Greeks have more money in their pockets, that they may have more money for their daily life. And it's done if without taxes if you can do more things -- like you said, more health, more attention and more education -- Mrs. Rodil, that when you ruled in that nostalgic two-party government -- for you -- they left the Lugo Hospital just the building, with nothing inside, and -- that's yes -- four models of the Cunqueriro Alvaro. And the People's Party, with less money, less income and less taxes, is running the Cunqueiro Alvaro, the Lugo HULA and many more health centers than you. [[Applause]] Mr. Rivera, we can't accept your amendments, but we can't accept that you come to tell us to raise taxes. No, we already know it's from the Socialist Party. But I've already explained to you that, to have more spending capacity, you don't have to have more tax revenue, you have to have a better management capacity. And that's what President Feijóo has shown over the years. And it was evaluated in the polls in 2009, in 2012, in 2016 and in 2020. The Greeks and the Greeks know who's interested in their government. They want more money in their pocket and better money management. And I understand that the Socialist Party always has a lot of difficulty to understand that less can be done more. But the evidence and reality is that. And about the Accompanying Law, look, you say it's legal and constitutional. Indeed, but when you speak here about the particular votes of the Constitutional Court, you must know, Mr Rivera, that these particular votes are to the State Budget Accompanying Act. Because this law of measures is an ordinary law, it's a law that could even be passed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u14	...without having the budgets, without the House entering the budget law. In fact, last year the socialist government of Valencia registered the law of measures at the same time as extending the budgets of the previous year. I mean, without registering budgets on the camera, the Socialist Party has registered the media law. And, of course, you come here saying that it's rarely democratic when Mr Sánchez changes 34 laws in the accompanying law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u15	Finish. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u16	...with the reports of the Congress of Deputies against -- reports that here are not contrary, for nothing, and you know it -- it's not enough to be nice, Mr. Rivera. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u17	Thank you. [[One person from the House services comes to disinfect the stage.]] Roll to get defined on the amendments. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Francisco Rivera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u18	Thank you, President. Good day again. With regard to the correction of errors which Mrs. Paula Prado referred to, in fact, in this parliamentary cordiality we will admit, we admit, in a consensual wording. I ask the Galician Council -- in this case the author of the initiative -- is that it gives the groups the opportunity to amend all the legislative changes they make, including those made through these kinds of issues. Because this and a bug correction but it changes an article, an article about which political groups cannot amend with the appropriate procedure. We pick up the appeal to cordiality, but we understand that this has to be exceptional and this can never happen again. You were talking here about a number of issues relating to the amendments that the People's Party is proposing to the Law itself. We don't argue that the People's Party -- of course yes -- can make amends to the Law of Measures. What we don't think is, at last, too ethical is that the People's Party introduces, through amendments, changes to laws that are not in the Law of Measures, as is what it does with an amendment of its -- the amendment number I don't know which -- which amends the Law of Hunting. We even think kafkiano is this way and this technique of legislating. I mean, it's an amendment where the political groups can't position themselves because it doesn't even go into the law of measures itself. There is a law that you introduce and modify through an amendment to this kind of technique. That's why you said the Law of Measurement is a useful law. I believe that in this context it is an absolutely useless law, except with what it has to do with budgetary matters or budgetary execution, because all that introduces this law are improvisations of the Galician Union in such a way as to legislate the impulses and the blow of occurrences. And it has translation, of course, year after year, because the same laws are always modified, or practically the same laws -- and even in some laws they are the same articles every year --. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will, at last, accept the amendments of the BNG. We don't exactly agree -- of course not -- with BNG's approach either in the fiscal field or in any other matter, but we understand that there is a principle that guides them, which is the principle of fiscal progress, that we respect. And, therefore, we're going to support them. Regarding the amendment of the BNG concerning the tax on empty dwellings, at last, we want to make here an incision. We can understand the underlying philosophy, which is to impostly record large housing owners, who have them unemployed -- banks, investment funds --. What happens is that you have to define more precisely the concept of a legal person that you speak of as a passive subject, insofar as a legal person is also a single-person limited society; therefore, that legal person can also live. But we understand what the bottom line is and so we're not going to discuss these kinds of issues. With regard to the amendments of the People's Party -- 32 amendments -- you actually change -- again via the amendment to the Law of Measures -- the Law of Galicia Water to introduce that canon. You, through the amendment, amend again, or amend again, the law on water cannon through that amendment that you propose. And we say that this is an absolutely useless amendment, has no economic impact. In the memory of the Tax Act itself, the economic impact of the measure is EUR 96,000, if I am not mistaken. In Galicia there are 21,000 establishments that are theoretically recipients of that tax benefit. So it has no impact, it has no impact. And you made the following comparison: "Well, it's the state... "Hey, the state...!" Anyway, I'm not here to talk about the state, the state is already talking about who has to talk about. Those who basically talk about the State Government are you. But since we're talking about the state there's 1.2 billion this year to support the Greek economy, the ERTE, the autonomous... 685 million in the board budget, assuming 1.1% of the deficit that corresponds to the Galician Union...! Of course, yes, yes...! "Unbelievable what he says!" I don't know if the Counsellor is in the debate, but, well, if you want, we'll discuss it with him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finally, this is the position of the People's Party, that of the permanent confrontation with the Government of the State while self-renouncing its own powers -- especially in tax and tax matters --. Then we go and confront the Government of the State -- Spain steals us, Madrid steals us, the government Sánchez... --. Finally, this is the fiscal policy of the People's Party. Because if not, in succession tax, for example -- where there are 1,100 million tax bonuses in the last nine years, from 2010 to 2019 -- you would rethink the exempt tax base. Because, who benefits? Who benefits from the exemption of a million euros on the taxable basis of inheritance tax? The ones who have the most!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u20	Or is it that in this country the cause, when a half-family dies here in Galicia with two children, they leave many millions to the children? I don't know, I don't know if that's so or not, if there's a lot of families that have millions of euros; but I think I don't, I don't think. So, these kinds of taxes and these kinds of tax exemptions and tax bonuses are thought -- just like in the wealth tax -- for those who have the most. Thus, tax benefits are exponentially beneficial for high income. That's your fiscal policy, and that's the fiscal policy that we amend through the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u22	By the way, the Roll of the People's Party is absolute. Admit three amendments because it's very good, and even trade some. But that does not mean that there was the slightest dialogue in this debate of the Law on measures. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u23	Thank you, Mr. Francisco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u24	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. First of all, with regard to this proposal for a consensus which was formally announced now to Mrs Prado, we, from the BNG, are going to facilitate that correction, because it is a numerical error, fundamentally, which causes a far greater impact than what could seem simply an error in fixing the numbers, the numbering of the different sections of the article; but also for a fundamental reason what we have been talking about in the BNG throughout the debate since it started this morning, and is that we are responsible, contrary to what is said here many times -- and I suppose that they end up believing their lies -- we are enormously dialogueal, enormously rational people, who even in discrepance we can find meeting points when it is -- that I also want to make it very clear -- to defend the interests of this country, and above all in an exercise of absolute responsibility not to the Government, but to the whole of the Galicians and the Greeks. Because if I don't miss my memory too, that article has to do with workers and public workers. Secondly, Mrs Prado said -- and this has already been the subject of ongoing debate throughout the process of processing the law -- that the successive, constant and permanent changes to the laws that bring with these accompanying laws is to adapt them to reality -- that, if we listen to you, it changes from day to day to day, doesn't it? it changes permanently, it is in constant change --. And it's true that reality and society are dynamic, but laws have a vocation of permanence in time, beyond, often, a few months, as in some recent examples of changes without nearly a year in force. And I put specific cases that are collected in the text that will be voted on today. I said in my first speech that the modification, the modification that you propose -- one of them -- on the Land Mobility Act, or the proposed amendment of the Fire Prevention Act, will last both in force and delay in adopting the Land Recovery Act, which will then be discussed, shortly after we vote or end this debate. And it's not the only one, it's the case of the Forest Fire Law. The amendment to this Accompanying Law this year I insist that it is a classic of the People's Party's Accompanying Laws, which has modified seven times the practice of all its articulation. This year they change Article 12 again -- that goes through the fourth drafting --, Article 16 -- that they reformed five times --, and the 20 bis -- that with this they are already five times the ones that changed it --. The Land Mobility Act 2011 goes to the fifth reform -- to see how long this --. Specifically this year they will modify 47 ter, which they created and you introduced last year also through the Accompanying Law to Budgets corresponding to the year 2020. I insist, and I repeat what I said in the first debate about the amendment to all of this bill, you have a concept of permanence in time that is shorter than the peak of a doll, because they basically last few months in force these legal reforms, reforms that have a direct implication in the daily life of people who are, for example, owners of rustic lands in this country -- that there are more than one million people who are owners of rustic predices -- and who generate a terrible legal insecurity for the entire population of this country and who have no vocation of permanence in time. I insist that, as soon as other laws are being passed that are under way or are going to enter now to be processed in this House, they will re-modify the already modified one and it will surely be approved -- I don't think there are any surprises in that -- today. And finally, and to finish, Mrs Prado spoke of nostalgia, and the spokesperson in this case, in this debate, of a group that was trapped between 2005 and 2008 by pure political pharisaism, because those who live permanently installed in three and a half years of alternative government to the People's Party are the People's Party itself. [[Applause]] And, if you'll excuse me -- since we're talking about youtubers and instagramers -- what I'm asking you, Mrs. Prado, is that they update. Update, because you're in front of your own reflection, you're on your way for twelve years -- with all the responsibility that this entails -- in front of the government of this country. Stop seeing ghosts where you're alone. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the groups for their support in introducing this consensus drafting which would facilitate the coherence of Article 35 of the Contracts Act, as amended by Article 31 of that Act. Thank you, Mr. Rivera. Mr. Rivera, before, for lack of time, I couldn't answer a question you spoke of. You mentioned that we introduced tax subsidies on gambling and why they weren't included in other sectors such as commerce or hospitality. And you now bitterly complained that we didn't make it easy for them to amend, for example, the Hunting Law because we introduced it through amendment. But it's just, for example, in this article that you criticized if you had the possibility to amend. You say, "You only lend bonuses to the gambling sector." Listen, but why didn't you amend and incorporate the same bonuses into the hospitality sector, the trade sector and all those sectors of what you said here that they care so much about? Oh, no! Look, we prefer to give direct help to these sectors and bonuses to the gambling sector. You don't have any direct help or bonus. Mr. Rivera, then tell me what they're doing, because you made an amendment to suppression. Because he says, "No, bonus to the gambling sector, no." Why? "Because, well, we thought they had to be other sectors as well." Well, instead of making a suppression amendment, you made an addition amendment and you incorporated more sectors. Not one or the other! But, look, in that case, Mr Rivera, we are doing something that we are not going against what other autonomous communities do in which the Socialist Party governs. Because, look, that bonus goes in line with what other autonomous communities have done, it's a tax benefit that helps in the situation provoked by this sector. The autonomous communities that adopted some kind of bonus at the tax rate rise the machine game are Murcia, Extremadura, Valencia, Catalonia, Andalusia, Aragon, Navarre, Canary Islands, Balearic Islands, Rioxa or Guipúscoa. And Aragon even set tax rates for bingos and casinos. Mr. Rivera, when I speak of other autonomous communities, of many governed by the Socialist Party, or when I speak of the State, it is not to have a debate here about what others do. I speak of coherence, of the coherence of the Socialist Party, where he governs one thing and where he is opposed, because the People's Party can't do it, but the Socialist Party, where he rules, yes. Look, that's very hard to defend, Mr. Rivera, it's very hard to defend. And what I do is a criticism of their incoherence. I don't come here to debate the state or these other autonomous communities. I call for coherence. Now, of course, you can tell me that the Socialist Party of Extremes is not the Socialist Party of Galicia, that the Socialist Party of Aragon is not the Socialist Party of... of course, I don't know if you have as many socialist parties as formations in the autonomous communities and if, moreover, you have another socialist party, which is that of Mr. Sánchez. They have 18 socialist parties. Well, the truth is it's also a novelty. Well, Mrs. Rodil, if I talk about the Bipartite, it's because you're constantly -- like you don't, but if you have a Member there who does so constantly -- in Commission 1a they're defending what the Bipartite did. And Mr. Rivera in the debate of these amendments also spoke of the good government of the Bipartite. It's not a popular party obsession, it's that you miss that two-party government! It's just that you guys have nostalgia what they were doing then! [[Murmurs.]] And my duty is to put it on the table and show them their inconsistencies. Well, I was saying that this is not really the best tool for law enforcement, but it's legal, it's constitutional, and it's democratic and useful, Mr Rivera. Yes, it's useful! It's useful because it triggers problems, because here we change issues that have been discarded by judgments. If there is a decision by the Supreme Court of Galicia that says that a paragraph of an article must be deleted, we introduce it into the Law of Measures. And what does the Socialist Party do? Please enter an amendment to recover that deletion. Man, Mr. Rivera! How we're going to accept such amendments! How we are going to accept amendments to the Public Employment Act that go against the Public Employee Statute, which are against the state law! We can't, Mr. Rivera! I've explained it to him, but, well, now I don't have much more time. And you know perfectly well that we don't apply the knee, that, when something is common sense, we approve it, support it or trade it. Mrs. Rodil, tax rises make no sense of any kind, no common sense or practical sense. And it's no use, believe me, it's no use. You, with more money and more taxes, weren't able to make a single hospital in Galicia in four years of government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look what the People's Party has done. [[Murmurs.]] Well, I'm done now. We have adopted today a law that intensifies equality policies, which provides benefits for health and socio-health workers who have been at the forefront of the care provided by the covid-19, which reduces tax pressure to the sectors most affected by the pandemic and the economic crisis it generates, and modifies legislation that improves the implementation of forest and rural policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u28	Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I think, even if it's not the best tool, we're called to be useful to citizens. And believe me that this law is useful for many things that benefit the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Debates and votes of the Ditame, delivered by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law on the demographic impulse of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u30	The amendments are maintained by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia from 1 to 3, 6, 8, 10 to 12, 16 to 25, 28 to 43, 45 to 49, 53, 55, 56, 58, 61, 62, 65, 66, 68, 69, 72, 78, 79, 82 to 88, 92 to 94 and 99 to 102. And the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group also maintains amendments from 2 to 7, from 10 to 16, 19, 20, 22, 24, to 30, 32 to 36, 39 to 43, 44 to 51, 53 to 56, 59 to 68, and 72 to 80. The president of Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment has the floor to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u31	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Demographic Impulse Act was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 29 September 2020. Its admission to the procedure was carried out by the Bureau of Parliament at its meeting on 5 October and opened the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 24 October and 11 November 2020 -- respectively for amendments to the whole and the articulated --. In particular, the amendments to the full refund submitted by the parliamentary groups of the Galician Nationalist Bloc and the Galician Socialists were rejected at the plenary meeting on 24 November 2020. For its part, the amendments to the articulation presented and admitted to the procedure were a total of 189 -- 102 of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, 80 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and 7 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia --. Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 3 December 2020, appointed the rapporteur to draw up the report, which was set up on the same date. And at the following five meetings, the rapporteurs -- Ms Raquel Arias Rodríguez, by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group; Ms Olalla Rodil Fernández, by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group; and Ms Marina Ortega Otero, by the Galician Socialist Group -- prepared the report with the final recommendations, which were issued on December 29. Subsequently, the Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 15 January, adopted the opinion that the debate and vote should be put to the vote at this plenary meeting, and the text of which contains a explanatory statement followed by a total of 109 articles which are grouped into three titles. The preliminary title collects the general provisions of the law, its object and purpose, its scope, its definitions and guiding principles and those of action. Title I is on the criteria for action and organization; and Title II deals with public policies for demographic impulses. Finally, its final part consists of two additional provisions, a derogation provision and eight last provisions, in which the change made to different normative bodies is established and requires its entry into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal of Galicia. It is therefore necessary to complete today the processing of this legislative procedure with the approval, if any, of the draft law of demographic impulse of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u32	Thank you very much. We now turn to the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments maintained. First of all, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Ortega Otero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u33	Thank you, President. I want to start by naming a very important word: empathy. It's a very familiar word for people we study psychology -- which I know there are several -- but now also for all citizenship -- and more in a context like what we're living --. Empathy means to put oneself in the place of others so as to be able to know how they feel in a certain situation. Empathy is that word that today, more than ever before, there are people who have the most developed one and another, less; but there is something that we all know, and that empathy is assured when we go through the same situation. I belong to a lost generation, to that escape of talent and ability, to a generation in which both boys and girls have not found a future in our land according to their possibilities. It was a generation in which many young people and girls wanted to work here, a very professionally trained generation or with middle or higher education -- and many and many of us, thanks to scholarships --. And we all, of course, had help from our families, from parents and mothers who wanted their children to have the opportunity that most of them didn't have. But that dream faded to the majority when they went into the labour market with all the illusion and found themselves with a harsh reality: often directly with unemployment and then with the sad dilemma of having to choose between less qualified or precarious work or packing and leaving their land, their family, their friends, their life and roots in Galicia. [[Applause]] I'm from this generation and I've got most of my friends out there. I know what's wrong with them. I know what's wrong with their families. And for all that, I can't help thinking about the new generations today in this crisis. I can't help thinking about what you're feeling about that youth who's looking for a job in this complex situation. And for all this, ladies and gentlemen, I can't understand how the Greek Government has cut into the budget of the specific youth game in the budget this year. This fact leads us to the fear of reviving the same once again. I can't understand how it's possible to bring to this House a law of demographic impulse cutting into the specific economic departure of youth, when we know it's a key piar for the demographic challenge, to avoid another emigration wave of our youth. I can't understand how the German Government brings to this House a law of population impulse while cutting off the specific game of population fixation in rural areas. I can't understand, ladies and gentlemen, how the People's Party brings this law while closing schools in rural areas. I can't understand how this Government of the People's Party brings a law that is supposed to be to fight against Greek depopulation and then the Welsh PP has no pity when it comes to cutting in health -- almost 500 hospital beds less in the last decade --. [[Applause]] It's the world in reverse, the top of incoherence! I congratulate you from here -- that's yes -- the Welsh government's marketing team, which makes them have headlines and go out in the media saying they're the first to bring a law of demographic impulse. While, at the same time, they cut out services in rural areas, in health, in education, in youth, and there's a balance of 70,000 jobs less in the last decade in Galicia, a whole molotov cocktail for a mass fugitive. [[Applause]] Here's the Social Policy Advisor. Where are your comrades? She's alone. Where are your comrades and companions, advisors and advisors, and the president himself, who have to be part of such an important matter for Galicia? Where is the teamwork in an area where all the competences of the Union should be working and putting resources on such a big issue for our land? [[Murmurs.]] Galicia is the most affected community in all Spain because of depopulation. We have to be aware of one thing: our land is the pre-monitoring place of a challenge that we must face with responsibility. This law does not do so because it shows a totally reductionist vision forgetting the premise of which a project of such magnitude should be divided: transversality. All areas of the German Government should form a work in this law and a set of running resources that does not exist; so, as a result, an empty content window law is offered. Not only one area can be formed, all areas will have to be drawn. It's a reductionist vision. Thickness is based on punctual measures and without great transcendence in the family sphere, but other pillars are forgotten, such as the setting of population in rural areas -- where the game goes down, I've already commented -- and youth -- without which this law makes no sense more than to give a simple headline --. Where are the commitments to shield services -- such as public health, education or housing -- to bring us closer to equal opportunities regardless of where we live, whether rural or urban? Where are the measures of silence for the people's rebalancing driving the rural and the talent associated with the territory? There's no unity and teamwork to ensure that sine qua transversality doesn't have to have every law to cover sense. It is a reflection that the German Government is disappointed, with areas functioning independently of the others. And this has to change given the moment we meet. In addition, there is another no less important problem on which the Government of Greece is not studying and making a clear diagnosis to develop a plan that works. And it's about the negationism of a German government that doesn't support the loss of the so-called "best generation of history", the so-called " talent escape." Did the Galician Economic Forum itself focus on this issue through a recent report entitled "Fuga de talent" in Galicia, myth or reality? And these are the conclusions. He insists -- and I quote textually -- "in the need to open a debate on this issue with specific and objective data. The escape of talent is something to be very present. The mobility of workers is something innate in the economy. The problem arises when it systematically renounces highly trained people who are forced to emigrate. Galicia annually incurs a cost of forming titles that eventually migrate -- look at the data -- "from at least 170 million euros a year". That's what it costs us to the Greeks and to the Greeks. In addition, this migration process of Welsh titers is a loss of 1,500 births of children and children who are no longer born in Galicia. Another important fact, derived from this emigration of our talent, is that they stop creating new companies in Galicia in the year 315. They are alarming and worrisome data, but they record this reality. Following this data, authors themselves make and recommend certain key questions: First, there is a need for greater efforts in employment to adjust supply and demand for work. Second. The creation of jobs must necessarily go through the creation of innovative companies; more investment in innovation and research. There is a need to adopt public policies that can compete on equal terms. We need to push technology-related activities in Galicia, it's urgent. Cooperation between the productive sector and the university system in Galicia must be promoted. We need to guarantee quality of life in general, and in particular -- and I quote textually -- to youth so they don't emigrate. If we want to recover and attract talent, we need to develop return policies and talent attraction. But not only this, there are many other evidences such as those from the Department of Geography itself at the University of Santiago de Compostela, which indicates that approximately 150,000 Greeks and Greeks have had to leave Galicia in the last two decades. The problem -- they indicate -- it's not only quantitative, but qualitative, because young and well-trained people are going. Our group has drawn up a series of amendments based on a base: that we do not share the very essence of this law; so we believe that it would be necessary to fully re-elaborate a legislative text that makes a mere declaration of intentions of nullity shut down for our society and without compromising budgetary shares or concrete actions that become significant for one of the most important challenges for our land. Of what value is a law that reduces your vision only in detail or timely help for mothers and parents or in the nativity field? What do I use a child's check if I don't have a pediatrician or an accessible school to take my son? [[Applause]] I come from the epicenter of depopulation, Ourense. In our province we're witnessing what's going to happen in the rest of Galicia and the country, if we don't do it right, of course. There we are aware, because we live the reality from within, that the problem is not only the population aging itself, but the youth that goes. And for this not to happen, we can't lose 70,000 jobs again, like in the last decade in Galicia, while the rest of the country is rising. They can't continue to cut public health like half a thousand hospital beds in the last decade, or all the missing health professionals. We cannot allow them to continue to be cut off in education or in services where they need the most to rebalance the countryside. Why are rurals now being punished, for example, by taking out services with a new school transport contract that has made children worse the service that takes them to schools, even having to spend more hours in transport or even taking off their own local jobs, which is the key to the demographic challenge? These are the pillars, if we want to be serious about demographic reconstruction and not use a law just to go out on headlines. Where are the clear rural commitments collected? Where are the concrete measures or economic action lines to promote quality employment and adjust supply and demand? Where are the measures to encourage youth work? Where are the concrete measures to guarantee the right to housing along the territory? Where is this government's investment in industry and trade to promote territorial rebalancing? Where is the commitment to shield public services in the areas of health, education and care for the elderly and dependents in rural areas? Where are the commitments, measures and funds to dynamize the population? We rewrite Galicia's history, change course, make it possible together, all areas of government, putting resources on the table. They cannot go on the one hand to the letters of the title of this law and, on the other, to the other, to the opposite direction, the kind of policies that have characterized this Greek government for over a decade. [[Applause]] The Greek socialists, by responsibility, cannot support this law, because it would be to deceive our own citizenship, because it is a wet role that is not a solution to the serious demographic problem of our country. The problem of demography is not solved by a law with words that do not compromise this government at all, nor by neonatalist approaches, because it's a very complex issue that covers all sectors. You can't be the social policy advisor alone, you had to be all counselors and advisors. But to lay the foundations for breaking the existing demographic dynamics, for population and new trends, they work from the Galician Union for quality employment, social services and housing. It's here, in this kind of question and in which I've just reported, where the Government of Wales is missing. And do you know why they bring a law that doesn't compromise virtually anything in most areas, but what if you'll probably get demo headlines? Because they want to hide the returning policies of the past eleven years, they want to run a smoke curtain to cover the cuts that brought us here. This law has neither the scope nor the commitment to address Galicia's serious demographic challenge. As time passes, Galicia becomes smaller in population and older, and you continue without generating opportunities for the people of our country and cutting them off. Before a reductionist law, without transversality and negationist of a reality, we don't want to be accomplices of this deception to citizenship. They reform and compromise clear actions and splits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u35	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. I'll also try to be as clear and as direct as possible. Look, when the process of processing this law started here -- I told you the day we discussed the amendment to the whole BNG presented -- one of the questions that we asked ourselves was whether to face a demographic change as big as what our country suffered in recent decades was needed a law. And we were already saying at that time that we understood this law as a country agreement or as a way to place a political priority on the table, a consensus, at least, of all the forces that make up this House. And we faced this debate with an objective, which was to face I think one of the greatest challenges we have as Greeks and as Greeks in the present and in the future, which is no other than the first: to adapt to our own reality and not to live back to it. What was the approach we were working with since the BNG when the processing process of this law began? To face this challenge with the objective of generating opportunities for development that make possible a life plan with the highest rates of well-being in our country, because demographic behavior and demography is not a sum or a rest of deaths and births, but it depends entirely on the development model that is applied in a particular territory or country. The demographic impulse is not to attempt to reach a certain number of inhabitants as an ideal number, not to achieve a specific goal in relation to the number of populations, but to ensure that the people we live and work in a particular territory, in a particular country, whether many or few, contain with the necessary means to develop a project of life -- I insist -- with the greatest possible social and collective welfare quotas. That's the demographic impulse. And one of the amendments that BNG presented was precisely going to change the definition that demographic impulse is given in the law to put and do a lot of emphasis on this issue. We, when the processing process began, presented a whole refund amendment. We asked the Government to take the text again and, for three political reasons, to give it a turn and bring it back, after that rethinked one here. The first one is because it was designed and it's made of vagueities and generalities. It is not a law with a firm objective, something which has certainly pointed out, not the BNG or the rest of the political forces, but the Galician Economic and Social Council in the report accompanying the text itself sent to this House. We since the BNG want, throughout this process of processing, to set concrete commitments to convert those declarations of intentions into real objectives. We wanted to set specific deadlines for the development of the law itself and that these gifts to the sun had to materialize within a given period of time. Each and every one of the BNG's amendments aimed at setting that time limit were rejected; none accepted. And this isn't a ballad, it's not a thug or an occurrence of this lordship when he got up one day in the morning. Look, there are articles of the law that, rather than reflecting concrete commitments by the Government itself, what evidence is their non-compliance over the last eleven -- go to twelve -- some of them announced, by the way, that they have taken enormous media intensity in the last few weeks. One of the great headlines we've seen these days was the novelty that introduces this text with regard to the recognition and creation of a single-parent family register and a specific plan to address the specific reality of this type of family, of single-parent families, in its vast majority formed by women. You voted against BNG's initiatives in this House three times over the past four years that had precisely this objective: the recognition and creation of the Single Parent Family Register. The last one, from a bill we defended and brought to this House in 2018. That is the dialogue and consensus of the People's Party. But it was also a promise announced and acquired by the Galician Council itself in 2011, as Social Policy Counsellor King Varela. We were also announced the strategy of unwanted loneliness. This was a unanimous commitment in this House in 2019. We did a little test there, and we tabled an amendment to make it publicly available within six months, and if you approve that strategy to tackle unwanted loneliness in Greek homes. And they told us, we can't accept it, six months is impossible. They said in 2019 -- and we just started, as you know, 2021 -- that they were already working on it. We made that little six-month game to see if, indeed, whether it was working or not, and we're already clear that it wasn't. Another of the great promises or major commitments is the extension, for example, of advanced teleassistion, when the basic has only one degree of coverage today in our country -- data from both the Imserso and the Galician Economic Forum -- of 2.7%, 8 points below the state average. In this plenary we will talk, and much, about this kind of service. Eleven years of government and, according to the Council's own data, in 2019 there were 8,212 people in Galicia with basic teleassistants and 161 people with advanced or more teleassisted or, at least, more advanced than the previous one. To make an image as close as possible to the reality we're talking about, in Galicia there are over 67,000 persons with legally recognized dependence. It's a very low percentage, and here we announce the bomb and dish that suddenly we're going to switch from 2.7% of basic coverage to absolute coverage, without fixing any kind of real or temporary commitment to basic teleassistion. We also defend our amendment to return and the position that this group has been holding on to the law that it was a project that is repulsive to failed Christmas policies. I know they don't like to hear this, they say it's not true, but I put the example of a dynamization strategy -- that's how they called it -- demographics that approved the Government of the Galician Union and the People's Party in 2013. You go back to that Strategy and you do what the policies were. They are exactly the same ones that are collected in the thick of the articulate of this law. In 2013, you marked us the goal of Galicia reaching 1.5 birth rates in our country. Today it was a little more advanced, a little slower, the report of the Galego Institute of Statistics on demographic variables. Take a look at what the reality is, seven years after the People's Party's governments. They are stubborn and insist; they insist on the same policies that will lead to the same result as they have so far. What do we want with our amendments -- and we're going to part of the debate that was intense in the presentation and commission --? We wanted a more universal, more inclusive law that addresses all the realities, multiple and diverse, that exist in our country. And then we want to incorporate, into the definition article, the term "foam" in front of the vision -- we say it already in the first debate -- totally reductionist and conservative of "family" that you introduced into the law, and I say conservative because they reduce it to the one that is in childhood. As we already know -- and I'm the first -- we're nobody, and, like what they say from the Block and this server comes in through their ears and goes out to them, because today I wanted to bring -- to see if we're able, at least, to have an academically debate on the same frames -- the report that the Galician Demographic Observatory prepared for this law, using it as a basis. Because we were told that "family" and "home" are synonymous. It's not true, it's a lie. And then I bring the report, Counselor, which you also know, and I hope you read it with arrest. It says to the Observatory: "The private home" -- and I quote literally -- "is defined as a person or a group of people who commonly occupy a principal housing and part of it or other property from the same budget. The family is a group of people, two or more, who, living in the same family home, are bound by bonds of kinship, whether blood or politicians." So -- says the Observatory, not Olalla Rodil or the Block, "home and family differ in that home can be one-person, while the family has to consist of at least two members." It was not a horror, but it was a desire to address a growing and important reality in our country. [[Applause]] The Demographic Observatory says that in Galicia -- and it seems that this is the only political force to which his ingenious work was of interest and that we thank, even though it is only for the knowledge acquired collectively as a country -- the analysis of the typology of homes reflects the increase in the relative importance of single-person homes and couples without descendants. They also experience a slight growth in single parents. In the other categories, their representativeness goes down. In fact, 50% of single-person homes are made up of people over 65, mostly women. We think this is a law of the future, or should -- I tell you, this isn't-- This should be a law of the future that would have to face the reality that we have today, but it has to have long lights to see where the country walks. And the reality of women -- basically women -- who live alone in Galicia and make up Greek homes is a reality that needs to be addressed, and that, in a law of demographic impulse, should be central subject to the law itself; from this I say no. Then there's a compensation for amendments that we were told we couldn't accept because they were talking about research, land management, housing or other kinds of rights, such as transportation, and they didn't take everything into account in this law. We, what do we say from the beginning -- reason why we present those amendments --? That there was a lack of real commitment by the Government in both elements to address strategically this Greek demographic reality: one, migration, both flows inside and outside the country, and longevity. And we say no commitment, because most of the amendments of the BNG, I insist, that they would precisely compensate and balance those two areas in the whole of the legal articulated were directly to the waste box of the People's Party. What did they refuse -- let's put the cards on the table, I think in an exercise of democracy and transparency --? What did BNG present in its amendments -- that almost 80% of them ended up in the trash--? A strategic bet of research, development and innovation, through the creation and fixing of a tangible target that forces the Galician Union to move towards an investment like the strategic horizon of 2.5 % of GDP. We will speak in this plenary and today too. To say that R & D is a strategic sector that has to be central to the modernization and transformation of the economy and of the productive sectors of Greece is not achieved with words only. You have to have concrete goals and you have to set them by law as well. A country like ours, which invests less than 1% of its gross domestic product in science, doesn't go anywhere, anywhere. Galicia needs, if you want to move demographically, more science, more research, better working conditions, more and better public services and, above all, less propaganda, because propaganda is not eaten. And if there's no employment contract, working conditions and living conditions, people don't stay either in their county or their country. I invite you -- I don't have time -- to take a look at the demographic impulse strategy that the German Government has, for example, through the Max Planck center network, or also the example of the Demographic Impulse Agency for Scotland and the Highlands Islands, highlands, and islands of Scotland. What has the People's Party accepted in recent minutes? What does that supposed consensus consist of? It's just that you have a curious conception of what consensus is: basically, let's come here and applaud with your ears and vote what suits you at every moment. And consensus isn't that. What did they accept? For example, the definition of "active ageing" of the World Health Organization -- well, a subversive thing, everyone sees it -- resources for the Galego Institute of Statistics -- that's already in other laws -- creates a web space to disseminate the work of the Observatory of Demographic Dynamics, at least with a shared knowledge objective and right of access to information; changing the term "integration" by "inclusion"; including older people in the citizen's participation, because --curious vision of demographic impulse they have!-- in the only article that speaks of citizen participation, they were collected only as specific population categories for children, children and adolescents. And what about 25 percent of the population in this country? No voice or vote. It was incorporated with an amendment that was accepted by the BNG. So, the incorporation of older people, persons with disabilities and single-parent families with dependents, or persons with disabilities in charge, in the housing adaptation aids, which is basic, if we want -- among other things, even if we only want to see in economic terms -- reduce public investment in health, which can predict if we have better living conditions in our homes. Falls and breaks in the chair end in days or weeks of hospitalization and, if we can avoid them, we can gain better social well-being. The Support, Advice and Support Program for Immigrants, too, because only the returned Welsh population was contemplated, and to us it seems great, but we say: what if someone comes from Namibia, if someone comes from Istanbul or someone comes from any other part of the globe? For he also has a strong public network that guarantees this accompaniment to work in terms of a more inclusive society. We wanted, in our proposal, to incorporate, as part of the obligations of counseling and information from the Greek Government, the labour rights, which are fundamental rights, and they told us not. You will know why, but I set the example for them. We accept that transaction, even not being 100 percent in agreement with it, for the sake of that consensus, of that dialogue, or of that search for the agreement -- and with this already finished, president -- because we had that will from the very first moment. From the very first moment, we had a desire for dialogue, okay, but today's statement that we are debating, even with the approaches that improve the text, incorporated by the BNG, is not enough because it does not change a wrong political approach that does not go to the center of the demographic reality of our country and which has motivated, in addition to, at the moment, the whole amendment that has presented this group and which has motivated the partial amendments that we are keeping alive today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u37	The consensus -- finished, president -- must be built, it must be worked, it must start, in addition, from a clear will on the part of all sides, it does not fill its mouth with talking about it, and you were very clear from the beginning of the process of this project that would not move an apex of its initial positions. What we see today is a missed opportunity, but, calm down, that we will continue to work here. Today they have the absolute majority to move forward...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u39	...his law, but it's not a country law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u40	Thank you very much. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mrs. Arias Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u41	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Today, in this Parliament, we are making history. Galicia becomes the first autonomous community, also within Europe, to have a law to face the demographic challenge. Look, the increase in life expectancy, the decrease in fertility, the change in living conditions in the home, with increasingly diverse family structures -- Mrs. Olalla Rodil, it's true -- these are common factors for all developed countries. But how we deal with this new situation, how we remedy it, how we look at it will depend on the future, the future of Galicia; the social, economic, cultural and environmental future. Hence the importance of this law at a time when all the developed countries are having the demographic challenge in their agenda, and even in what the European Union and the UN also ask all countries to do so, to put their hands on the demographic challenge, something in which the Government of Galicia has been pioneering since 2009. The Government of Nuñez Feijóo has brought together the interests of the autonomys that had similar problems. He went to the State Government and proposed initiatives such as the creation of the Commissioner for the demographic challenge and at the same time issued reports to the European Community. Today he had a meeting, a work desk, with the European Community Demographic Officer. And, in the meantime, what was being done in Galicia? Well, as Galicia was putting in place totally innovative measures that had to do with demography -- cross-sectional measures from all the councils -- by the way, I don't know where Mr. Caballero is, who is not listening to this today, so much that Mrs. Marina Ortega is concerned that the whole world is absolutely in this plenary -- Well apart from working, absolutely from all the councils, a specific general address has been created for the subject of demography, the Galego Observatory for Demographic Dynamics, and such innovative measures as those that go on in the birth support plan, where we have the foster homes, the Welcome Card, the Good Council, the Good Care, or something that is only being done in Galicia, which is the freeness of the children's schools for the second and next children, even though the following are over 18 years old. We also have other means such as the rural fixation plan, the zero tax plan in rural or the plan returns, so that those Welsh families who had to emigrate can come back here. Finally, these are a series of measures in which we are at the vanguard throughout Spain, and today, one more day, we have the opportunity -- and we're going to do it -- at least from the People's Group we're going to do it -- from being at the vanguard, from turning into law those measures that are being done and those that have to be done in the future. Because, look, this law will guarantee what is already being done, but this law lays the foundations for all the measures that have to do with demography from now on are done absolutely cross-sectionally, and not only from the Galician Union, but also by cooperating with other institutions, because, if not, we cannot take this to good port; for example, with the municipalities, to those who are being told: look, you will receive more funds from the state and the Galician Union, with us programs to support demographic dynamization, according to the efforts you make, and also taking into account the demographic situation of your municipalities. This law will also establish consensus, cooperation, work together with the private sector, because without the private sector, without the whole society, we can't go ahead either. Finally, this law will lay the groundwork for all those who decide to have a child, when they decide to have a child, to think that Galicia is the best place to raise him and to form a family; for young people to see here the best place to develop themselves personally and professionally and also for older people to see here the best place to take these more advanced years of their life. In short, a place to live and grow old, that's what this law wants; this law you're telling you not. It is a law that comes here with a broad consensus, which is part of the Galician report: demographic prospects, to which you voted in favour, unanimously -- the Block did not present any allegations -- and the PSOE did present allegations and we accept 60%. When this law came here, we accepted 34% of the amendments they tabled, and it seems that now this law does not go with you, that you do not agree with anything, when it turns out that half of the law did not make any claim to you. Therefore, so inconsequential with the law must not be. Honestly, what I saw here today in your speeches, more than excuses, sounded to me... I'm sorry, more than reasons to vote against, I sounded excuses, just excuses, because, Mrs. Rodil, those who had the work done before were you. You came to the gallery thinking clearly that they were going to vote that they didn't and that they gave everything the same. Don't accuse us of what you were thinking, don't. Look, one thing, for example. Since this law entered Parliament until the debate was held, we have had the pandemic of cowardice. For the People's Party was the only one who introduced amendments so that this law could adapt to a new situation. Thus, we include the special protection of older children, the special protection of children also in child education centres -- when they go -- and we also make reconciliation services available to adults and children in case they once again give an extraordinary situation in terms of epidemiology, so they don't have to make resources on the way, as we have to do at this point. Well, the Block didn't vote for it. Mrs. Rodil, do you want to tell me if you don't agree with these measures, if they don't seem necessary, or if you just did it through political sectarianism -- because you were presenting the PP and you weren't going to approve anything that the PP had done? Another thing BNG didn't support is that Sergas guarantees the treatment of assisted reproduction to those women whose fertility problems come from a pathology. Again, Mrs. Rodil, do you really not agree with this? In conscience you don't agree with this? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or did they not vote in favour because whoever presented it was the People's Party? Anyway... You said we were focusing this on a family law. No, look, it's not true, and we're not forgetting the debate either. We talk about family in this law, we talk about homes, we talk about two things, but you're the only one who did it was take the label maker and say, "Where's the family?" We'll get rid of it. Where does the family come from? We removed, we removed... it was just like this, and so they tabled amendments: 13, to 14, to 24, to 25, to 28, to 29, to 30, to 32 and to 39. From a pen they drew everything that had to do with the family. We recognize in the law -- because it has to be -- the absolute diversity of families that currently exist, but what can't be, is that the word "family" is removed from the law and the word "family" from the dictionary, because apart from the legal positions on it, it's clear that in society this is not so, there's no such feeling that the family doesn't have to be. And they say he's a nativeist, because 10 percent -- 10 percent! -- the measures that are in the law are birth support measures, when a father and a mother decide to have a child, as long as they already decide. Are you not in favour of conciliation measures? I always ask them, but they never answer me. Apparently not, so you're coming in successively. So, for example, you asked to eliminate the best interests of the child, you asked to delete a report that had fixed the cost of raising a child to emancipation, and you asked to delete the article that had been given special consideration to numerous families, because you assume that large families have enough money and do not need any help. I've already told you in the debate in the committee, and I'm going back to say now: all the numerous families you know are millionaires? It's lucky, if so, because the statistical reality is that many, practically from many families, belong to families with few economic resources and need help. And you ask me what we proposed. I say, of course: we propose to include single-parent families. But, let's see!, we included single-parent families, of course we included them... Sorry, single-parent families were included, and what we did was bring them to the joint, but as they are in the joint they were already included in the law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Then don't tell me what it was now. They can live together, because, in fact, single-parent families need help, and so we're going to do it and this plan and that record is going to be done, but many families also need that special consideration. [[Applause]] Look, in this law it's about youth, it's about old age, it's about loneliness, it's about vulnerability, it's about new population, it's about all that. But trying to make a demo law in which you don't talk about family or about births, honestly, it's an extravagance. And you know very well; it doesn't make any sense. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] One of the things we all agree on is that it is necessary to attract new population. Well, you just said here that, thanks to your amendments, there are also help for those who are not returned. That's not true. The law already included specific measures for returnees and for other groups of people who had come. We admit your amendments in this respect too, but, of course, they don't seem right to you nor to those who don't admit themselves. Totally, I don't know what you agree with, because you used the same tone to talk about those we didn't admit to. But, look, what we don't agree with you is that you don't have to have a special consideration for those Greeks and Greeks who have to go out and now want to return. That's what we don't agree with you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Ortega, frankly, you probably have a lot of empathy, I don't deny it, I'm sure, but what you don't have is law knowledge. And it's not like I'm telling you; whoever heard you here today and took the law -- which was already hung in Parliament; you can see it when it's finally approved -- will realize that what you're saying isn't true. And, look, you're talking about all those guys who had to leave. True, there are young people who have had to leave, but what's true is that in 2019 we have the best migration balance in the historical series, which has reached 6,000 more than they have left, and in the last ten years they have returned to Galicia 47,610 more than they have left. That's the data. And in the data given today by the INE, by the way, they say that in Galicia we keep going down at birth, it's true, but we're going down less than last year and we're going down less than the average of Spain. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] It's not to be happy, but it's to tell us that we're on the right path, that the means that we're taking are going on the right path, though we know that the measures that have to do with demography have to be in the middle and long term. Hence the importance of reaching a law of consensus, as is the law that came here today, even if you vote against it. He had a consensus in writing, he had a consensus in negotiation, there was not a hundred percent agreement, but that doesn't mean there was no work in common and that there was no listening to their contributions, which, by the way, we appreciate because they actually improve the law. It's a law that raises the commitment to universalizing child education from 0-3 years old, collected in an amendment where we come into a transaction with the PSOE. By the way, he was already saying something to which the PP agrees and, in fact, he already has the freedom for the second child. Mrs. Ortega, talk to Madrid and send us some money, which we want to put free for everyone. By the way, you make that call, tell them that all those parents who can't send their children to school because of the problem of the coward, are waiting for the government to give them what you promised them a year ago for that conciliation resource at this time. For now, only those who offer Galician Union. Finally, it's a law that counts with a minimum annual budget of EUR 800,000. It is a law that speaks of territorial balance absolutely, with diversification of economic activity, improves in telecommunications, business alone, incentives, bonuses and investments in rural areas, as it is already being done, and in order to achieve a balance of population in rural areas, both in numbers as well as in sex and in age. He's talking cross-sectional. Mrs. Marina Ortega, read the law. He's talking about absolutely every subject. By the way, I'm also from R & D, also from transport, also from housing. What you can't pretend is, within a law, to make other laws, as it was what the BNG wanted. It's a law that talks about collaboration and cooperation with all administrations, as I said, about active aging, about the improvement of teleassistion -- which seems so bad to Mrs. Rodil; it seems that we're not going to be able to get to that -- about home aid, about digital literacy and about aspects like unwanted loneliness or vulnerable families, in which it also puts the victims of gender violence. Special emphasis is placed on youth policies, where, in addition, it will include a return plan for those who go out to improve their formation -- it's an amendment in which we come to agreement with the Socialist Party. It's a cross-sectional law, because, as I said, it collects all the materials. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what we approve of here today is a law that is not of any party. It's a country law, with which I think we can all feel comfortable without having to give up our ideology, and that's why I once again ask you to recapcitate, that they're still in time, and that they become a country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u42	Thank you, Mrs Arias. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u43	Thank you, President. The truth is that the intervention of the People's Party representative is revealing, because it really confirms what we were saying. If you realise, you have only talked about concrete measures, about family measures. But then, when he spoke, for example, of the rural population fixation, he didn't say they dropped the game this year, by 2021. So, what kind of strategy? It has not been in detail in any of them, only in which they relate, in this case, to the area of the Social Policy Council or to the area of the family. So they're really giving us the reason for lack of transversality. The law only focuses on one point, and this is a very complex area. The subject of demography is of great magnitude, especially for Galicia, which we are the most affected in every country; it is very important and covers many issues in all areas. So we can't just focus on an area, and you've noticed your intervention, actually, that it was. Then he also talked about the positive migration balance, and he came to see again that he doesn't understand what we're talking about. I've read details of a report from the Galego Economic Forum -- and, by the way, also from the University of Santiago de Compostela -- which was clearly exposed to this. They said there might be a positive migration balance in a year, but what to look at is not just the quantitative term but the qualitative term: that people leave, why they leave, what age-break and what kind of training they have. You said here that yes, well, the escape of talent... well, some left, but few left. No, many have gone away, Your Honor, many have gone away, unfortunately. [[Applause]] Do you honestly believe that it is serious to bring to the House a law of demography and at the same time -- at the very moment, I'm talking about a few days ago -- wanting to close Begonte's school, with a mayor of the People's Party as a pioneer -- seriously, the first mayor to ask him to close a school in his village--? You think this is consistent? [[Applause]] But do you really think it's serious to bring this law to the House and repudiate the chief of gynecology from a comarcal hospital like the one in Verín for opposing the closure of the Parish promoted by his government? But do you really think it's serious to bring to this House a law of demography and cutting off on the 2021 budget -- with which it's falling -- the game of fixing population in rural areas? [[Applause]] But do you really think it's consistent to bring this Demographic Act and present some assumptions in which they forget about youth, lowering the game straight to that? Could they really look into the eyes, with this law in hand, at the Courel's families after running the new school transport contract, which significantly worsens the conditions of children for their displacement to school? More time of displacement and job cuts at the local level, which is the basis, the very essence that aims to have a text of law that goes on to demography. [[Applause]] More hours in school transport, worsening the quality of transport and, look!, leaving jobs at local level. Is that how you want to fight against depopulation? Do you really think bringing a demo law and at the same time maintaining a negationist attitude, trying to cover up the emigration wave, is it really smart or practical to address this issue? They recognize this reality! They promote studies to extract data, to work on it, to invest and, above all, block opportunities for our youth. Look, the difference, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, between what words are and what may be written in this law are the words, but reality is the facts. And the facts are this: the demographic crisis in Galicia: 5,000 pupils and 100 schools less in childhood than ten years ago. [[Mrs. Ortega Otero shows and reads a document.]] The Galician Union has already accumulated 200 closures since 2009 in schools, this is the reality. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] More reality -- or never seen!-- : the first mayor of history to ask for the closure of a school of his Town Hall, of the People's Party. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows and reads another document.]] [[Applause]] More reality : a judge prevents the board from closing this course to the school of Berducido, also promoted by the board of Galicia. [[Mr. Ortega Otero shows and reads a third document.]] If it hadn't been for justice, the centers would have been closed. [[Applause]] The media themselves had to lie to the president of the Galician board himself when he said they had 500 more beds since they got to the Government, when actually what we had was 500 fewer hospital beds. Another truth! These are the truths. Empty classes in Folgoso do Courel to demand the Galician board to rectify the design of school transport routes, because children have to spend more hours in transport and there is a cut in the trades that have those workers in the area, who were used to carry out this question. Let's keep going. And finally, as always -- because there are many, and these are the most recent -- "Lanzo" -- that's from the mountain neighbours they look -- "a relief message: administrations have to act to save the mountain shine." [[Mrs. Ortega Otero shows and reads a document.]] Like these kinds of questions, lots of them. One thing is the words, the laws, the texts, and another thing is the actions, and in the actions it is true, lords of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u45	Stop cropping and contribute to the future for our youth!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u46	Thank you, Mrs Ortega. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u47	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. I'm not going to be angry today, Mrs. Arias. The other day, in the Commission, I became angry, and I was very angry, because I did not expect that degree of defamation, lies, falsehood and manipulation as to what we said, what we did and what we, as a parliamentary group, as BNG, presented through the amendments. Not today, I'm not going to get angry; I thought, in addition, in the morning and I said, "He'll do the same, you keep it as you can." [[Laughter]] And making history -- no, man -- that was the goal, that's what they wanted. [[Murmurs.]] You wanted to get out of here saying that they were going to approve the first European law in a demographic drive; they wanted that title and they got it. Yeah, look, that's great! What we were wondering about with all this processing process was whether the approval of this law would serve to change things in this country or, at least, to lay the groundwork for starting to change them. The demographic reality that we live is not a kind of divine condemnation, or that women here, having the ability to have children, we decided not to have them, you don't know why. No, he has a reason, and a profound, besides, social transformation in this country. Getting to a much more democratic society, breaking up with roles and gender stereotypes also has a lot to do with the demographic outcome of our country. In addition, we try to focus this debate quietly, and we try to do so by giving a political debate and from the ideological distance of the political forces that we make up this House, even more so, between the People's Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. We always try to do so by arguing, always supporting the political position that we defend in data, and we also try to create that common diagnostic framework. We said on the first day that we were in agreement with the diagnosis that I collected the explanatory statement and the extensive and detailed report of the Demographic Observatory, which we thought was very interesting. We agreed with that and started working from there. But what's the matter? -- let's say it on the day we tabled the amendment to the whole-- That after the rest, the articulate of the law, it is not in the sense of intervening about that reality, about the structural problems that this country brings in to try to change it. And with an objective -- I said it in the first intervention -- that for BNG what the demographic impulse means is to create the living conditions that allow anyone in any genre, identity, orientation or age to develop their life project here with the greatest possible social welfare quotas, whether a person is under 5 years old, be a heterosexual, homosexual or medio-pensionist family, be a person greater than 65, be a person of 35 who decides to live alone and leave their parents' home to get emancipated... we always focus on it because development and what is going to happen in demographic terms in our country will inevitably pass by the ability that we have to generate these decent living and working conditions in Galicia. That's the approach we had with this law and the principles that motivated our work. We, throughout the Phoenicia, had enormous differences with the bill that brought together the Board -- we said it here and we tabled a whole amendment and an amendment to return precisely for that political distance with regard to the approach to the law -- but we saw, both the process of processing partial amendments and the process of tabling, with a tendency, with a desire for dialogue and debate. We had a lot of discussion at the meetings that took place. Besides, I too -- and we said it in the Commission and I think it's good to repeat it now -- I think it was always a good tone, so I was angry at the Commission the day we discussed saying it, because tone had completely broken the working space that had been created in the Phoenician Republic, despite the differences. We never abdicate the responsibility we have as a parliamentary group to improve the texts, even if they are not in favour or entirely in agreement with them. Because to me that was much easier -- that's why I was referring to counseling and support for migrant people who are not Germans and returned Greeks -- and still not in agreement, we accepted that transaction, because it seemed to us that it enriched, improved and expanded the article in particular and the set of text. But it doesn't happen -- really, Mrs Arias and Counsellor -- of a whole amendment, of a refund amendment, of a favorable vote, of a bill, just with the alterations -- if you want to see it like this -- that was approved during the presentation process. I referred to my first intervention to which amendments were accepted by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. They don't go to the bottom of the question, they don't approach the political approach, but they just incorporate a few issues, such as -- what I was saying -- guaranteeing resources to the IGE -- man!, it's a right of this country's whole, and it's collected into other laws -- or incorporating the concept or definition given by the World Health Organization of "active aging." If you have that word in the title of a law, man, it seems to us that the minimum is to incorporate it into the article that collects the definitions. As I finished the previous intervention, the consensus must work. And this doesn't end here, there's a lot of legislation left, and there's a lot of parliamentary and political work in this House. You have the absolute majority -- that's what we never deny -- to vote on this law and to get approved, do it, but I insist that they go alone. It's not a law of the House as a whole or at least of the people of Greece who feel represented in the political forces that we are here. This is his law. They've got 42 seats, they've got them all taken out of their budgets or so many other legal projects.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u49	...but it's not a law of consensus or a country agreement. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Mrs Rodil, it is true, BNG and PSOE will lose the historic opportunity to be in favour of Spain's first law of demographic impulse and pioneer in Europe as well; that is the reality. And they do it in a context where cowardice is causing the biggest health, social and economic crisis we know and where consensus is more important than ever. In this context they're going to do it, and they're going to do it with a matter, the demographic, that all reports say it's vital for the future development of Galicia, and they're going to do it with a law that, as has been said over and over again, arrives here with a very broad consensus. And once you get here, you don't make any claims to half of the articles, and the rest we approve of 34 percent. But yet you are not able to vote in favour of this law! A law -- yes, yes, that's right --. [[Murmurs.]] And you know why they do it? The sad thing is that they don't do it by data, they don't because they disagree, they just do it -- as I told you in my first intervention -- by political sectarianism. That's the saddest thing. Hard paper, Mrs. Rodil and Mrs. Ortega, when they get out there explain why you're not in favour of this law. Because Mrs. Rodil is right, this is not the law of the BNG; indeed, it is not the law of the BNG, but it is not the law of the People's Party either. This is the law of universities, trade unions, business organisations, representatives of the third sector, of all associations that, on the one hand, have come to contribute to this law. This is also the law of all the Greeks and the Greeks who, through all the parliamentary groups that we are here, have made contributions. I want to thank everyone -- the civil society that participated and all political groups -- their contributions because, it's true, these contributions have enriched the law, and that's why it hurts me so much that they don't support themselves and that's why I can't understand it. What happens is that BNG talks a lot about demography, but it's pure posture, because it's not believing in demography to sign a document with the Government of the State to get to that government pact and once there's not a single line of demography; it's not believing in demography when this year's budgets are withdrawn from demography 100,000 euros in an amendment; nor is it believing in demography when it's voted against by the children's houses here, the most important conciliation resource in rural areas is absolutely free of charge and that it equates us with the services they have in cities. That's what the Galician Nationalist Block thinks of demography. Of course, PSOE cares so little that nine months have been empty the Commissioner's post for the demographic challenge. And two years after the strategy had to be approved, it turns out that the draft that they have has has neither marked nor targets, look! We have a draft that you don't even know what your goals are. That's the Socialist Party. But more serious than that is that the Galician Socialist Party is silent and today votes against the budgets of the Union when there is nothing quiet when the state budgets were the lowest of fifteen years ago or when AP-9 went up the fees. And it turns out that in this law, in the law that you will not vote, there is a reduction in taxes for many families. And besides, it's also collected in the budgets that you haven't approved today either. That's what the Socialist Party cares about the Greeks and the Greeks, when it turns out they don't care that they don't give us the money they owe us by the Dependency Act, or about the criteria they have to share the funds they have and not be absolutely discretionary, which always harm Galicia. So far, it's already about 500 million euros less than we were. That's what demographics care about, that's what young people care about, Mrs Ortega, the German PSOE, right? Well, look, you're still like this. We will continue to work, we will continue to make budgets as we have always done the Government of Nuñez Feijóo, with positive discrimination for rural people, for the provinces of Ourense and Lugo. And this law, that of demographic impulse, collects all the measures that are already in progress, such as the Welcome Card, from which 60,000 homes have benefited; or the little houses, which this year will be 100. You were talking about rural schools. But can you really say that without getting red? Who shut down more rural schools in Galicia than during the Bipartite? At 27 every year. Who set up a nesting house in Caurel Folgoso? The People's Party. In Navia de Surna? The People's Party. In each and every one of the municipalities of rural Galicia, the People's Party. [[Applause]] At least shut up and don't talk about things that really leave her in a very bad position. The network of children's schools has multiplied by two since the People's Party arrived in the Government and now we have 25,000. It was also the People's Party -- and I've already told you before -- what made the free childhood schools for the second and next. And besides, all the measures that have to do with housing, transport, zero taxes in rural areas, are measures that are in law. But it's a law, Mrs. Ortega, Mrs. Rodil, which is supposed to be moving towards a demographic policy of consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u53	...and long walk. It's a law that's not nobody's law, it's a law that's wide enough and open enough so that any government, when it comes, can apply it without having to give up its ideological principles, because demographic laws only make sense if they can be stable over time. They still have in their hands to join her or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u55	...on the contrary, turn their backs on the needs of the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Arias Rodríguez. [[The Social Policy Adviser asks for the floor.]] Yes, Social Policy Advisor? [[The Social Policy Counsellor speaks words which are not perceived.]] You have the right. Do you want to do it from the rostrum? [[Refusal.]] Whenever you want, social policy advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u57	President, ladies and gentlemen, very late. Today we are living at the end of a path and the beginning of another even longer and more hopeful. It ended three years of intense work to develop this law of demographic impulse. It was a process that has been marked since its inception by a marked vocation of dialogue and consensus. Three years in which Galicia, the whole of it -- the Government, social agents, experts, political parties and families -- worked tirelessly to achieve an open law and a participatory law, which involved society as a whole so that we all see our needs represented in it. This vocation of great agreement went on to base the law on the master lines approved by the Galego Observatory for Demographic Dynamics, and to assume more than 80% of the approaches proposed during the public exhibition process and also to transfer to the law the recommendations of the Economic and Social Council. That's why I want to thank you today for all the people who have read the law, participated in it and contributed to the improvement. The bet on a law that has been agreed on since its first steps translates into the fact that 44% of the articulate received no amendment in this Parliament, which I also appreciate. This vocation of great agreement to which I have just mentioned has also been extended during its proceedings in the House, because 36% of the amendments have been accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, today Galicia begins a new path as the first and only autonomous community at the national level that has a law of demographic impulse; a law that outlines demographic policies, that we have put in place -- all of them or many of them -- in recent years and that also reaches the legal coverage necessary for all these initiatives to be adopted in the coming years. Galicia now has a useful tool to cope with the biggest mortgage that weighs on the future of our land, an instrument that is designed to endure; and to endure not only in the coming legislation, but in the coming decades. This law has already aroused the interest of the highest authorities at European level. This very morning the President of the Galician Council had the opportunity to transfer his lines to the Vice President of the European Commission for Democracy and Demography, Dubravka Suica. Thanks to the Socialist Party, thanks to the Galician Nationalist Block and, of course, also to the Galician People's Party for this loyal work to achieve the greatest law of population impulse possible. Many of your arrivals are already present in this text that we shall be voting on today. I sincerely believe that our children and our grandchildren can be very proud of this law of demographic impulse, because we made it the Greeks of today always thinking about the Greeks of the morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u58	Thank you, Counselor. Debate taken into account of the Proposal for a Law of the People's Party of Galicia for the Recovery of Galician Land
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u59	The Galician Union remissed favourable approach. Mrs Candia speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u60	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you, President. This is a very intense day when we discussed matters of great transcendence, such as budgets, no doubt, the law of demographic challenge and believe that the initiative now to expose will also be an absolutely transcendental instrument for the Greeks and the Greeks. The relevance of the productive sectors of rural Galicia is unquestionable by the group I represent. Many have been employed in recent years by the Greeks, by the Greeks, but also by the Government of Galician Union. The agri-food sectors and the forest chain are close to 7% of GDP to the Greek economy -- it's a very relevant data -- and they create over 93,100 jobs. This is what brings these sectors into our community to our economy. Of the 53 Galician districts, 18 maintain a productive specialization in the primary sector. They are some sectors with present, ladies and gentlemen, but above all, some sectors with a lot of future. Just one fact that I consider appropriate to give here to contextualize: only in 2019 more than 1,000 winners benefited from more than 40 million euros, known as improvement plans. Many data refer to what I say is a work of everyone: our universally known wines, our cheeses, the first milk-producing region in Spain. I am speaking here today as a spokesperson for the Conseilerie du Medio Rural to defend a law that carries a motto, and so I want to highlight it at the beginning of my intervention: "recovery is by law." This phrase will act as an engine, and I understand that it says a lot of what this policy instrument is intended to bring in from the perspective of what it must be, and that we will be concretely and forcefully for these few 15 minutes. It's a very important day because all groups have to be positioned, since it's the day of their taking into consideration. We understand -- and here we hear it repeatedly in the previous debate -- that it must be a law of country and that it must achieve the greatest consensus, seeking always what unites us; of course, with the corresponding killings that we can understand and that must be introduced according to our political projects and also our ideologies. The strategic commitment to the recovery of abandoned land by its placing in value presents several key axes: the creation of economic activity in rural areas, a key factor in combating the demographic challenge; the mitigation and adaptation of climate change, in particular the prevention of forest fires, a major challenge for all; food security, through the protection of the productive capacity of the land and the promotion of its production; and the impulse of a landscape planning that enables the creation of resilient ecosystems with a proven ability to recover from disturbances such as major fires or severe phytosanitary risks. It aims not only to be an instrument to better address the demographic challenge, of course favouring the population settlement, but also to create a clear commitment for equal opportunities and to facilitate mobility and availability of land, creating conditions for the development of agricultural, livestock and forestry entrepreneurship initiatives. And it has a clear objective: to recover the land from our ancestors, and -- I insist -- "recover is law." I must point out that it is a law that is born of an important consensus. It is true that he is often not given the courage that I understand -- and that we, at least those we are here today, must defend -- the transcendence of parliamentary committees. We are the ones who must defend our work, and you know that this Parliament has created in 2018 -- here, in addition, we are accompanied by the advisor of the Rural Environment, whom I thank for the work and presence here today, and which undoubtedly had a very important role in its participation -- a commission in which they were able to agree -- and let me insist on it -- the two parties representing the three quarters of the Galician Parliament. All of them, those who were and those who follow them, we owe them the effort to continue to demonstrate the neighborhood that in transcendental matters, in structural matters -- and this is -- we are able to reach agreements. Why do I mean that commission? Because, in addition to dealing with a very serious problem, which is about forest fires, it has become full of issues that are now also regulated in this law. In fact, of the 123 recommendations that are set out in the Commission's statement, there are 22 specific references to land recovery, and there are more recommendations to be collected, up to a total of 43. I also want to remind you that the fact that 43 out of 123 are collected does not mean that other recommendations from which they were subject are not the subject of this law, but that they will be collected elsewhere, and, in fact, I quote the first revision of the Galician Forest Plan, where 92 out of 123 are collected. By the way, the review of the Forest Plan, which will also be discussed at parliamentary headquarters shortly in the search for that consensus, which we believe will be an important instrument for the next twenty years. Returning to the law, which is what we are dealing with here today, as I said, takes up 43 recommendations that have come from many visitors, representatives of civil society, etc. to a total of 63. It has already been born a law of everyone, of mayors of all ideologies, of representatives of universities, of different organizations...; ultimately, as I said, of all the civil society in Greece, who made their contributions and were collected in the dictation. But he also has important technical work. This reference -- the way we're going to get here today -- seems absolutely essential to me to remember the day of their taking into consideration, because the path is shown to be walking, and precisely on this subject has been a lot. It makes this clarification and taking into account that we are now in a parliamentary process, it must be said that it also starts with a call for the participation and presentation of approaches from all political groups, and I am particularly addressing those we believe in the Galician Parliament, I am one of them. Exactly by means of the amendments, we will be able to enrich this law; I understand that it will be much easier to make a document even improved. I am not going to go into any debate at the moment, if the procedure is appropriate, etc., I think I have tried in the best way possible to link this instrument to parliamentary activity, but I do want to go full of its contents in my remaining time. It's a law that has 144 articles, its corresponding additional provisions, and I'll focus on four of its fundamental principles: An absolute respect to private property. They won't find that guarantee for collection, basically supported through an institution that they know well, which is the Land Bank. Secondly, this tool provides a toolbox to increase the territorial base, keeping those that work. We all know what brought the partial mergers to our primary sector, but also creating new ones. Thirdly, it reinforces the role of the autonomous community, which recovers the power to investigate. Fourthly, it fights the abandonment, with instruments as important as the catalogues of uses. I started by saying it's about private property. We all know the value our ancestors gave him at the purchase to a blacksmith, and to them, precisely, we sent that message of tranquillity. It is an instrument that works with qualified majority, around 70%, but that in its processing will try to achieve the greatest possible consensus, at least that 70%, and works with instruments, as I recall, of guarantees for owners -- why not?-- so that all these farms -- that in some cases they don't know where they are or how much they measure -- become a supplement to our senior pension, with legal certainty. Tools to increase the territorial base. I think no one is discussing it, there's an important need for a territorial base on our farms. In fact, there is data that believe that grain holdings account for 57% of their total annual costs. I'm a primary sector defender, I tried to expose it in the first exhibition with data that clearly demonstrates a living primary sector. I know that this sometimes causes discrepancies, especially with BNG, to which I always remind you to reflect a Galician cow by the rope, which I see with annoyance. But I say it to add. Undoubtedly, this instrument is the door to all those areas, the municipalities, those districts where the primary sector is very strong. And they're instruments for further growth, continuing the execution of partial concentrations and increasing tools. The structure of our private property, characterized by an important minifundism, is also referenced with many objective data, as a great difficulty in the structure of the property that Galicia has: more than 11 million plots, being 6% of Spain's rustic territory, and we have 20% of the headlines, more than 1,700,000 landowners of rustics in Spain, with an average of 1.7 hectares per owner and seven plots; that is, each plot, about 2,500 square meters. In view of this indisputable structure, I think it is absolutely unnecessary to continue to focus on what we needed an instrument to increase the territorial base of our holdings. Thirdly, it said that the autonomous community recovers the power to investigate, another issue that undoubtedly seems very important to us. It's not a new prerogative. That faculty already existed in the administrations, but it belonged to the State administration, which, by the way, did not have the competence to value land. It has its logic and I think it was a great achievement that strengthens us as a country that, on the one hand, will regain the competence of research and then, later, we put it to produce, locate owners and document the land, and I insist on it too here because I think it is very important that the population in that private property not be confused. Even so, once all this work is done, the law regulates a period of five years, in which this research process will end, and if the owner appears, he can recover it, without going to the courts, since he can do it through the Galician Rural Development Agency, an entity, by the way, which is very strong with this normative instrument. Fourthly, the struggle against abandonment. Here, of course, it becomes a very useful tool to end this firefight. And in the fight against abandonment, let me value that instrument of the Catalogue of Uses, with the possibility of a partial realization. They live all three uses: the forest, the glove and the agricultural. The important thing is an orderly use, placing each one on its site and with technical criteria. And now at the end, in my time, I'm going to try and sketch those tools. On the one hand, and always remembering that it is a law that helps to grow up to those districts with a strong primary sector like those in which we try or will try to eradicate abandonment, in the case of areas of a living primary sector, the figure of the permutas, of main agricultural interest, seems to me to be an absolutely important figure that will allow the removal of enclaves around the facilities and gainful farms. They will no doubt agree with me that it is a great demand of our farmers and livestock. There are also private-owning polygons, which will allow the owners and farmers to reorder their holdings as well, reaching those very objectives of moving farms that are in the midst of their farms and which may be causing or being responsible even for pests. Then, the partial concentrations, the agroforestry polygons, the joint management groupings and the model villages are several of the tools that this law collects and regulates in its articulated. I mean the model villages. They're already more known and they're already a reality, in addition. The Middle Rural Council has been working on them for some time now. This year there are eleven villages in progress, and the biggest novelty is that they are expected to grow. But it's not only the creation of the model village itself, it's necessary to value what it means, and especially that creation of model village networks that will allow for a full recovery, but also that it acts within the village itself already in the architectural plane, above all to give value to the products that are generated there and, of course, to the possibility of laying down population in absolutely abandoned territories. I leave these two figures at the end, the agroforestry polygons and the joint management figure. We insist that in either case we need a qualified majority of 70%. And these are actions in which, if there is a significant role of the Galician Rural Development Agency and also of the Land Bank, we seek the participation of the private initiative, of entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, and always respecting the rights of the owners and respecting and protecting a mechanism regulated in Article 97, the control of the seizure. The fundamental differences between one and the other are that in one of them we simply order and we don't touch the frames, and what we're looking for is that the owner rents, that sells; ultimately, that the farm becomes producing, but always working with a minimum size, because what we're looking for is always sustainability. In the case of groupings, it is not even necessary, of course, that there are purchases, just the agreement of the majority of 70% to start managing it together. I end by moving them that the law also has promotion mechanisms, both from the general point of view, as it can be for pilot projects, as well as financial and fiscal, fighting for this positive fiscal discrimination in the primary sector, now that we hear a lot of things, especially the Socialist Party. I think it's time, in addition, to do work for the country and to invite the Central Government to help here, because here -- and I would also like to highlight this data -- since the German Government has already given an important example of zero taxes in rural areas. And I'm going to give you another data: only in 2019 a total of 22,340 Welsh and Welsh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u62	...have benefited from this measure. I would not like to finish this intervention if not how I started, saying that they contemplate this law with a country vision, that we separate what separates us and that we value what unites us, because everyone will surely agree with me that we have an obligation to our ancestors, no doubt, that is to regain our land. Ladies and gentlemen, recovery is by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Round of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Martín Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the People's Party presents to the House a supposed bill drafted by its group, but anyone who has some knowledge about the development of this law knows this is not so. You are currently using this legislative formula too often, bringing to the House bills from the People's Parliamentary Group that should be draft laws from the Government of Galicia. It is incomprehensible that they should do so by attempting to circumvent the procedure for public exposure, by short-terms and by avoiding the preliminary reports of the Economic and Social Council, the Agrarian Council, the Forest Council and the Legal Counsel of the Legislative Development Office. Furthermore, it is known to everyone that this proposal or this bill, which has already been submitted by this adviser on several occasions, since the end of 2018, counts on the work of external consultants and the work of university teachers, in addition to following a few dozen recommendations adopted by consensus, as the spokesperson of the People's Party, the People's Party and the Socialist Party in the Parliamentary Commission on the 2017 fires, something which was also put up to the President of the Council of Galicia before the media. I would say that it is a failure of absolute respect to this House, to all the groups that we participate in this committee and to the experts who have participated in the drafting of this law that transfer it to the House as if it were a work of a particular parliamentary group. And I don't want to say what it seems to me anymore, as it seems true, that there are external consulting jobs paid by all the citizens of Greece that, instead of serving to put on the table a government bill that represents us all of the Greeks, be used by a determined political party as if they were something of their own. [[Applause]] That's something that seems ethically reprobable and legally difficult to concoct, and much more to listen to as we hear in this House for a moment the spokeswoman of the People's Party to speak and say here that she is the voicer of the Rural Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have a problem knowing that it's legislative power, executive power and judicial power, and they really should know how to differentiate one thing from another. Besides, in a law where we should guarantee legal certainty, it's terrible that they try to avoid reports from previously announced entities. For all this, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have already asked the Counsellor -- that we often do not know whether he acts as a Government adviser or as a member of the parliamentary group -- that he has withdrawn the bill to present it as a bill; a request that, as we can see today, has not been very successful, but that we continue to launch the Counsellor. Introduce him by the way he has to present him to a legitimate government like his own, present him as a bill. Taking this bill into consideration, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is necessary to remember before. Where are those criticisms they used to overthrow the Bipartisan Government, gentlemen of the People's Party? A few days from the 2009 election, they shared a pamphlet that said, "Do you want to run out of your farms? If BNG and PSOE governs, they can take your land and give it to others with the excuse that you don't work it out. The PSOE and the BNG wanted to stay with your lands, they said in their parcels; an argument that you... yes, Mr. Balsairo, you would probably share them too. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] An argument that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, used to oppose the Land Bank Act and poison our rural population in search of votes, considering the Bipartite legislation as a policy of the Soviet Union and saying that it intended to confiscate the land and nationalize it. [[Applause]] What would you say to yourself, Mr. Balsairo -- with his usual voracity and lack of sense of country when they are in opposition -- if today the consideration of this bill was presented by any of the opposition parties? They would talk about Bolshevik hordes with horns and tails that would attempt to confiscate the properties of the Greeks and the Greeks. What a sudden attack on freedoms turns into a struggle against the abandonment of lands just because you rule, that's the only difference! [[Applause]] The reality is that Galicia has a serious problem of abandonment of land land and that during the twelve years of government of Nuñez Feijóo, despite advertisements and advertising -- that gives them very good -- and of calling legislatures like "the legislation of rural", abandonment grew and were twelve years lost. They'll soon serve laws as they bring into consideration today if they continue to remove services in our rural areas, with increasingly precarious education and health -- as my shipmate Marina had previously defined -- and with less social services and attention to our elders. As they bring this law these days, we can observe what's going on with school transportation in the Courel, as my companion once said. Why mobilize lands if there are no citizens left to work on them, gentlemen of the People's Party? [[Applause]] Galicia has lost over 250,000 hectares of useful agricultural land; more than 37,000 agricultural holdings have been abandoned in the first decade of this century. In our country we have a useful agricultural area that barely exceeds 20% of the territory, one of the lowest percentages in Europe, since in Germany or France it exceeds 40%. This percentage is, in addition, the future of our rural and our agricultural and livestock activities, in addition to causing problems in the distribution of funds from the common agricultural policy. In Galicia there are already more than 2,000 abandoned nuclei, more than 10,000 villages with less than 10 neighbours -- one third of which has all Galicia -- and 1 out of every 3 municipalities in our country is walking towards disappearance, and you're talking about five model villages. So, from our parliamentary group, we understand that it is necessary to put in place mechanisms and instruments to mobilize agricultural land and to fight against abandonment, but, by many laws that we write, we are hardly going to achieve anything without the necessary budgetary commitment that needs to be put into operation. So, from the Socialist Group, we miss this proposal of law a budget accompaniment that makes it credible because, for example, it is very good that there are partial mergers and that it is regulated by its application, but it is hardly worth anything this instrument without the political decision and the funding needed to carry it out. And I'm saying this because today we continue with the paralysed partial mergers, with many parishes and places in our municipalities that continue to wait for the possibility that they will take place, and it's hard to understand the advertising and the candy and plate that make this new law and the advertising of model villages, if they then paralyze and abandon the partial mergers for many years. [[Applause]] We recently read to the mayor of Friol a very eloquent article about what happened in the Rural Council -- I guess the counselor didn't like it -- and he said, "I can't help but refer to the most sold product as a catalyst that will solve all the problems in rural areas -- the famous model villages. The cost will be too high. The Italian rural doesn't need tests that later they don't know how to maintain, inventing incongruent methods. It seems that the technocrats of this council have not taken account of the fact that the weeds are rising again so that in a short period of time we will find these areas in the same situation as before, due to the lack of agricultural activity, since they are disadvantaged areas which are not able to implement any kind of agricultural activity." And he kept going. That's what one of your mayors, Counselor and Voicer, besides your province, is curiously saying about what you are president. We share with him that the field is not for experiments and windows like the Gaiás de Sergude, who consumes millions of this budget, when they are needed to act, precisely, in that recovery of agricultural activity. We can write laws, but another thing is that the content of those laws will soon come to light. And I'm sorry to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that your credibility in this sense is minimal and that from the Socialist Group we will believe something like St Thomas when we see with our eyes and put our fingers in the chaga. Our faith in the People's Party and its announcements, with no further content, is absolutely null. [[Applause]] A scientific study was previously made public that warned Lugo, La Coruña and Ourense would suffer in this decade, from 2020 to 2030, the largest absolute and relative abandonment of agricultural land, the only three provinces in Spain threatened by the abandonment of more than 30% of their agricultural area used, with Place the most affected province throughout the state, with nearly 80,000 hectares of abandoned land, followed by the Coruña and Ourense. The four Greek provinces are among the five most affected in terms of abandonment of the total agricultural area used, led by Lugo, with 44 %, followed by the Coruña, with almost 42 %, Ourense, with 30 %, fourthly Guipúscoa, with 20 % and the fifth was Pontevedra, with almost 26 %. In the case of Galicia, there are different circumstances for the high risk and abandonment rates, due to its mountainous topography, its peripheral position, the predominance of small-scale family farms, the fragmentation of property, the difficult mechanization, the risk of forest fires, the intensification of agriculture and its declaration as a disadvantaged area in the Council Directive of the European Union. They speak of unfavourable socio-economic factors and agricultural structure as important causes of abandonment and increased risk of agricultural abandonment in many areas of Coruña, Lugo and Ourense. According to the data published by the Ministry of Agriculture itself, the agricultural land fell into the territory of Greece about 8,000 hectares in 2019, up to a total of 310,000 hectares. From our group we present our amendments and the issues that we see that improve this law, in a mobilization of necessary lands, with the creation of figures that many of them have been collected even in our electoral program and which should help improve the activity of our rural, as long as they are betted by it and not only on wet paper. But we would ask the adviser to do everything possible to withdraw this bill and to present it as a draft law of the Galician Union, which is the Government of all the Greeks, who voted for it, and thus would continue, in addition, all the necessary procedures for a law of this importance. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u65	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Rivas Cruz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Galician "goose by the rope" was in this pamphlet, and above all in this sentence: "You can take your land and give it to others, with the excuse that you don't work it." This has a mic; it has a mic, and it's the result of an entire psychological and sociological study in our country. [[Mr. Rivas Cruz shows a pamphlet.]] Ladies and gentlemen, by presenting this bill in this way and not a bill, the PP shows the measure of the value that gives it to the subject and its real commitment to the rural environment -- outside of, of course, propaganda -- because if this text lets you see that a diagnosis has been made of the deplorable state of the rural environment, that this is nothing positive and that approaches the theses that since the BNG we have been here for a long time, we do not understand that it is present so and that it is not a law of the Government with all the eximportant weight. In addition to the diagnosis that the current situation of rural in general can be done and that this past week, it seems, we share -- better said, they start sharing with us, which is not the same, and it will be true -- the melody sounds pleasantly, known, but the harmonisation of the score may not be possible. The orchestra plays with his ear and plays with evil, very bad. I'd like to know what kind of pocima they take in order to keep the guy and with a smile, suddenly, publicly affirm that the rural of this country is broken in abandonment and that it needs a law that rekindles him. You must be very powerful! It could be worth up to the coronavirus! And precisely for this, because of this sudden shift of position -- suspicious of all lights, if it wasn't an excuse, a smoke curtain -- if it was sincere, you should have done a public awareness test -- we would call it self-criticism, ask for forgiveness and resign with the whole Government. Yes, resign because they're responsible. They are responsible for: A) From policies prior to 2005, which gave rise to the state of deterioration in which the primary sector was made when the BNG acceded to the Government. B)They're guilty of the political garbage they've generated to shock the process of regeneration of the Welsh field initiated by the BNG with laws such as that of the Land Bank. C) They are guilty of the last twelve years of indolence, abandonment of functions and propitiating and feeding the calamitous state in which we find ourselves; of serving masters who only seek their own profit and not general well-being. Having come here, I should say at least half the exabrusts Mr. Castro gave us in 2007. They remember that of the Christmas balls, that of the Bolshevism, that of the expropriations, or that of the spiral reasoning when I wasn't able to understand that of the mobility of lands and said that barbarity that put it in the mental weakness of what it made gala: "You can understand perfectly what I'm saying when, for example, you imagine an unused land in Monterrey that could be transferred to the Ribeiro. Of course, if they were 500 euros bills, probably, but that land of Monterrey can only leave Monterrey, of course." Poverty, intellectual misery! And I'm not going to follow this line, because, beyond the licit revenge for the damage inflicted on valuable, intelligent people delivered to the service of rural life and their regeneration, the interests of the men and women of this "blessed" nation are for Greek nationalism. How many thousands of farms have you closed since 2009 for your political misrepresentation, PP gentlemen? [[Applause]] And don't amend! They believe that a strong dose of propaganda can mask true intentions, because you don't want a law at the height of the country, its people and its needs. No, this law is part of the parcel of delivery and sale of the territory to the businesses of multinationals and economic powers, against the interests of Galician society, gives in full right these resources for sale. What brings us here today is a whole piece of the Law of Predation Bis, the Law of Land Management, the Law of Economic Reactivation, the Wind Plan, tractor projects... with all that that makes up the project of a country for sale that PP has. You can believe that this is the case when you present this proposal of law with secrecy, nocturnalness, shame and the least appropriate procedure. You don't want to give him the rank of law, and present this book to us without having to go through the Economic and Social Council, as it has already been said, or through the Consultative Council, and above all by stealing the proper debate from Galician society. Even though it was only out of respect that all groups of this House owe to the people of Galicia, we deserved a bill of government, a bill accords with the importance of the subject, made by a government that believes in the need of this law. It would accompany the text with a diagnosis of the situation of which one leaves, with an economic and organisational memory, with medium and long-term objectives, with or with a number of intermediate revisions of results obtained and with the giving of accounts to this Parliament. And all this preceded by the social and sectoral debates that the issue and our common country deserve. When the processing of a law, Mrs. Candia, is downloaded into a parliamentary group, it is a sign that the text is more thought for the gallery than with a real interest in changing things and having effectiveness. We'll open our eyes later. Ladies and gentlemen, we must remember that Law 7/2007, of May -- of the BNG -- was born with the title "Conservation of the useful agricultural area and of the Galician Land Bank." To this text presented to us today, after twelve years of indolence and abandonment, they call it "recovery of Galician agrarian land". So the goal was to "keep," and twelve years later we have to talk about "recover." Go, go! Because in this indolent path, 150,000, 200,000, 250,000 were lost... how many thousands more acres of land, now covered by mortar, or what is worse, by ash, by the bubble of fire? This proposed law marks as an objective to promote the productive recovery of Galician agroforestry lands, and I saw the difference, because in our law the objective was the soil of agricultural protection, the land of high agricultural and livestock production, and therefore the public initiative would be directed above all to the protection, conservation and recovery of the land with a agribusiness destination. Not only were recovery and laying in production of abandoned uncultivated land. It was about the preferred dedication of more fertile soils and skill for agricultural and livestock production -- and here we come to the bottom of the question -- to curb the expansion of forest use in rustic land that should be destined for agricultural uses given its highest productivity and aptitude. It is interesting that in the 174 pages of this proposal for a law that wants to deal with nothing, it is said to reverse the situation of the land of agricultural vocation and which is currently occupied by forest plantations. The subject has a tail, because it makes it clear that priority is not being focused on the useful agricultural surface, on the recovery and placing in value of land for agricultural and livestock production, but rather on the recovery of rustic land to favor all productions, also forest. That's the ass, so bring it here, no social debate, no noise, just with widespread propaganda. It's a lot of what's at stake for what you represent and for what we stand for. The PP is willing to forest us, to put eucalyptus and pine trees up in the gardens of the houses, to the pots. The PP fed a monster and now the monster sets the conditions. And since the oven is not for cakes, and society is beginning to question both eucalyptus and import of food, so much environmental aggression, they need a law that justifies the costumer. And so they go, putting a model village here and another one over there to conceal and tell what they're going to do and what's going to happen. By the way, has anyone seen any budget forecasting, any forecast of support from the comarcas agricultural offices? - Go away from what's left of them! --. Does anyone know anything about the number of hectares that will be recovered in the first biennium? Be sensible, do things as God commands. If that's what I'm saying, it's not -- as we say -- prove it. Open the debate to society. Let's make this law the principle of an integral plan for the dynamisation and recovery of rural areas. The debate on society, the presentation can do it. Come on, get us together! We're convinced that your intentions are honest, that they don't hide anything strange! These would be the conditions; these are the conditions that BNG sets them up so we can feel serious. There they go!(a)a study of the situation of departure, diagnosis; (b) elaboration of an organisational economic memory which includes budgetary, technical and human resources; (c)priorization of the useful agricultural area; (d) in the processing of social participation -- can be called experts, representatives, organizations and entities in the sector to the submission -- ; (e) halting the forestry of potentially agricultural land; (f) establishment and fulfilment of basic objectives of an annual nature -- for example, the number of hectares to be recovered -- (g) intermediate review of the results obtained and giving of accounts to Parliament. If so, we'll be willing to give you a consensus law. If not, we don't swallow cats for hare. I'm sorry to say that, with this accuracy, but with this serenity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u67	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Replica turn. For the author group of the bill, Mrs. Candia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u68	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Looks like the problem is the way. First of all, I want to urge you to explain to the agricultural organizations that this week takes you to the Agrarian Council and that next week you will go to the Forest Council. Well, you know, sometimes, when we stop a lot in shape, it's that maybe we don't have much to say from the bottom. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Seco, it's true that with the microphone it's more difficult to understand with you, but of course, as a voicer in the middle of the countryside -- shade, punctuation and at the same time I apologize -- it's a challenge I'm not going to give up. Unquestionably, you have no faith in the People's Party and even say it proudly, but we are here today because whoever has faith in us are the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] You match the instrument. In fact, half seemed to feel a little offended because we were heritageizing the idea that it was everyone's. If this is the case -- I also insist --, born of that commission, it comes from a great consensus of what, of course, all the colleagues -- those who are no longer and those who now have this responsibility -- we feel proud and want to refer and, if possible, improve. But, look, do you really think it's not worth trying? Do you really think it is not worth adopting an instrument that respects private property, which provides tools to increase the territorial base of our farms, which strengthens the capacities of our autonomous community, which fights abandonment? Do you really think it's not now, at a time when our society is going through it so badly? Would you at some point think of the conclusion that you could pull out some gale or gale that was listening to this intervention, and we had to go back there by 2008 or 2009? I recognize that going through the opposition is quite wrong, and the sooner it gets over and if it works in a positive way -- I also recommend it and I say it from experience -- more possibilities will have to be able to reach the Government. In this way, of course, bringing a pamphlet at an economic moment... ladies and gentlemen, society and our economy are not for their jokes, Mrs. Rodil. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We are at a very difficult economic moment and, of course, we deserve the greatest respect, the greatest responsibility and the greatest rigour. And today I invite you, at least, not to vote against; to support you to start taking into consideration a brave instrument, a necessary instrument, a consensual instrument in which many people don't undervalue anyone. [[Murmurs.]] Technicians, mayors, deputies of all political forces have made their contributions -- and here they contextualize it at a very specific time -- but they will be able to continue doing them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are defending a living primary sector. Galicia can't understand without our villages. I insisted very much on private property, because I was born in a place where the neighbors and the family were saving pesetas -- then -- in order to buy a ferret, and that must be respected. This law will undoubtedly be a guarantee. But you don't just have to respect it, you have to put it in value so it can be a complement -- as it said -- of your pension. More than ever society demands understanding. More than ever the primary sector, which remains one of the best, supports and survives this important crisis. I've said on a number of occasions that even a lot of people in the cities are looking enviously at our rurals for quality of life and work opportunities in the livestock sector, in the agricultural sector and also in the forest -- Mr. Rivas, I'm telling you, coming from the Navy district, also in the forest --. [[Murmurs.]] With respect and, of course, with affection too -- because I think it's a historical moment -- I invite you to add and build. They won't do the People's Party a favor, which will undoubtedly try to manage it in the best way possible. But believe me, the truly benefited will be the Greeks and the Greeks, precisely those of the rural environment that you have so many quoted here in the previous interventions. Today they have an opportunity here and now and in the coming days to prove it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Candia. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u70	After the debate on the legislative texts has been closed, we shall proceed to the vote. We begin by voting on the amendments to the Ditame issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. We started by voting together on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on the draft law on tax and administrative measures (amendments 1 to 4, 7 to 15, 17, 20, 22 to 40 and 42 to 44) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Joint vote on the amendments by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditam, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the Bill of Tax and Administrative Measures (amendments Nos. 1 to 12) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. And now we are voting on the agreement, which has already been expressed here and in the parliamentary debate, which is the amendment to Article 31.3 of this bill, which amends Article 35b) of Law 14/2013 of 26 December 2013 on the rationalization of the public sector consisting of adding two points to Act Nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 and 10, respectively, which become paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 10 and 11. Voting of the formally agreed amendment to Article 31.3 of the Ditame, issued by Commission 3a, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 75. The voting is positive. This formal amendment is therefore adopted unanimously. And now we are voting on the Commission's ruling with the incorporation of the amendment that has just been adopted. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law on tax and administrative measures, with the formal amendment agreed. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This decision is therefore approved with the formal amendment added. We are now voting on the amendments to the Ditame, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law on demographic impulse in Galicia. First of all, the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group are jointly amended. Joint vote on the amendments of the Socialist Group of Galician Socialists to Ditam, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law on the demographic impulse of Galicia (amendments Nos. 1 to 3, 6, 8, 10 to 12, 16 to 25, 28 to 43, 45 to 49, 53, 55, 56, 58, 61, 62, 65, 66, 68, 69, 72, 75, 78, 79, 82 to 88, 92 to 94, and 99 to 102.) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Joint vote of G.P.'s amendments to the Galego Nationalist Bloc to Ditame, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law of demographic impulse of Galicia (amendments Nos. 1 to 7, 10 to 16, 19, 20, 22, 24 to 30, 32 to 36, 39 to 43, 44 to 51, 53 to 56, 59 to 68, 72 to 80.) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. And we voted for the Commission's ruling. Ditame's vote, issued by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on Galicia's draft demographic impulse law. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved. We are now voting on the proposal for a law from the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia on land recovery. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the People's G.P. of Galicia, of the recovery of the land of Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 19; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. Therefore, this bill is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u71	Here the votes have been finished and we continue, as already mentioned, with the third item on the agenda, which is the motions in this case. Motion by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Daniel Castro García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the percentages of expansion of the long band
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u72	No amendments were tabled. You have the floor, for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castro García. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today we bring this motion that at the BNG we believe is of vital importance to our country -- we were already talking about this in the interpellation of a month ago --. And we think of this, above all, for two reasons mainly. The first is that, once and for all, it is necessary for the Galician Union to push a major digitisation plan across the country, especially in our rural areas and, in addition, in the earlier years. Hurry up. We all know that we are the last or penultimate in absolutely all the rankings and classifications of the territory of the Spanish State. But I'm not going to repeat them today, because we've known them all perfectly, and we've been talking about them for months. This has to end, because Galicia needs an ambitious plan urgently. It's a lot of slowness this government's practice of rural digitization policies and we've been lost on this subject for many years. We've been lost for many years in many plans, which are already three -- we'll wait to see the third -- and none of them have achieved the desired results at all -- and unfortunately, the truth --. The result of this is not just numbers, they're not just classifications, they're rankings where we're worse than the rest. The result of this is not these inert classifications. They've got faces. The result is that the Greeks and the Greeks cannot develop their work, their studies or part of their leisure in the same way that other citizens and citizens of the rest of the Spanish state do, because of the simple fact that they live in Galicia. That's where the problem is, because the broadband deficits, digital literacy, coverage or digitization in our rural areas have faces, and they are those of the workers and workers who cannot telework because they have no connection; they are the students who cannot attend virtual classes -- or virtual exams, to get to it -- because they have no connection; they are the farmers and peasants who can't adapt their work to the 21st century because they don't count on the technologies to do it. These data have faces, that's what I meant. All this pays for our country, and this means that it is paid by the Greeks and the Greeks. The second reason we believe, moreover, is quite obvious. After months in which we've been working or studying also at a distance -- and, above all, of the months that unfortunately can still remain -- the need for implementation of this kind of policy becomes even more obvious. I ask you, Members and Members of the People's Party: how will you telework a worker if you have no connection to it? Or how will you, for example, study a student, or how will you attend virtual classes, if you have no connection to do so? It's impossible. With these questions what I want to point out is that, for many Germans and Greeks, it is impossible to carry out the recommendations or obligations that the Union itself does, because it doesn't count on the means to do so. Besides, they don't have the idea that this happens only in the most remote corners of our country. No, not at all. We have cases that occur in places of the municipal terms of the seven cities of Galicia, and this also occurs in many places of municipalities that also match the provincial capitals or other cities such as, for example, Santiago de Compostela, such as, for example, Vigo or, for example, Lugo. That's why and for many other reasons they have to understand the seriousness of the situation, and that's why we ask Junta for a country position to support this initiative and to skip the broadband connection to the entire country as quickly as possible; leading technology to all the population with the increase, for example, of CeMIT classes; having a strong country position in the European Union funds for digitisation, or pushing other mechanisms to bring the connection to rural life. It can be done, especially knowing it's necessary. We also need to focus our efforts on training plans in digital skills. Explain. The problem of many Greeks and Greeks has become double. On the one hand, they don't have the means to use technologies and, on the other hand, they don't have the knowledge to do it if they get to have them. That's why we have to get to a greater digital literacy -- that is, to train people to be able to adapt to the world that comes or is, in many cases, to the world that is already here. Because this pandemic has again shown that we have been very limping about the use and knowledge of technologies. It's also normal, because in many cases we could never use them. And, of course, this means that our society cannot, in many cases, use the technologies necessary for the day-to-day life in full 2021. In addition to all this, today too, we've been talking -- just recently -- about the need for population impulse policies. So here's another example of demographic policy. If we guarantee the same right of access to rural technology as in the city, we are facilitating the settlement of rural population. Because in the end everything goes the same way, it's all going to be politics to prevent the fact of living in the countryside instead of in a city from marking your living conditions. Against this you can fight, it's not a utopia. And we have examples all over Europe. We can take rural digitisation plans to have a smart rural, because in addition to that, many European states are doing very good results and, above all, very immediate results. The examples of rural areas such as Lapland, Finland, or Rhineland, in Germany, account for this. That's what's called smart countries. It's a reality and, above all, a need our country has to come to. You know, in addition, that a connected rural is a rural that detects fires faster and, of course, extinguishes them in a faster way; a connected rural is what it has access, with forecasts, to all atmospheric variations and which therefore has better crops; a connected rural is what controls its livestock and optimizes its results; a connected rural is what controls its water uptakes and what has real-time data from its sanitation, and thus a very long and so forth. So -- and, as you see, with a very friendly tone -- I ask you to leave those excuses that we are an aging people, that we have a lot of dispersion in the population, which is obviously true, but we have already commented here many times that these are and have been the population characteristics of Galicia for a long time. And, of course, a good government is the one who rules for the realities of his country. So -- we've already said it here, too -- in politics you can be right or wrong, but if you don't consider what I just said before, the result is more than clear. I think today we can reach a rather important agreement and that is why I want to encourage you to start working for this country by supporting this initiative, because the Greeks and the Greeks will be winning. No more, and because my voice is a little upset -- I don't know why -- we wait for your positive vote and we'll keep talking now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u74	Thank you, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u75	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The coronovirus pandemic has led the authorities to restrict the movement of people and promote confinement in the home. This has led to the digital divide between cities -- with fiber optics and high-speed wireless networks in homes -- and villages -- where the Internet speed is low or does not exist --. Telework, online education or videoconferencing have recently become indispensable in our lives. In Galicia, 13.2% of the population, more than 357,000 people, can barely access a speed of two megas. In our autonomous community there are municipalities of 50,000 inhabitants with conventional networks -- not fiber -- that have a transmission of not more than thirty megas, a low speed according to current requirements. With this data, we have to say that the 2020 Long Band Plan, adopted in 2015 at the Joint Council, failed to meet the goals set by the Digital Agenda for Europe to ensure a broadband coverage of at least 30 megas for the entire population and to boost recruitment in broadband homes of more than 100 megas. Our group has already taken this issue to Commission 6a a few months ago. This health crisis therefore makes it clear that this plan did not meet its objectives and that Galicia needs to push another much more ambitious long-band plan. The loss and ageing of the population, the shortage of basic goods and services, the socio-economic decline, the abandonment of primary sectors, the difficulties of accessibility or lack of investment are some of the urgent problems facing the Italian countryside. It's been debated here today, a moment ago, about the depopulation of rural areas. Without a doubt, the challenge of transforming this trend and providing solutions to the whole constellation of rural municipalities that make up Galicia is complex and requires large doses of innovation, planning, cooperation and, above all, political will. The European Smart Rural 21 project aims to promote smart strategies and solutions to problems facing empty Europe. Even though this project has been developing long before the coronovirus pandemic occurs, the fact is that the health crisis in which we are immersed has focused attention on rural environments. The post-covid-19 horizon can provide a window of opportunity both for the recovery of rural areas and for rethinking the urban-territorial model from a new sustainable, healthy and community perspective. The European Smart Rural project aims to develop and apply smart approaches and strategies. This year, the European Smart Rural project has been called up for five Greek candidatures -- 200 and 5 throughout Spain --. Let's hope that in the upcoming Galicia calls, it has more applications, as it's a good tool to recover the countryside from our land. The rural areas of Galicia suffer from depopulation, as we have seen today saying in several interventions. Information technologies are becoming more and more rapidly developed. Supported by these advances, many experts recommend the use of teleworking as a way to shorten rural depopulation, especially among the newer and more qualified population -- precisely the population sector most affected by socioeconomic tissue --. This health crisis therefore makes clear the need to urgently push the long band in our territory, mainly in rural Galicia. By putting some examples of Galician sites where Internet access is bad or not, is Gondomar, The Bath, Pattern, Brión, Aguiño -- in Ribeira --, Castroverde, The Foundry, Pedraphyta, Seixalbo -- in Ourense --, etc. There's a lot of land without a long strip and there's a lot to be done. I have already preached what the honourable Member will say since the parliamentary group: that the orography and the dispersion of the population are responsible for the failure of the large band to reach rural areas. No, the only one to blame that the broadband doesn't get to rural is Galician Union, no more or less. It's Galician Union! [[Applause]] They'll also say that the blame lies with Pedro Sánchez's government. Because it doesn't matter what we touch, which is Pedro Sanchez's fault. But here this argument won't serve them, because, look, do you know what the autonomous community in all of Spain has received more help for broadband coverage in 2018? Galicia! Galicia was the most helpful community you've ever received, with 25.33 million in number. Do you know which autonomous community has received the most help in 2019? Well, it was the Greek community, with over 25 million in help. Stop blaming others and get to work! Stop blaming others! [[Applause]] An option to technologically form all Galicians and all galleys are the CeMIT classes. So it is true that the Galician Union should increase the number of classes so that it can reach the entire population of our community. And providing them with more features would also be a good initiative, especially in rural areas, of what we've been talking about today. Digitization is undoubtedly one of the most urgent challenges facing Galicia right now, because of the importance of data in all areas of economic and social activities. The struggle for systematization, control and data management is one of the greatest challenges today. Digitization should be one of its political priorities for the Galician Union during this legislation, and it should aim to achieve a Galician adapted to the digital age by empowering people for the new generation of technologies. The self-government of the People's Party would have to aim to catalyze a digital transformation that drives employment, industry development and economic revitalization. Digital transformation is a basic pear for increasing productivity and generating greater value added. In order to achieve this, the autonomous executive should focus on the transformation of pemes and family businesses and, above all, on the transformation of the proximity trade. I'd have to bet to get everyone! Galician polygons had access, at least, to the 100 mega network, and actively promoted that they all had a plurality of Internet service providers. You should make an accelerated deployment of the 5G network in order to provide high-speed connectivity to rural areas, because there are many territories of our community without connectivity or with low-speed connectivity. It should implement a powerful 4.0 industry strategy for agriculture, fisheries and industry. Our autonomous community would have to move towards the digitization of the tourism sector by implementing a more effective plan of smart tourist destinations. Here I would like to say something that I heard tomorrow talking to a person who has rural homes, who is the president of the Rural Tourism Federation: "We need to scan rural tourism. But how are we going to scan rural tourism if we don't have the Internet! Please tell Junta! How do we scan rural tourism?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh [[Applause]] That's an example. It is important to highlight the role of digitization and digital transformation in changing education. We have to end the digital divide between the Galician schoolchildren. With the pandemic we are living in, there is evidence of the great work that remains to be done in our community so that digitization reaches all society and all territory. Let's hope Mr. Feijóo's announcement last week -- which announced that digital education will reach 100,000 students in two years -- is a reality and not just an ad, like the ones he's used to. Ads, ads and more ads! As you can see, the Galician Union has a very, very, very much to do with digitization in our autonomous community. That's why the Socialist Parliamentary Group calls on the autonomous Government to make a greater budgetary effort to achieve the digitization of all Galicia. And when I say "from across Galicia", I also say from the countryside. I'm done. The experts are warning that regions facing this crisis with an initial position characterized by low productivity, reduced R & D+i spending both in the public sector and in the business sector, insufficient implementation of digitisation or deficiencies in the labour market will present serious weaknesses in laying the foundations for a sound economic recovery, a major warning, gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much all and all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u76	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pérez López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u77	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Castro, both you and Mrs. Gallego have to tell me that I'm surprised at that double speech they practice when they talk about technological improvements and connectivity in our country. Though Mr. Castro spoke little today, he spoke enough. On the one hand, they want to convince us of their good heel and that they're trying to bring to this hall full constructive initiatives -- sometimes, everything has to be said, a bit of an extemporaneous -- but, on the other hand, in their analysis and in their speech they talk about years lost to end by insinuating as long as we've been 11 years of fallen arms. And it's not true. Mrs. Gallego, you missed the truth today. You have failed the truth and I'm not going to talk to you about guilt, I'm going to tell you about competences, which are different things, Mrs. Gallego. Of course there's a lot of work to do, I won't deny it today. Much work remains to be done in this matter. And the concern that you have is fully shared by this government, by a government that, in addition to worrying, acts, Mrs. Gallego; a government that puts on the table solutions to the eaves that remain to be corrected, because you know the potential of a well-connected territory to achieve the challenge of our country's economic reactivation, which is what it touches at the moment. With complete certainty, we agreed with the three groups that in recent months the need for citizenship to have digital skills and skills has been expressed. So to that extent, in order to continue to promote these competences, the Galician Union will put in place this year the new Greek framework of digital competences. In addition, 10.4 million euros will be invested in including and digital training; 6.4 million for digital inclusion actions -- and of these 6.4 million, 3 million will focus on reconfiguration of the CeMIT classes, which you bring today's debate --. There is therefore a project in progress, and you certainly arrive late with your demands. They always come after the initiatives of this government. Look, the CeMIT classes went on in 2011 -- by the way, with a government of the People's Party --. Before this date there was nothing in Galicia. They are already present at this time in ninety-two municipalities of the fifty-three districts of our community. Today we have 98 fully equipped classes, and this year we will start the process of reconfiguration and adaptation to new demands. But besides, I'm talking about projects attached to the reality of Galician territory. As knowledgeers of the importance of rural life, they know that every Greek has less than thirty minutes of their home a CeMIT class to make use of ICT tools. 88% of the classes are in municipalities of less than 30,000 inhabitants; and 30%, in municipalities of less than 5,000. The CeMIT network is also part of Galicia's digital inclusion plan. And, in addition, to ensure the dynamisation of classes -- which you are concerned about -- the second grant to the collaboration agreement for the management of the grant has just been signed, with an amount of EUR 813,000; an allowance that will allow local entities to dynamize classes with training activities funded by the support of the Galician Union. They look at a very easy data to give them: in five years they invested more than 5 million euros in the CeMIT classes, with more than 420,000 hours of training to improve their digital skills and thus increase their quality of life, employability and social inclusion. We're talking about investment and work, about work that made Galicia have a great breakthrough in digital society. And that's why I can't share -- we can't share -- that negative story that you do whenever you have the opportunity to talk from this rostrum. So since the People's Party, the message we want to move is very clear. They don't doubt that we will continue to bet on the CeMIT network, but not only by increasing classes when necessary -- as you say -- but by doing the fundamental right now: by reconfiguration of existing ones and continuing to adapt to new demands and continue to be technology reference centers for those who attend training, advising or accessing equipment. They won't have to convince us about the goodness of the best-functioning endowments or take advantage of these facilities as telework spaces. In fact, it seems like a lie that they don't know about the open classroom service, a space to which, simply by being discharged as a user of the CeMIT network, citizens can freely and freely access and rely on the advice of ICT managers. I'm going to give you one more data on functionality, Mr. Castro, because I think we live in different countries. The result of understanding between Junta, Fegamp and universities, this year the connectivity service was offered to perform the university exams -- you mentioned this a moment ago --. It's a gift from which we feel especially satisfied and who has had an extraordinary welcome. Any German student, Mr. Castro, could take his exams with the convenience of having a classroom less than thirty minutes from his home or home, thus avoiding attending university. This has two readings for you. On the one hand, the anticipation of the Greek Government, which was able to adapt to the needs and demands arising at the moment and, on the other hand, the advance in the provision of quality services to the neighbours and neighbors. With regard to the Smart Rural Plans, which they also mentioned, I am again obliged to tell them that they are being abandoned. If you take a look at the 2020-2030 Galician Strategy -- with just one look at it -- you'd see that it's abundant in rural care and in the modernization of the primary sector. I invite you to read it. Already in this 2021 we can highlight four projects that use this type of technology: the Agro 4.0, the expansion of the Forest Video Watch Network, the Forest Owner's Portal and the evolution of the Xesbius platform. And we'll go on, have it for sure. They also bring the debate, again, the extension of the broadband. I'm not going to repeat it, because I know that you know -- even though you don't like to recognize it -- the effort made by this administration, the heavy work done by the Board in previous years that has led us to be -- although you don't like it -- from the first regions to national and European levels that have driven the deployment of new generation networks. But even though we've already debated it, what if I'm going to reiterate it -- because it seems to me essential in this co-governance context of what we're talking about and what we're talking about in recent times all of us -- is that competition in telecommunications is central government, Mrs. Gallego. They're not excuses, it's competition. They're not balloons outside, it's to see who's responsible for moving forward in this direction and in what pocket the money is -- Feder funds and recovery funds -- for funding and launching connectivity and 5G initiatives. I think it's important to remind you of who the competition is and who has the money for other similar situations that we've already lived in this House, like that of AP-9, without going further. When it comes to claiming Madrid, the Galician Nationalist Block seems to owe something to the Socialist Party, because it loses all its strength. [[Murmurs.]] We wouldn't have a problem voting points today, Mr. Castro, and supporting some of them, but we won't. And you know why? Because one day after another, and deliberately, you have to appoint the State, which is the competent administration. You'll know why they do it and what they owe them. But, of course -- and more recently -- the Greeks owe them zero. You ask us for a country position, and I wonder where yours is, Mr. Castro. I ask you to place once and for all everyone's responsibility in the proper administration. They defend the Greeks and they will always get our support. In fact, the central government has now approved a new plan for connectivity and the drive of 5G technology, which in Galicia is a very valuable alternative to bring connectivity closer to those more isolated rural areas. This is also collected in the 2020-2030 Galician Strategy, a strategy that will allow Galicia to remain a pioneer and attract the community to technological development and innovation in the use of this technology. We are going to demand a genuine and powerful dialogue from the Government of Greece with the Government of the State to achieve consensus and build future joint projects, projects that improve the quality of life of the Galicians and the Greeks, which prioritize areas with the greatest difficulty and allow Galicia to obtain the financial resources that it has to share from European funds. Mrs. Gallego and Mr. Castro, have the courage to join Galician defense action that is developing the Union. We're at a time when it's about to assume and defend this together, at a time when it's about consensus, and that's why I appeal to your responsibility as a country. In this league -- I'm going to do a sports simile that I think summarizes the trajectory of the Greek Government on this issue and what will be in the future, and I'm done -- in this league of connectivity, as much as you repeat it, we're not the last. We've been working on a team for many years and I'm not going to argue with them that, by our orography -- and they're not excuses -- or by our territorial dispersion, there are parties that are hard to play. It's not an excuse, it's a reality, Mrs. Gallego. It's not like we don't go last. I tell you with complete humility that we are pioneers and the first ones -- although they don't like to hear it -- in most of the initiatives that have been carried out. At this moment the German Government won't play waiting for time to pass, let's go into the discount and finish the game. The work done has prepared us to play and go to better leagues. And, therefore, the Joint Initiative will be firm for those who have the competences to exercise them; firm for the optimization of public funds to learn to solve these special situations, such as those that are given in some areas of our community; firm for the re-examined criteria for spreading in high-density areas of population and that we have seen that they are insufficient for the most isolated areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u78	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u79	...and firm to leave no Welsh and no Welsh, no company and no project outside the digitization and the opportunities it will generate in the future. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez López. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the parliamentary group responsible for the motion, Mr. Castro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u81	The truth is, I'm just freaked out. Motherfucker! First of all, Mrs Gallego, thank you for the words. I believe that we fully agree with all the elements of his analysis, and I believe that the initiative will be supported. Thank you very much. Then, Mrs. Pérez, to see... I've always trusted a great deal of the people of the People's Party's ability to argue and the ability to absolutely return to everything. But we're going back to a theme, to an issue, to what we are -- and we're going with the football analogies -- the collists in absolutely everything, in which we could say that we're going down from category year after year, and saying that they're moving forward -- because, I don't know, they've even been able to predict the pandemic, because the Union predicts everything -- that they're moving forward absolutely to everything and that the Union is leader and reference in the Spanish state... well, you have to recognize that at least merit is, uh! What can't be, is that INE and IGE are telling you that you are the territory of the Spanish state with the worst broadband connection, both by speed and by type of technology, and yet above all we give ourselves all these inflates of victory and triumphalism. Man, at least a little humility! I honestly said it because I didn't expect it. [[Applause]] I don't know. It'll be juvenile innocence. I didn't expect this tone, this triumphalism, the truth. [[Murmurs.]] Because it's not me or the people of the BNG who put Galicia down. [[Laughter]] It's the INE itself and the IGE itself. He said it was a negative story and I don't know what. Home!, negative report no, it's a realistic account and it's years lost too. By something they would create so many long-band plans, because they were all failed and because none of them achieved the marked targets. The targets marked by the European Union and the targets marked by the Galician Union itself have not been reached! Man, I think they're lost years. As I said before, argumentative juggling has to be such -- in order to defend a strong position of the Union, great measures and a great performance of the Union in this -- that we're talking about broadband and we're going to AP-9. I mean, of course, I understand that we have to use these elements, but well... [[Applause]] Finally -- and I'm no longer standing --, I came here already -- because maybe I expected a more benevolent response -- to encourage and drive artificial intelligence programs through the board, or to take the Greek language to the Internet and these things. Free me God! Look where we are, right? From now on, I promise I'll focus on smaller things so I can reach agreements, because soon you fill your mouth with consensus. [[Applause]] And I sincerely believe that today has demonstrated perfectly the number of amendments and initiatives, both by the Socialist Party and by the Nationalist Block, which they have supported, or by initiatives that will vote either for or against. And if they don't reach a consensus on this initiative -- with which I really think that, speaking carefully, all the Greeks and all the Greeks would be in favour because it's a reality and it's something this country has to shorten -- if not even the PP gets to vote in favour, it's because it's giving reason to the opposition. And that, even if they have the data in front of them, it seems impossible. We are very sorry about this position, and I think this country is more sorry about it. I think all those companies and all that business sector that even in industrial polygons can't enjoy an optimal and suitable 2021 speed will also regret it. As I say, we regret this position of the PP and I think it will be Galicia, as always, who will continue to pay. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u82	Thank you, Mr. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Paulo Rios Santôme, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in relation to the labour situation of the youth
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u83	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u84	To formulate the motion, Mr. Rios Santôme has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have come to bring this motion to plenary, born of the question put forward at the previous plenary session in December, to speak here about the situation of youth employment in our country. As we have already said, official data account for a totally desperate situation in which young people in Greece live in terms of their working conditions, as well as the ability to get a job and also the ability to have a project of their own life, economic independence and emancipation capacity. The youth labour market, as we have seen in recent times, has as fundamental characteristics temporality in signed contracts -- which is already the norm among contracts signed by young people in our country -- is very low wages -- less than the average wage received by the whole of the Greek society -- a rate of unemployment close to thirty percent and a destruction of youth employment of forty-six percent in the last eleven years. This is the panorama faced by young people in Greece for many years, without the Government of the United States betting on the generation of quality youth employment that allows people to be fixed and that young women in Greece have a worthy future on our land. The Government of Galician Union does not bet on youth, it does not bet on a better future for our country. One of the most tangible consequences of this precarious work and unemployment is that we see it in the continued expulsion of the Galician youth to other parts of the state and the world; a youth emigration that has evicted from our country about 80,000 young gales in the last decade. Last December, a report by the Galician Economic Forum was published -- which was released today in this plenary session -- about the problem of our country's lack of talent, which is only this same forced emigration because it is unable to have life and work opportunities in Galicia. This report estimates that our country loses between 178 and 311 million euros a year from the university education of girls who cannot produce and generate wealth in our country and who have to do it outside in order to survive. This same report reaches a figure of 1,500 births less a year in our country -- as we just said earlier in the Demographic Impulse Act -- and it also indicates that they stop creating around 315 companies in our country each year. What I want to move to this plenary is whether the ladies who are here believe that our country has the capacity to assume this. A government that works for the future of people, for the future of their country, cannot allow this to continue to happen. We have a country -- as we said before and as we have just talked about -- with an incessant demographic decline, with an unprecedented industrial crisis and where only 17% of the young people in Greece are economically independent, while 64% of girls under 30 have to live with their parents. It's not that I say, that the reflection of the Galego Institute of Statistics, that 64 percent of girls under 30 have to continue living in family residence because they have no capacity to access a housing. How could it be that in more than a decade of Mr. Faixóo's government, they weren't able to put any kind of remedy to this situation and even go to worst year by year? I really hope they don't come today with the cover-19 excuse, that this very worrying data about youth employment is to blame for the pandemic. What we really have to say is that what came to prove copper-19 is the water that makes its model for this country. What I'm going to put in the foreground are the structural problems that you created and helped create. This is clearly seen when we publish data like those I have here today: "The crisis destroys another 16,300 occupations of under 35 years of age in an accumulated fall of 50% in a decade." This also speaks of the labour market to which Galician youth accesses, the brutal outsourcing of our economy, which advances year by year with the governments of the People's Party. There's a crisis that just attacks the service sector -- housing, tourism and so on -- and we see that it dramatically destroys a very high percentage of youth jobs, where it was already warned, in a 2010 report, that 81% of contracts signed by young people in Greece are in the service sector. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the German Government, that you can't only eat cheap hospitality and tourism. And it seems that even if there's a crisis that leaves your big bet in a weak situation, what they do is to redouble that bet. They keep calling against the wall to see if it breaks. In the light of the data shown by the different bodies and institutions on this issue, I think we should play with two theories -- and I also said it in the previous plenary -- or either the board of Gaulza doesn't know how to tackle this youth work situation that leads to exodus to thousands and thousands of girls, or it's not your interest to do so. Today, in the debate on budgets, some Members and Members of this House spoke and said that the People's Party did not have a country project, which did not contribute anything, that did not have it and that other political parties did. The truth is, I'm pretty tired of this canteen, and I think you've heard me at another plenary session. The People's Party has a very clear project for this country, of course, very clear. We've seen it now with the Land Mobility Act, the Land Management Act, the Land Predation Bis Act, etc. A very clear project, which is to sell the country at a glance, convert us to the country of services, to the country of the Jacobs and to the country of low-cost tourism. [[Applause]] Of course you have a project for this country! [[Applause]] What's going to happen is that there'll be those who're worth it and those who don't. I don't think the Greek people are worth it. What alternatives will you give to youth when Galicia is one of the state communities in which you least invest in research? And I don't say it again, say the official data. When we increase the percentage of the outsourcing of our economy, when we get further away from the minimum percentages in terms of industrialization and weight in the productive sectors marked by Europe, the alternative given by the Government of Galicia to youth is to buy a suitcase and send it to work under terrible working conditions to foreign companies; or, as you wanted to call it, Galeuropa. The other alternative that the Galician Union has for Galician youth is to put it into precariously with public money, making youth go through a sort of "thousands of labor" or -- as I like to think about poetically -- through the sweet proofs of Hercules. They have to go out of stock exchange, from training contract to training until they can have a job. Those are their two alternatives: either precariousness or emigration. What we can't imagine is that Galicia's Strategic Youth Plan 2021 -- here I have it -- deepens on these issues, by making it easier for companies to hire young people in precarious ways. The company, most charming; the business, round. You have a free worker who generates infinite added value and you don't have to take responsibility for it. What is really sad -- and I think it's something we have to say here and that you have to know about Galician society -- is to see how the Galician Union works like an ETT for youth, which is taking it from precarious to precarious position without any kind of problem or shame. Youth -- as I said before -- cannot only eat tourism and alms, ladies of the People's Party. We need to completely change the model, where our country invests in research and new technologies, where it puts in place a reindustrialization plan and the closure of productive cycles in our country. We need a solid project, and that's incompatible with the absolute outsourcing of our economy and the dependence on tourism and hospitality. From BNG we understand that there are two fundamental parts to change this model and give it a present and a future worthy of our youth and our country. We need, first of all, real sovereignty to be able to put in place the political alternatives that our country needs so much; and the second piece is the political will to do so. And when I say royal sovereignty, I don't mean, ladies of the People's Party, wearing Galician, Galician, Galician clothes to put your finger on the government of the state when they don't rule, and be silent and submissive when they do. And here comes the second question: that of political will. This country needs that political will to change things, and that's exactly what government does in the state, because the People's Party prefers to focus its efforts on Jacob to provide a solid alternative to the popular classes of this country. If we want to guarantee the future of our country, it is essential to allow the immigrant young people to produce and create wealth here. And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we're late. Youth is the future, but it's also the present, and if it doesn't act in the present, there won't be a future to work for. I bet once for youth even if youth doesn't do it for you. Doing so will make the difference between ordering and ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Ríos. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr Balseiro Orol has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rivers, it's a lot of the killings and corrections we could make. In fact, you will understand that we are going to do so during this exhibition in relation to the statements we have just heard here from you. You're a young person and you're a person who's just arrived, so you're not to blame for anything, but your group does have a past and, as it has, we're going to put that past. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Starting with questions like that usage I think a little adultery that you make of statistical data, I would say that from distorted statistical data, even on some occasions I would say that even with bad intentions, in an effort desperate to justify that vision that you see. That catastrophic vision, which is not the same vision as most of the Greeks and the Greeks, that lends about the reality of employment in Galicia. No one denies, neither the People's Group -- the majority group -- nor the Government, that the work situation of the Greeks and the Greeks is being impacted by the pandemic. Nor should you deny, the Galician Nationalist Block, they should not deny that in Galicia the situation is different, that is, it's different because it's better than the rest of Spain. You shouldn't have denied that data either. I know you don't like us making that comparison, but the employment situation in Galicia is no better by chance. The employment situation in Galicia is better than in the rest of Spain because there is a government that has been able to react and has taken advance measures, measures that have worked and are working. And because there's a government -- the government of the Union -- focused on the design of initiatives that contribute to solving as quickly as possible the effects that this pandemic is causing on a global level and, in a very particular way, as far as young and young people in our country are concerned. Here we are faced with the first nationalist incoherence of Greece. In Galicia you question the procedure of a Government that is doing better than the rest of Spain, but in Spain you agree with that Government, that is, you agree with that Government. I have here the picture of the pact, I stole it from you -- it's not here now -- the deputy who... I mean, Ana and Adriana. You agree with them. They deal with the socialists, with the party that by action, and above all by default, is the main responsible for the deterioration of the labour situation of all Spaniards and, by extension, they will also understand that of young gales and young gales. [[Murmurs.]] They're their government partners, but the Socialist Party -- and I've already said it more often -- was the party that most jobs destroyed throughout the history of democracy where it ruled, but mostly in the central government. They're government partners in many municipalities in Galicia. They are your government partners in three of the four provincial deputies, and they are your government partners in Mr. Sánchez's investment, with which you managed to have the most expensive government in the history of democracy, to have the wider government, to have the most familiar government, and to have the Government -- I would say here and from Galicia we can say it -- more politically incompetent than we had. That's what the Galician Nationalist Block got with its vote. You go out of their hands instead of having the courage to break with them and row in favor of the employment policies of Junta, go with them instead of rowing in favor, ultimately, of Galicia. The data is there and it's useless to manipulate them. He gave us the counseling lady here in his interrogation and they can check them, in addition to you, because the data is public and transparent. If we speak in general terms, despite the outbreaks, Galicia closed the year -- December data -- with unemployment figures below April with the first impact of the pandemic. In addition, we are the fourth community with lower unemployment, with an increase of 14.69%, more than 8 points below the average of the state, which is 23%. And if we talk more specifically about youth employment -- which is what brought us here today -- we are 4 points below the national average, and we are the second community with a lower rate of youth unemployment between 16 and 24 years of age. Today there are 6% more busy, i.e. 6,300 more active girls and girls, and this figure is very relevant, especially intensive among university students. Galicia rises by 5 % the indefinite employment and represents 41 % of the young employment total, according to the data from the last EPA. And the average payouts in Galicia -- I'm giving you data. You actually made an exhibition here. Data didn't give any, but I'm giving you the data -- they went up by 5% in the collective between 18 and 25 years old, and by 4.38% in the collective of workers between 26 and 35 years old. I really believe that neither the PP nor the Government of Galicia are happy with these figures. Do you know why we're not happy with these figures? Because we work every day to improve them, both the government and the group that supports the government's action, the difference of its partners in Madrid, because -- I insist -- you support a government in Madrid with much worse data than those in Galicia. If these aren't worth them, what do you do by supporting a government that has much worse data than these? For this government, the situation of youth unemployment is one of their main concerns. Youth is the focus of various measures implemented in the field of active employment policies. I've already explained it to you, Counselor, and I think it's totally clear. All the strategic support line schedules of the Employment and Equality Council -- I insist, all -- they have specific youth employment plans. It would be absurd to quote them again -- Mrs. Counsellor has already done it -- but we can talk about some -- for example, the Galician Plan employs, the youth employment workers or the recruitment incentives. In all there are specific programmes or specific lines of support for those under 30 years of age, which receive enhanced or greater incentives in the aid concerned. But besides, resource mobilization is unrivalled -- you haven't given any data, and I'm going to keep giving you data -- to such an extent that since 2012 Galician Union has invested more than 315 million euros in active employment policies for under 30 years. This means an average of more than 39 million euros a year and more than 250,000 beneficiaries and girls. And as far as the last legislation is concerned, more than 130 million have been invested in it, which means 43.6 million euros per year on average. So you leave topics and you leave partisan claims. Of course there are problems, of course they do, of course there are problems. Of course, there is room for improvement, of course, which is why this government works every day and the group that supports the Government's action, to improve. But you don't talk about failed policies when you don't. Of course there's room for improvement, but the policies that the Government is implementing are not unsuccessful. And I sincerely believe, in addition, that this moment, with which it's falling, is the time to row together, or that's what the citizens are asking us, at least, to hear us out of here. I'll take care of it. You add the administrations in which they govern, the governments in Galicia, the support plans directed at the people in this situation, the support plans that the Galician Union has for people who are in a position of vulnerability, who seek employment and find it, who are part of sectors with a particular impact of pandemic measures, and who have to leave, of course, but not to expand training or experience. And if you want, if your group wants to, we're willing to try and reach an agreement. We are prepared to try to reach agreement in this House, since, unlike other similar initiatives, it is true that in the initiative they present today they propose concrete actions. And that's why we tabled the amendment to which Mr. President referred. We agree, from the majority group of this House and from the Government of Galicia, that a study on the working situation of young people in Greece should be carried out to improve public policies for youth employment; and even to adopt a employment plan for young people in Greece, which was provided with budget cuts that were necessary for the development of programmes and actions that favour the creation of youth employment. But let's do it, Mr. Rios, from a very important starting point: something is doing better from Galicia, from June, when all the youth employment statistics, all of them, offer better results in Galicia than the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u89	Something's going to be done! I'm not saying he's doing well, but he's doing better. I'm done, Mr. President. It's not by any chance that Galicia is the second community with the lowest youth unemployment rate between 16 and 24 years old, and the seventh one of the 19 compared to those under 30 years of age.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u90	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u91	You are part of the solution from here, not part of the problem. And, Mr. Ríos, that you didn't give me any data, you don't take me wrong, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u93	I've already told him that you're not guilty, that you've just arrived, but, without a doubt, it's part of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u94	Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u95	...of inheritance, especially that these lords have that... [[Mr. Balseiro Orol pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs Castro Rey.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u97	Thank you, President. I wanted to exhaust my first minute of the intervention to send a message of courage, a message -- as my shipmate Marina said -- from empathy to all those Welsh people who are suffering directly from coward-19 -- and whether it's in the field of health as in the age of the economy -- to all those sectors that are most affected, such as small trade, accommodation or nightlife and self-employed people. And I also want to send from here a message of responsibility. We have one last effort with the so-called sentiño so we can end this virus and achieve our so-called normality. I was going to say "freedom," but surely it is synonymous, at this moment, with normality for all of us. Now, as far as the motion is concerned, we are going to stand in favour of this initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block because we understand that there is this social demand. We've been working on this and we've also had initiatives. Even at the end of last year we brought a non-law proposition to this plenary where we expressed the need to improve the quality of youth employment. Because we have to be aware of the gravity of what is happening. The difficulties that youth is experiencing do not only revert to the weakness of their personal autonomy but also change the generational change in our society and may break the sustainability of our welfare state in the near future. The data, the real data -- even though Mr. Balsairo has others, from which he will already tell us the sources -- tell us that the situation worsened even more with the pandemic but it was no longer good. And the data tell us that during the first six months of the year 2020, the percentage of young men and girls emancipated was reduced to 1%. The Galician Union continues to react to this lack of opportunities for young people. We need housing policies aimed at improving the quality of rent and adapting the reality of youth to the market. And we also need policies to promote employment among new people, since we all know that settlement in a territory is due not only to family reasons, but also to influence to a great extent reasons such as job expectations or prolonging the curriculum. We all know that the relationship between the labour market and the fact that a young person can settle in an independent housing is very narrow. And right now -- and this is real data -- 18.6% of Galician people between the ages of 16 and 29 are living in an independent home, only 18.6%. And I'll also give you another real data. Data from the last quarter of 2020 of EPA say that the main characteristics of youth employment in Galicia are three: precariousness, instability and lack of rights. The curfew-19 crisis has only aggravated this situation, but this situation has already existed; therefore, we cannot blame it. The situation and data show that, from 2009 to 2020, there has been a gradual increase in the number of unemployed under 35. The last data is from the IGE. Are you accusing IGE officials of manipulating the data? Because they are the ones who say that the cumulative fall of occupation in under 35 years of age since 2007 is 50%. They are also those who say that 16,300 occupations of under 35 years of age were destroyed by 2020. The current rate of unemployment in the Galician youth is 21.6 %. And in view of these few job prospects, young people have to emigrate, they have to emigrate to seek opportunities -- whether in other autonomous communities or in other countries --. What does this prove? Which, even if you say the Government has been working for years, has to change its focus. You have to change the approach because you notice that these policies are totally ineffective. The Galician Union has to bet seriously on youth employment programmes that offer decent, stable and quality jobs to our boys and girls. Look, what I was saying at first, the reduction of emancipation at 1%, is a very clarifying fact; because at the end of the crisis, at a moment of work instability, the first thing you feel about is precarious work. The precarious jobs are the ones being carried out by the young and young people of our community. This change in public policies is therefore urgent. There is an urgent need for a change in employment management to provide satisfactory opportunities for our youth. My colleague Begoña said in the budget debate that the finalist funds coming from the State or the European Community should be implemented quickly for the training of, for example, the unemployed. A law of demographic impulse is a law that is nothing more than a law that will showcase you, and not enough. Galicia has an aging population and it's running out of boys and girls, who are really our future. Forced migration is not a matter of the past. The official figures of the Galician Union say that in the last few years, 300,000 Greeks and Greeks have had to pack. The difference of this Welsh emigration with the emigration of the last century is that of the 21st century it affects young people and girls, and in particular boys and girls with high education acquired on their land. I also referred to my companion Marina Ortega to the report that she presented earlier this year the Observatory of Persons entitled at the University of Vigo and to what she called "the escape of talent" and continued net loss of persons formed. And it also gave the figures of the amount and impact of both economic and social that has this -- as I said, 178 million euros a year of losses from the loss of talent and, as a social impact, 1,500 children and children who are no longer born in our territory --. Therefore, it requires the impulse of public policies that allow competition in equal conditions and try to guarantee the quality of life of young people. [[Applause]] Intimately linked to the previous one is access to the housing market. Under these conditions, the new population of Galicia cannot afford a purchase or rent. Access to housing is one of the main battles of young people in Greece. Official data -- this is also official data -- say that between the ages of 16 and 35 people who cannot leave the family home, who cannot be emancipated, are around 20 percent; and say that the average age for the independence of the people of Greece is 30 years. This is very behind the European average. The 2018-2021 Housing Plan was not a plan that adapted to the Greek reality, it was a plan that was focused on cities or population nuclei of less than 50,000 inhabitants. The new people don't want... well, they don't want, they don't want, but they can't live in the Italian countryside, because the German countryside has a total lack of services and job opportunities. And in the big cities and the big cities of Greece, in the case of minors under 35, the renter -- they also give official data -- they get 88% of their income; and the purchase, 61%. It's something totally unbearable, something that contributes, in addition, to the impoverishment of this population sector, as well as to the delay in its independence and, consequently, in paternity or maternity; and hence, the aging of the population. Within the Social Policy Council there was talk of the Youth Emancipation Programme, which aims to be a help in directing young people and girls in the emancipation process. And if you give them that program, all you have is a link to the State Housing Plan 2018-2021. There's no specific plan. We don't have a plan that adapts to the specifics of our community in the housing search process for new people. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that it is necessary to better address the possibility of emancipation of our young and young Greeks, and to ensure their access to housing by exploring all possibilities. Last week I was talking about Feijóo and announcing a new plan with a great investment. Let's hope this isn't left in a media smoke bomb, as it's used to us, and that it has practical effectiveness. Because, as I said at the outset, our state of future welfare depends on young people and girls, and it is therefore the government's responsibility to guarantee their development. And this one goes through access to a decent quality of life on his land. And nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castro. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Mr. Rios Santémé speaks for the group that is the author of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u99	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Balsairo said something will be done better here than in the rest of the state given the youth employment data. And I say it's true, what you're doing here is better the suitcases. That's what's doing better here. When the advisor gave the data at last December's interrogation, we talked about the data. [[Applause]] And today we also talked about data, whether data were manipulated or whether it was collected according to interest and so on. I gave some data, perhaps not as much as you would like, but there's also a lot of data in the explanatory statement, although there's already a little out of date since the processing time of these kinds of initiatives. But it's just that I like to talk more about reality -- accompanied by data, but also about reality --. Because, as I also said in that speech, the data is interpretable, they're manipulatable, and everyone takes them as appropriate. That's no secret, that's how it works. You'll probably agree with this, that it shouldn't be done but that it is done. But there's also something called "reality" that you like to impose your criterion -- as I've said here several times --. I made a suggestion to them the last time I was here in this gallery, and they took advantage of Christmas -- because it was saved and everything was perfect -- that they used Christmas to talk to young people who came back for Christmas and to ask them if they could really come back to this country and see if they could get back to this country for a job. You see, they didn't, because if they did, maybe a lot of things that were talked about here very briefly about youth and employment because they wouldn't have been said. I'm very surprised -- well, it surprises me in a moderate way -- Mr. Balsairo, who in much of his intervention began to talk about Ana and Adriana, about covenants with the PSOE and so on. I suppose that speaks of the few arguments that are on the table to discuss this issue. And what I want to tell you is that it's true that I'm young, that I'm young, but I wasn't born yesterday. I've been young, but I've been working as a waiter for 17 years. And at best, I don't know that much statistical data, but from working six days a week and twelve hours a day at a bar or a restaurant I do know. [[Applause]] That's the reality you have to go to the street, and you have to talk to new people. They don't look at that: "No, because the Galician board didn't know how many millions would be at the disposal of that..." Right, but what model, why, to give a young man or a three-month-old girl contract to a company and that that company, after three months, took someone else and then someone else... What model are they financing with public money? What employment model, recruitment, are financing with public money? It's just that the problem is not how many girls get out of unemployment or how many jobs have been destroyed. It's 46% in youth employment. That's what I think is quite important in the last eleven years, in the time that Fexóo has been ruling. But for what purpose?, to fill private pockets with public money -- how is the topic --? The problem is, the problem is, Galician Union thinks that, with its measures -- that are collected, as I said before, in the Strategic Youth Plan 2021 -- if employment issues are considered. But it's with a completely wrong model and it's demonstrated year after year how it's not enough and how they don't go on the path they have to go. The problem is the labour market model that is financing or promoting. And that's what we have to do. What we have to do is change that model, and that's why it was about sovereignty, about having the ability to put this country to produce, and that young people can have a stable job, a job that is minimally decent. It's not just paying a company to get a kid or a girl three months and it's over. It's about what I was talking about before, about the sweet proofs of Hercules, about the precarious jobs that young people are chained up to be able to have a minimally normal job. We don't hang up medals for being a little better than other administrations, than other territories. One, because then, if we expand the data with the people who left, etc., we see that there's not so much to boast about. But how sad is the "bad of many..."! You know. I wanted to tell Mr. Balsairo, as to the amendments he proposes, that we understand that the motion already has a few minimum proposals, completely minimal, and we believe that we should further reduce the commitment to this option as it does not make much sense. I'm asking you, if you're really committed to this question and if you think you should do what the motion does, don't lower your commitment and support this motion, which I believe -- and you said -- which is sensible, I think it's going to what you have to go. And I ask that among all of us make that youth can have a worthy future on this earth and that the land itself can have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Ríos. We moved on to the third of the motions. Motion by G. P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Martín Seco García, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to negotiations between wind promoters and landowners
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u101	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños, in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House, tabled the following amendment to this motion, Doc. # 6914 (11/MOC-000021).Replace the text of the following paragraph (6):"6)A new Wind Sector Plan with a broad participation of the agents involved and which precipitously includes a report of the Economic and Social Council and a broad process of public exposure in order to bring together the best possible consensus."Adding amendmentAdd two new points 7) and 8)]] with the following text: "7)Desisting from encouraging legislative changes in the wind sector camouflaged in other bills and encouraging a new consensus to replace the present wind-use law and planning the development of the wind energy of the next decade by harmonizing economic, energy, social and environmental objectives and interests, ensuring transparency, environmental assessment by public administrations and limiting expropriatory processes to the minimum. 8)To go to the central government to demand specific thrusts to grant the economic regime of renewable energy in areas affected by the closure of thermal power plants -- a possibility that includes the legal framework for a fair transition to the future of the Strategic Framework for Energy and Climate -- ").
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u102	Mr. Seco García has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u103	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is already the third full debate on this issue. And until now, we have been unable to get some kind of reflection from the People's Party about the evasiveness that exists in the process of deploying wind energy in our country beyond talking about the evil Bipartite and the wind competition -- something that is already boring, gentlemen of the People's Party -- or critical of the central government, a government that turns out to be in the middle of 2018 and, according to the Galician People's Party, is guilty of the failure to deploy wind energy since 2009. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we ask you to open your eyes and act on what's going on in rural areas -- today that we talk so much about rural and impoverishment --. A little while ago we were talking about the abandonment of agricultural land, and they are continually talking about the depopulation of rural areas. But they should do more to talk about solutions and not only as a formula for asking for positive actions for Galicia that are then not used to make that positive discrimination towards our rural community. You fill your mouth to talk about these issues, but then you hide like ostrich when it's rural itself, which asks you to give them information, to advise them, to balance negotiations, to improve the income that comes to the owners or to get the tax burden to the rural communities. From the Socialist Party we haven't come here to make an intervention against the wind sector and its deployment. Our party is the only government party in the state that has always resolutely wagered for renewable energies. And this is something known by the sector itself and by public opinion, which will not swallow with its attempt to turn reality as they do continuously in commission and in full. Galicia has had strong wind development from 1997 to 2008 thanks to a regulatory framework that has favored the deployment of wind farms. And with the arrival of the current government of the Union, there has been a lack of bet by the sector and a legal insecurity created by yourself that, in addition to the policies of blocking renewable energies that have been carried out since the presidency of the government of Mariano Rajoy, has caused a paralyzing of the growth of the wind sector until 2018. And I don't say, tell him the data, gentlemen of the People's Party, if you analyze a little of those diagrams that talk about the wind deployment in those years in Galicia. [[Applause]] From 2009 until 2018, both included and with governments of the People's Party in Galicia and also in Spain, only 277 megawatts were installed. This meant a million-dollar loss in investment in Galicia, the impossibility of creating thousands of jobs and that many of the business initiatives in the sector were disappearing and with them their jobs. In 2019 it returned to Galicia the increase in power installed in wind farms, with 415 megawatts and 18 new parks -- almost double the power installed in the previous ten years --. By 2020 it reached close to 4,000 megawatts in our territory and, according to the forecast for the 2020-2030 decade, it is possible to install more than double the current power. In the proposals presented in the motion that we bring today, there are no questions that can cause strong disputes and differences between the groups. They do not want to paralyze the wind development of our land and simply put forward measures to support our rural system in order to democratize the wind system and establish balances between owners and wind promoters without risking, of course, our natural wealth and the primary activities of our territory. It's our rural one who denounces day after day feeling helpless before the multitude of wind projects that flourish throughout our territory without the Autonomic Administration giving them information about what's going on, without knowing where they have to go so that those who should be their allies defend their interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, every week some citizen of our extensive rural territory calls on our group to ask for information on the possible deployment of wind farms in their territory. And that's the first of the six points of this motion. Why don't they set up an environmental technical and administrative advisory office from the Galician Union?, what's the problem?, why do they prefer to turn their backs on our neighbours? Why don't you accept the implementation of mechanisms to promote transparency and collaborate with our rural neighbours by setting up a standard contract model to negotiate with wind farms companies? What is the problem with the People's Party to do so? That's the second of the six points that brings our motion. As you can see, these aren't themes that paralyze or attack wind development, and they're just trying to help our rural citizenship. Why do you not agree to establish a public information base for the prices achieved in negotiations between the affected parties in the installation of an wind farm? This is the third of the six agreements that contemplate this motion. Why are they afraid of transparency and support for our citizens? You, who are the great advocates of private property, leave the municipalities and the rural communities, who seek the help of their rulers in order to be able to negotiate with those who come to use their property. Why do they not agree to introduce mechanisms that balance negotiations between owners and promoters? How much does the wind industry weigh? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the reality is that the owners receive about 2 percent of the wind business, about 11 million euros of the total. That amount should be increased if, as you say, they are strongly committed to our countryside and making policies that fight against their abandonment. Another of the points we introduced in this motion -- and there are already four of the six you have -- is that they correct the insufficient return the Environmental Compensation Fund has and the wind canon in the municipalities affected by the installation of these parks, that the cannon is established by installed power, now that much more power mills are introduced. And that the collection of this background -- set in an opaque way -- acts directly on improvements in municipalities and local communities affected by the installation of parks, which is fair. The Galician Wind Observatory reports that local income for landowners where wind is installed is only 5% of all billing generated by these parks. And the so-called billing -- as we all know -- is multimillionaire. The fifth of the six points of this motion speaks of strengthening environmental guarantees to defend our natural heritage and the future of our productive sectors. There are multiple complaints that we receive from collectives throughout Galicia about how wind farms projects are appearing throughout our territory without seeing an order or planning by our administration, with projects where most of them have no future. We watch the presentation of projects fractionated in front of the eyes of the Autonomic Administration violating the current legislation. And that's the third time I ask you about what you're planning between the towns of Otes, Mazarics and Black. Don't you think there's a fraction of projects where there are already four parks and if you're planning four more with their evacuation lines? Don't you see the fractionation, gentlemen of the People's Party? And what about the projects that want to develop between Orders, Curtis and Messia, four supposed parks that should be one? I'll ask them if there's no fractionation there either. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the reality is that there are judicial judgments that speak of this fractionation. The protection of the territory is inadequate with the deployment and refuelling of parks in places too close to housing, even when the size of the wind increases exponentially. In Galicia, social and environmental conflicts are growing, and the rulings against wind developments such as those of the Sasdonicas, in Mondoñedo, or the one of the Oribio, on the Lugo Mountain appear. As I told you in previous debates, they talk to the farms located in the rural areas of high agricultural content, such as the previously exposed ones, with companies -- some national reference located in the municipality of Messia, with a huge effort, as you ask, to develop an extensive and ecological activity -- that they see how their activity is at risk for the installation of 200-metre mills at the doors of their farms without anyone opening their doors to their concern at the Galician Summit. That's happening, People's Party gentlemen, and then they're talking about leaving the land. [[Applause]] Finally, and as a sixth point of this motion, we are talking about reviewing the Galician sectoral wind plan, which dates back to too many years ago and which could be the basis for that consensus that we have been calling for initiative. I will no longer speak of the absolute futility of the industrial competences of your government; useless for the generation and maintenance of employment in the wind sector, with which you are living, for example, the workers of Gamesa, in Somozas, when you can only look elsewhere for explanations. I ask you again to reflect and listen to the multiple groups that you command in Galicia, asking them for help in the defence they feel before big companies, to listen to the rural municipalities and local communities, including many of the ones you rule, who see how their resources are exploited without receiving the desirable benefit among their citizens, and to listen to the industries and gainful farms. They're in time to deal with a new wind model to correct the deficiencies that the system put in place by you leave on top of the table. You decide: either you take part in citizenship or you let big energy companies not benefit from our rural territory, even if they make their ex-companies from the parliamentary group or the board of directors, like Mrs. Beatriz Mato. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u104	Thank you, Mr. Martín Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, you have the floor of Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u105	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr Seco also started by recalling that this is a matter of which we have discussed throughout the last plenary session, and I also want to do so to move forward that we will support this proposal. There are many of the issues that the Socialist Group is proposing today that we have discussed on other occasions at the initiative of the Socialist Group itself, and at some point we also coincided with initiatives we have brought from the BNG, without going further, to the last ordinary plenary, before the end of the previous plenary session. There's obviously a common point, that there's a shared concern about the situation that is taking place right now in our country, about the urgency of the moment, above all, but also about the urgent need for the People's Party to step on the brake in the absolutely wild and predatory model that is developing on this issue. We have been warned in this House -- and today we want to do it again -- of this new boom that lives our country, but not because we are concerned about the expansion of the wind sector, which we understand is fundamental, but because we are concerned about how; how the People's Party is allowing it, and finding the way for it to develop. Because -- we've said it many times, and I'm going to repeat it again -- renewable doesn't mean automatically harmless, doesn't mean there's no problem. And, unfortunately, the law of the jungle in which the People's Party is putting us is having problems, and many of them; problems that run counter to the needs that our country has from a territorial point of view, from an economic and social point of view. So we're not happy with paralyzing first, for almost a decade, the development of the sector, because right now we're living a very worrying moment in which, as I've already said on other occasions, it seems that the cure is worse than the disease. That period of absolute emptiness that had the first years of government of Nuñez Feijóo is now followed by a law of the jungle which, of course, does not seem at all positive to our country and which is already being an objective outcome, and not only for more and more collectives, social agents and even councils that denounce it, but also by judgments. I wanted to quote two in particular for his recent character and also to appeal once again to the People's Party and to the Council of Galicia to stop resorting to these judgments. One of them is last November 13 concerning Sasdonigas. I would like to recall that, with the park already in operation, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia annuls the decision of the Government of the Union to amend this project because it considers that the fragmentation and artificial division of the park prevents analysis of its impact on nature and heritage. Later, a month later, on Tuesday, December 15, another sentence was known, in this case also of the TSXG, concerning the Iribio saw, which, by the way, I am saying that it is not any land, which is a land that has different categories of protection, among them, one of the favorites, when it comes to breaking them by the People's Party, is the Natura 2000 Network, and I am going to read literal phrases -- again in this Chamber -- of this sentence to see if they are finally rubbed a little bit in the People's Party. The sentence says: "Environmental injuries are constantly occurring, and in relation to Galicia it is evident that both decrees and law have different lines of action and, in a remarkable way, in relation to the environmental impact on the part of regulations. There is still a great legal gap in environmental matters in which energy companies were supported to carry forward their projects, and the competent energy administration has tended to a tremendously productive interpretation, aside from how the said increase is possible, seeming the normative response to continue grasping a productive response." That's what jurisprudence says; that is, it says that the Government of Greece is installed in productionism, that there are legal lakes and that environmental guarantees are not being met. This is no longer what ecological platforms, local ones, say concrete movements that have a problem or conflict with a particular wind park, but that is what the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia itself says. It's not something we've invented since the Galego Nationalist Block and betrayed here, but it makes a deep criticism of the omission of the Galician Union and its role as government in shielding environmental, social and economic guarantees and its participation in a defeat. In that sense, I believe that these issues we have in common with the Socialist Group, but we are presenting three amendments that are driving us to increase -- we understand -- the issues they suggest. One important thing for us is to replace the sixth point, because the Socialist Party is talking about reviewing the wind sector plan, and, of course, the problem we have now is that the People's Party is no longer that it has reviewed it, but the next one. The question is how you are doing it, behind the back of society, without a deep debate, without, for example, a report from the Economic and Social Council and the agents involved and without a basis of consensus. We understand that in order for there to be a real consensus we have to appeal to a new wind sector plan, because we do not trust the People's Party with these precedents. So, on the line of collectives who are asking for the plan's failure, of collectives like the more than 60 that signed the village manifesto with the horizon and on the line of other demands that exist throughout our territory, we understand that the key is in a new sectoral plan, especially because we're going to a development boom without a road map and an obsolete plan of the year 1997. I admire Mr. Seco's optimism, but, of course, I would be very suspicious if anyone were to review it is exclusively the People's Party, seeing how they're carrying things. That's why other of the issues we've added in our amendment is to appeal to the People's Party and to the Galician Union to withdraw from the strategy that they're making to change the wind map from the back, for example, with that Law of administrative simplification, disguised in it, but that actually introduces very significant changes in the field of energy, wind development and that we're very concerned about it in a very important way, because we understand that it goes on the line contrary to what this country needs, and that what you're looking for is to find these megaprojects the steps instead of making a preliminary planning that needs to be installed, how it needs to be installed and, above all, to safeguard also the areas that we need to protect. We have very much shared the reflection that is made on the situation of the Natura Network. This very law that I basically refer to is that they're going to put the Nature Network's Master Plan to the service of what big energy companies need. It's the world behind it, isn't it? It's going to decide the energy sector that four can leave without installing in our country so that we can protect it, but the rest of the government adopts its productive and default strategy. We just added two more questions. One is that I just explained, and the other is that right now, and seeing what's happening in the comarcas that depend on the thermal power plants, we understand that too, because even today, if I don't quite remember -- with this plenary I don't know what day I'm going to go on -- if you're developing a handful of renewables, you need to develop a specific for these coal regions, and we've included that last point, but in any case, go ahead and we'll support the motion anyway. We understand that there are issues such as transparency, rigour in environmental assessment or change in the deficiencies of the wind canon and the Environmental Compensation Fund, which are fundamental elements. There are issues that are purely logical, such as transforming the wind cannon to be covered by power, not simply installed infrastructure units. That's something the People's Party could have included in that Accompanying Law that was passed today in the morning, and it's something that could include in that Accompanying/Depredation Law bis that presupposes the Administrative Asylum Act, but, of course, here is a very clear example that something that would be very easy to solve does not want to do it alone and exclusively because it doesn't agree with its political model and also because by the way of facts they are assuming the failure of the wind canon. Of course, environmental purposes are clear that they are not being met, and it has also brought us some kind of problem with the increase in bills. Finally, I would also like to stress that within the change of wind and energy model that this country would need, of course, an elemental issue must be the guarantees of economic return, of development of the innovative part in Galicia, but also of a strong bet why the components of this sector itself develop here, so that this chronicle of an announced death that seems to be Siemens-Gamesa. Of course, it is an absolute shame that, having this country, having this wind boom, having the installed power it has and having the capacity that we have to develop in the sector, there is no minimal strategy by the Government of Galicia so that companies like this keep their activity located in Galicia. While we're seeing how other countries will continue and continue to install and increase their productive capacity, here it leaves hundreds of mortgaged families. That's the model that the People's Party is leading us to, and of course, what we claim is a correction, under this motto, brief but illustrative of that: "cholic yes, but not so." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Novoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u107	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth, Mr Seco, is that the position adopted by the PSdeG regarding the Greek wind sector and the anxiety they intend to convey in the Greek society is incomprehensible. In their permanent struggle with the BNG from July 12 after being relegated to that third position in this House, they will go up to the limit of putting themselves against a successful sector in the future, such as the wind sector, even wanting to contradict the extreme energy transition strategy advocated by Mr. Sánchez from Madrid. Look, Mr. Seco, you can't defend and attack the Greek wind sector at the same time and with the same argument. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we must recall the past, because we cannot come here and speak, on the one hand, of the paralysis of previous years, obviating two very serious situations that occurred after their penultimate government in Madrid: one, which left Madrid and Galicia in a deep economic crisis, and two, which generated a hole in the Spanish energy sector of EUR 30,000 million of tariff deficit which caused the Spanish light to turn from one of the cheapest in Europe to one of the most expensive; and on the other hand, criticising that in 2019 439 new wind megawats were put into Galicia, infusing errors in the truth concerning environmental failure. Look, Mr Seco, the environmental assessment procedure that applies in the wind sector is -- as it cannot be otherwise -- to European legislation, Directive 2011/92, and to the State law that transposes that law, 2011/2013, of environmental assessment, which applies equally to all Spanish communities. You ask in your motion points, things, which would put Galicia in a inferior position with respect to the other autonomys at the time of wind development, which, yes or yes, we must allow, Mr. Dry. Among other things, by the extreme energy transition to which his government in Madrid compels us. We have a lot of renewable megawatts to install to cover the closing hole of the thermal power plants in Galicia, Mr. Seco. That, unfortunately, is your decision. Look, it also makes it clear that Natura's land is at risk of protection. We've already told you here the vice president and me on countless occasions. You can't install windmills on the Natura Network, it's forbidden by law, and its repotency is very restricted and made it this Government, the Government of Mr. Feijóo. You ruled in the bipartisan. I could do it and they didn't. That's the reality. Look, the success of the Greek wind sector has a name and it's very well managed and well done by the People's Party. You assume here of megawatts opened in 2007, when they were megawatts managed by Mr. Fraga's previous government. Mr. Seco, you tell the truth. You didn't manage those megawatts. The more than 400 megawatts installed in 2019 were thanks to the renewable energy auctions called by Mr. Rajoy's government. That's right, after putting order in the energy sector, curbing the unabated tariff deficit generated by Mr. Zapatero, and even creating surpluses, which is now again a deficit. Your Honor, they came to the Government and what was surplus now becomes a deficit again. Look, megawatts who've assumed an important and more than good work from the Galician Industry Council. And thanks also, yes, to the Business Implementation Act, which will complement the Act of Economic Reactivation. We're all going to see here how committed you are, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek opposition to the economic reactivation of Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs. Presas, no environmental guarantees, no property, no technical, no law on the law of reactivation, Mrs. Presas. As much as you want to say. Look, only procedures are agitated and deadlines are reduced, and no reports are deleted. Look, Your Honor, as much as you claim here -- Mr. Seco -- they didn't call for renewable energy auctions in 2018, nor in 2019, nor in 2020. His first auction was today. That's the reality. Look, the yellow wind sector, it's hard for them, it's 180 parks. They were more than 7,000 jobs in our community and reached 1% of GDP and allowed 130 million euros to be paid in taxes, taxes, and almost 11 million euros in income for farm owners. It seems uncomfortable to you that in 2019 Galicia was able to install the fifth of the wind energy from all over Spain. It was a success thanks to a joint effort, public-private collaboration, so necessary, that the BNG so hated and that it seems that the PSOE is trying to imitate. Look, we have a serious administration and a serious industry that doesn't deserve the constant attack on this opposition. They should stop doing it at once -- for the third time since we've been legislating -- opposition to the wind sector, which does not benefit anyone, gentlemen. But the height of the Socialist Party in its strategy of imitation and copy/paste of the BNG is that they are against the companies they themselves were trying to help. When they ruled with the bipartite -- although the councillor was from the BNG -- they helped megawatts to ENE, Naturgy or Iberdrola. And even today -- that you were talking about auction -- there was a auction and we didn't choose who was riding wind farms. I guess you wouldn't choose them either today, the ones that got megawatts at auction, like Naturgy or Capital Energy. I suppose you don't choose them, just like we didn't choose them. Look, I'll answer you a little above, but giving you arguments at your points. You should know and not infuse the confusion that the municipalities have all the information from any wind farm, mayors and collectives. The law requires that all public information and consultation procedures to concerned administrations and interested persons be carried out with appropriate means for the maximum dissemination of citizenship within the municipalities concerned and also in the surrounding areas. You should know the State Environmental Assessment Act 21/2013, which applies to wind farms and which is common to all autonomous communities. As for the statement of public utility, it's in a state law, the law of the electricity sector of 2013; and also the expropriatory process is in a much older state law. Look, we don't do in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, nothing different than what they do in other autonomies in the wind sector. As for the wind cannon, I'm glad both now put the value in the wind cannon. They voted against it at that time, now they recognize it. Look, it cannot be recorded by the installed power; no, Mrs. Presas. You who both defend here or have spoken here about the territorial supplement, the wind canon records the impact on the environment and is made by the number of generators. If we did it through power, it would record power and that would actually translate into a territorial supplement. Mrs. Presas, read it. Look, the wind cannon has been able to raise 229 million euros and has been funded by over 2,000 projects. As far as the standard contract is concerned, it should be understood that public administrations cannot impose contracts on third parties, and that the principle of freedom of covenant must be respected. A public price information base does not enter the wind sector plan or the justice database. Stressing that, despite their weight, the percentage according to the last 18 parks installed in 2019 reached 85% according to the owners. I insist that there is no need to strengthen any type of environmental guarantee, and I have explained it to you. The processing of wind farms is done in accordance with the state legislation that transposes European directives, and of course the German law agrees with all these. Cannot install parks on Natura Network. No matter what they say, it's not true. And finally, we have an attractive sectoral wind plan and a community with a lot of potential. They don't blame the truth on the wind sector and its processing. As for the judgments, they're studying and they're going to be seen whether or not they're resorting. We're not going to talk here -- that I don't have time -- about the juridical success of the bad wind competition of the bipartite. Look, I think I gave him sufficient and clear argument why we didn't support his motion. [[Murmurs.]] And without getting too much into the socialist past, which, of course, had a lot to do with the situation of renewable energy in Spain, and also with the high price of electricity that unfortunately we are suffering all Spanish consumers in 2021. Because, gentlemen, we start 2021 with the greatest rise in the price of electricity in history, and we are not like you, Your Honor. I imagine what would happen, ask yourself, if Rajoy were to rule in Madrid today, or if he ruled the PP in Madrid? They would fill the full range of initiatives on the price of light. This fullness, not mu! [[Murmurs.]] Chiton! [[Murmurs.]] In 2017, it was Rajoy's fault for rising the price of light, 8%. This year, 30 %, Mr Sánchez and Mr Social Vice-President, hiding in the slaughterhouse. As much as they talk about historical memory, but I was telling you the other day in the Commission, they have a very selective historical memory. They don't remember everything they talked about just two years ago. They criticized the rise in light prices at that time and it turns out that, ladies and gentlemen, it is now a conjunctural rise of only a few euros, and that it will affect... just a few euros... in the midst of an economic crisis and in the midst of a pandemic! Please, that's your concern for social and poverty in this country and at the moment we're living. But the problem is, we don't just pay the most expensive price of light at home, we also pay it at industrial level. You caused a short circle of industry in Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen... yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They provoked the price of light and without any alternative to closing -- now let's hope that it will be arranged -- for Alcoa. They've been two years to pass a statute that doesn't convince anyone. We'll see what happens if there are no other companies in that situation in a short time, Mr. Seco. And the worst of all is that you had to come to Filomena to put the thermal power plant of the bridges into operation again... yes, yes, yes, yes, you had to activate two groups! [[Murmurs.]] Yes, the other day Mr. Seco said -- the selective historical memory, you know? - that it wasn't Mrs Rivera. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I have a headline -- a couple of people who came out at that time -- "The new Minister of Energy points to nuclear and mine. Coal is over," 06-06-18. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] Then you can't come here to defend yourself, gentlemen, to follow the bridge center. You can't defend, on the one hand, the bridge center, and allow it to close. If they want the Bridges where they rule, declare it central back, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] They declare it and deny Endesa's closure. We agree with a fair energy transition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u109	...that I leave no one behind; not like you, Mr. Seco. The worst thing is, we don't know what the energy strategy of the Socialist Group is, we don't know it! Because, not wind, not thermals, what is your strategy, Mr. Seco? He's got a second round to answer. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing else on my part and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Novoa. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] Motion author group. Mr. Dry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u111	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs Novoa, we could come here to mess up this debate. To say things like... but I think it's your usual industrial strategy: always try to link everything to others and not assume absolutely any responsibility for what they really do. It's funny they're talking about what's going on in Endesa The Bridges when they know perfectly well that the company decided to stop its activity because of the CO2 prices and the fall in natural gas prices. [[Applause]] I don't know if you know, in addition, that in the European Commission who was in charge of these issues was Mr Arias Cañete, who was from the People's Party. But I also suppose it was a question of the evil Socialist Government of Madrid. [[Murmurs.]] And you're also trying to confuse everything completely: to demand and ask wind companies to leave part of the benefit in the territory to be against the wind sector. I think it's completely compatible. And what is completely incomprehensible is that they are unable to approve a motion like the one we are presenting today, precisely, which seeks to avoid issues of greater controversy and, therefore, it comes from us that we do not want to accept any kind of amendment because we wanted to enter into the position that you had on each of the points that we presented. And that is precisely what this motion was about, to observe whether the People's Party was able to visualize the problems that arise in our rural areas and to act to democratize the current system, promote transparency and establish balance between owners and promoters. And, of course, don't put our natural wealth and our territory's primary activities at risk. Without going into major changes that could cause a greater degree of controversy, take note of what our proposal says and then explain to the citizens of our rural community, to communities of mountains of man common and to smaller municipalities with less resources why they are unable to take these proposals into account: -- Create an environmental technical and administrative advisory office for municipalities and communities affected by processes of the development of wind activity in their territory. It must be very complicated for the Galician board to put on this kind of office that they were claiming many of the municipalities to be informed! -- Establish in the wind canon and in the environmental compensation fund that the canon is established by the installed power of the wind park using the full collection to act on improvements in the municipalities and local communities affected by the installation of these parks. It must also be a matter on which you understand that we must harm the wind sector! -- Establish a standard contract model to promote transparency and the guarantee of rural owners. It must also be a very difficult question! We're not saying that that contract is exaggerating, but that a contract model is put on top of it just so that this transparency can be promoted. -- To create a public base of price information reached in negotiations between the affected parties in the installation of an wind farm. It's also a very complex, very complicated subject! -- Strengthen the environmental guarantees of the territories affected by the installation of new wind farms and the repotencing of existing ones. It's also a very complex subject! And to review the wind sector plan to adapt it to the current situation in Galicia, which is certainly the year 90 and peak. As you can see, we do not criticize Mr Fraga's wind policy; we are criticizing the current one, not the one that led to that gentleman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of the Government -- who is now entering -- it's good for you to advertise the great commitment of the Greek Government to our countryside. Perhaps with its media control, someone creates you who bet on the rural people of Galicia, even though we see every year how the Government of Greece diminishes the services it offers to the citizen of this environment and how depopulation grows without effective measures to paralyze it. But, ladies and gentlemen, I strongly ask you to do something, to curb the changes that are taking place in school transport at the Courel, Counsellor; to act so that the entire population of the rural has proper medical services, Counsellor; to provide the economic departure of the Home Help Service, which drowns the municipalities with more economic problems and less resources; to do something more than say that they bet on rural, when reality shows the opposite. And the best thing is to observe what happens to the wind sector, an element that could be the dynamizer of our rural area and to provide resources that are very lacking in that environment and in which they are unable to take such initiatives as those brought by our group today with this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u112	Thank you, Mr. Seco. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] At the end of the debate on motions, we shall proceed to the vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u113	We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Castro. No amendments were tabled. Vote of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Castro García, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government in relation to the percentages of expansion of the long band. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u114	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr Paulo Ríos Santôme. There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group which has not been accepted. Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Paulo Rios Santôme, on the actions to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia in relation to the labour situation of the youth. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u115	We now vote for the Socialist Group in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Martín Seco García. There is an amendment by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which is accepted. [[The sitting was closed]] Excuse me? Ah!, don't you accept it? I'm sorry. [[Refusal.]] Then it must have been that we didn't understand each other. Well, you don't accept. We have to vote again. We're not going to have a mistake about this. It's not worth it. I mean, we don't accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, but we're going to vote again; we're not going to vote again, it's not the devil. We voted, we voted... we've been here for a while, even though we've had a little more time. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. [[The sitting was closed at 6.00 p.m.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happened here? We're wide-eyed. Something happened here that we voted badly. [[Murmurs.]] No, I didn't vote, but there's still more to vote. Something happened to us. Well, my vote is against it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Voting of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Martín Seco García, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to negotiations between the wind promoters and landowners. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Designation of Members or Self-Government Members for Defence in Congress of Members of the Bill to present before Congress of Deputies, Organic, Transfer of Ownership and Competences of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u116	Now it corresponds, as I said at noon -- I think it's noon, now I don't realize; the hours we've been here, I don't know whether it's noon or whether it's midnight, I don't remember -- to designate the Members who are going to defend in the plenary of the Congress the Proposal for Organic Law on Transfer of the title of AP-9. We will therefore have to vote. We have to prepare the polls and put us to the vote, according to the Rules of Procedure. So let's get the polls ready and we'll start calling. You have to write the proposed name in a paperwork. Each political group shall propose its representative. [[Pause.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? I don't hear anything. We have to go and call. Each Member has to write a name and those who have the most votes will be elected, up to a number three.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u117	Is everything all right? Okay. So, let's start. I beg the secretary to proceed with the call.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u118	Belares Rodríguez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u119	I don't hear anything. What do you want the word for? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, I just can't hear you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or procedure? The procedure is as set out in Article 163.3: "For the appointment of Members who have to defend the legislative proposals in the Congress of Deputies, as provided for in Article 10(1)(f) of the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, each Member shall write a name on the corresponding ballot. They will be elected to a maximum of three, in the number that will pre-fix the fullness by an absolute majority." Members who get the most votes shall be those who show representation. Each deputy writes a name. Yes. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u120	We were asked to transmit the names we proposed. Can you tell us which names are going to be voted on? I mean, can you tell us what the names are, the names we're going to vote on?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u121	Those are the ones who will be elected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u122	No, no, we need to know who we can vote for. Obviously, we can't vote without knowing what the names are. Are there any drawbacks? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u123	Any Member of Parliament, you have to vote for a Member. [[Laughter]] I'm sorry. Please, let's handle this situation calmly. That's where the Juridical Services know. Each Member will have to vote for one Member. I mean, you have the right to vote for one. I'm not going to tell whoever you want from the House. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, even a top of three are the ones we're going to choose. [[Mr. Arangüena Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, but alternates don't have to choose them. Sarmento, the alternates, do we have to choose them? You can choose another time. [[Pause.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] According to the lawyer -- that this is what they know; I let myself carry by what he tells me, which is what always leads us to good fate -- you have to choose one, the headline, and then the vote of the alternate will take place another time. So we're going to vote for the headline. Each Member shall vote freely to whom it belongs. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think it's clear now, let's not complicate it any more. Each member must vote one. [[Ask for a word Mr. Puy Fraga.]] Yes, give a voice to Mr. Puy's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u124	Thank you. I simply want to inform the House, given that this has nothing to do with the traditional procedure and what we know, that my group will vote only one candidate, in the expectation that the three groups in the House are represented in the delegation of Greece in Madrid. It's just that this may also be behind the suspicions that were in the previous question. We are going to vote for the candidate who, of course, made public in the Register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u125	It seems to me magnificent but, in any case, or always: one Member, one vote. We're back to what we were at first; so much time for this. [[Murmurs.]] I mean, we have to write a name each. Let's get started. Madam Secretary, please proceed to the call, if not, we don't get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u126	Everyone has voted. Perfect. [[Proceeding to scrutiny.]] [[Pause.]] The voting was as follows: votes in favour of D. Gonzalo Caballero Miguez, 14, votes in favour of Da Ana Pontón Mondelo, 19; and votes in favour of D. Diego Calvo Pouso, 41. So they're our representatives, and they're lucky for what they're doing. At the end of the vote, we continue with the non-law proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the investment of the Galician board in R+D+i and the working conditions of the investigator's staff
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u127	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u128	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all again. We're going to keep talking about the future and also about demographic impulse, as we did a moment ago. Betting on science, research and innovation is an emergency; I think that formally -- at least you can see in the speeches -- we could almost say that all of us here agree on that. But the truth is that our country has been lost for more than a decade in this matter, when it should have been and now should have been a strategic area for the social, economic and cultural development of our country. That's how they reflect it, in addition to the data. In Galicia investment in R+D+i reaches only 0.97% of the gross domestic product, far away, as we said this morning, from the percentage of investment it makes, for example, Euskadi, which leads the entire territory of the state, with 1.96%, or far from what they invest in countries like Germany -- we said in the morning-- 3.13%. That lack of investment, and even the cuts that have been going on over the last few years -- because it must be remembered that in 2008 the investment that was being made in Galicia in relation to gross domestic product in our country was 1.04%; today, I insist, it doesn't get to that -- it has reversed and lost positions in our country with respect to the countries around it. And when a rest stop while everyone moves around, what you're doing is losing positions, what you're doing is going back, not just about investment. It is that today, Galicia, our country, has fewer research programs than in 2005, after the People's Party's dismantling of programmes aimed at designing a true research career in all its stages. This is how the Albariño Angels, the Pondal Parga or Manuel Colmeiro ended, if we talk about the programs directed to personal investigators, and all the programs also designed under the Incite Plan addressed to staff, in this case, technologist, Lucas Labrada, Isabel Barretto or Eloy Luis André. The consequences of the lack of public investment, and also private -- because we are also very low on the investment of territories and countries in our environment -- along with the poor research career, have become visible in Galicia's loss of competitiveness in relation to the countries around us and also in the various international, fundamental and mainly community indicators. Galicia therefore loses public money, talent, competitiveness, and, since we speak of demographic impulse, also loses population, which develops its life plans in other countries as a result, precisely, of that precarious resources as regards investment, but also in human capital. The report -- it was cited here not much, even in this gallery -- talent flee in Galicia: myth or reality?, prepared by the Galician Economic Forum and published at the end of the year 2020, addresses precisely this problem and quantifys the projection that makes each year the cost of training the talent that has just emigrated represents a loss for Galicia between 178 and 311 million euros, in a banana that depends on the time that actually takes one person to form. And not only is this country not a place of attractive destination for researchers and researchers from other countries, but the working conditions in which the Greeks and the Greeks find themselves or intend to dedicate themselves to the production of knowledge become a career of obstacles. Investing in science, research and innovation is not a expense, but it's the best bet and the best investment we can make for the future, for any country, and our investment among them. If you just want to see knowledge in economic, monetary, and not just human, social and cultural development, we have examples in our environment that demonstrate the enormous return that has a decisive and strategic stake in R & D+i. We are talking about the Euskadi and Catalonia case, which has two of the most important programmes, not only of the state as a whole, but also in the Community field of science and research. Ikerbasque and Icrea -- they've been talked about and a lot of this in this House, with the figures published in their annual memoirs -- they're public foundations, and for every million euros invested they get a return of 1.6 and 3.7 million euros a year. If we compare it to Galicia, we see that Catalonia -- which is the one that pushes the most, I say, that for every million euros they invest have a return of 3.7 million euros -- invests twice as much as Galicia does and manages with that investment mobilizes four times as much economic resources in state calls and ten times as much in European calls. Comparatives can also be done with something that for us is very close to linguistics, culturally and also territorially, as is the northern region of Portugal. It is part of the euro area and today, contrary to what happened just over a decade ago when the University of Santiago de Compostela was the main engine of that Atlantic axis, both in the quantitative and qualitative production of scientific publications, in 2018, it placed a report of the Galega Academy of Sciences that we have already lost that capacity, that momentum, that drive for universities in northern Portugal, and in particular the University of Porto, which today leads the vanguard in that territorial space. It is neither the lack of capacity nor the lack of talent of all the people and of the institutes and research centers that Galicia has what explains this situation -- we have enough of the two, we have enough talent in our country -- it is the lack of public investment, I insist, which is far from that European average, of that objective which is set up the Union of 2.5 % of the gross domestic product; it is the precariousness and labour instability that reaches the investigator's staff in our country, due, I insist, to the absence of a research career and a program of retention and capture of strong talent -- a career that covers all phases of the training process, but also of stabilization and consolidation of researchers and researchers --. And I put specific examples of names and surnames, which they also had to do a public disclosure job of their situation to raise awareness of the whole of society, of our country, of the importance of R & D+i as a development engine. One of the people who suffers from this precariousness and work instability is one of the directors of the group who work in the Idis in our country. His name is Manuel Collado. He decided to return to Galicia -- he has a very interesting story, and he's not the only one -- with a temporary contract, which was what was offered here, leaving behind an indefinite job at the National Center -- state -- of Oncology Research. Today, he spends his life producing knowledge about stem cells, cancer and aging -- I insist, in Idis -- but signing each year a new temporary contract. And that's a huge piece, not just because anyone who has precarious and unstable working conditions has less productivity -- that's more than obvious -- but because it also represents an important piece for an economic sector such as research, science and innovation, where you have to compete with lots of centers, groups and research institutes in the world and you can't try to access funding programs that have a longer duration than your own contract lasts. That's why we today, from the BNG, bring what is meant to be a country agreement of what has been talked about both during this first day of the full; a country agreement but which is materialized in real and concrete objectives: The first is a political commitment to increase investment in a progressive manner to reach that target of 2.5 % of gross domestic product. Secondly, to design a research career for all scientific and technical personnel who develop their research in Galicia, Galician and Welsh or anywhere in the world, throughout all stages -- I insist -- both in pre- and post-doctoral training, as well as in that professional phase of consolidation and stabilization, ensuring, of course, working conditions, both labour and wages, worthy, and not that there are medical summons to 2021 where the return phase to the country has an unworthy salary cut. And thirdly, to create a talent retention and capture program that will actually allow that investigator to retain, which will enable us to create conditions that will allow us -- the value of redundancy -- to recover emigrant talent and capture researchers and researchers of excellence also for our country. If something became clear with the pandemic of cowardice, it is that countries that bet on knowledge, science, research and innovation have a greater capacity to respond to crises, but also resilience, and what they have demonstrated is that they have a greater capacity to face an unprecedented guest, like what we are living through. But also knowledge, science and research make us stronger economically, let us develop our country more and better, and we also do -- and we wanted to fake this issue -- more sovereign. Today we are importing knowledge from Germany, the United Kingdom or the United States, while exporting to those same working and working countries of science, formed with enormous economic effort by all the Greeks and the Greeks. This country cannot be allowed to continue on this path. In the BNG we are convinced that there is no future without science, but also that there is no decent working conditions without science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u129	Thank you very much. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Gallego Sanromán has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u130	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, Members and Members. The current economic crisis has its origin in a health crisis, as we all know, and the consequences on people's lives and health around the world are potentially devastating. The emergence of new activities and new forms of production obliges the public to strengthen this structural transformation. The central element of this new stage of industrial production is knowledge. It is essential to improve the efficiency of R & D+i policies, to support entrepreneurship and to stimulate organizational change and technological and infrastructure modernization. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have already brought a non-legislative proposal to this plenary in November, urging the Galician Council to develop an ambitious plan of Greek R & D+i with a greater budget allocation that will allow us to double our spending on research, development and innovation, to place Galicia on the Spanish media. We therefore proposed that mechanisms should be put in place to encourage private participation in the general innovation system, so that their expenditure should move towards 1.5% of gross domestic product. The expenditure in Galicia in relation to GDP is 0,97 %, compared to 1,25 % in Spain and 2,18 % in Europe. In Galicia we have to build a new growth model for our land, devoting to R & D+i 1.5% of the German GDP. This can be accomplished in two budgetary exercises. But for this to be so, the Galician Union must support the field of R & D+i, increasing much more that match in the budgets of the next two years. If anything shows this crisis of coward-19, it's the importance of betting on research. Research has the capacity to respond to the right guarantees and to the great problems of the world in which we live. The Socialist Group is committed to reducing the bureaucratic burden of carrying out research projects, increasing the number of pre- and post-doctoral contracts and providing stability to the research career. The importance of researchers and postdoc researchers in the R & D+i system is indisputable, since they consist of a highly trained staff, with the experience needed to carry out research activities with autonomy, resulting in high productivity and generate high value added knowledge and an important economic and social return. In the last call for pre-doctoral and post-doctoral aid published in January together by the Council of Culture, Education and University and the Second Vice-Presidentship, it seems that Junta follows a strategy that seeks to dismantle the main program of uptake of doctors and doctors in our community, instead of making a firm bet for this postdoc research profile that guarantees the return of public investment and strengthens the competitiveness of the German research system. [[Applause]] The Galician Union introduces a series of changes in the call for support aid to the postdoc training phase, equivalent to the old mode A, which are harmful to those and applicants with respect to previous calls, significantly impair their working conditions and discourage the attraction of talent and the consolidation of the research career in Galicia. This is a comparative aggravating for candidates, and it places them at a disadvantage with the investigator's staff who got these same help during the years 2012 and 2019. It is important to stress that the Galician Union did not call for this aid in the year 2020, a real shame! A real shame! And, as BNG's voicer well said, the flight of talent costs Galicia 300 million a year, no less! [[Applause]] 300 million a year! Our parliamentary group has presented a number of initiatives on the research career in which we are legislating, demanding the job improvement of researchers and researchers and demanding the Galician Junta to urgently resolve postdoc contracts and staff contracts from health foundations. These foundations are another example of how Galician Union cares little about research. The templates of the three Greek health research foundations have been negotiating their work agreement with the Health Council for two years to resolve their precarious working situation. Some researchers from the Galicia South Biomedical Foundation have been chaining their contracts for a decade, one after another. Another shame! Another shame! Even the Board of Auditors in its report ditamines that are included in Sergas' budgets these biomedical foundations and thus facilitate its control. But, of course, it's not meant to be done because otherwise, the wage and labor conditions of researchers from these foundations, which are bad. These conditions are bad! From our group we have been complaining for these months that an agreement worthy of biomedical foundations which collects wages equal to researchers and researchers from other institutions or companies is immediately signed. Mr. Feijóo's government has to dignify the great work of researchers and researchers. You have to dignify your work now. [[Applause]] These two matters are of interest to the Galician Board of Inquiry: nothing at all, nothing at all! Moreover, Mr. Feijóo's government hasn't even met with them, who've been asking for the meeting for months, but, well, they're above good and evil. The Government of the People's Party has to stop saying that Galicia is the autonomous community that best treats researchers. That's not true. Stop fooling them, because we've just seen two examples of how the research staff in Galicia works in precarious ways and with inescapable work instability. I-na-su-mi-ble! Together you have to bet on a model that prioritizes R & D+i, and more at the moment, where the economy will depend on innovation and research. The German government has to push research and innovation, otherwise we'll still be the last in R+D+i. So, while other communities have moved forward a lot, ours is behind us. This reflects the comparison with northern Portugal or the average of other autonomous communities. The index setting the European Union sinks Galicia to item 189 of the 231 regions analysed, losing 24 posts, and with the qualification of a moderately innovative region. Investment in R+D+i fell by 6 % in 2019, by 6.1% less than in 2018, according to the balance sheet published last December by the National Institute of Statistics. The upward trend and the goal of recovering levels prior to the double recession are broken. In 2008 the Greek companies mobilized for the first time more than a billion euros for innovation, and in 2015 they scored their minimum, with 466 million. Do you know who was ruling in 2008? And do you know who ruled no 2015? You're already answering yourself. [[Applause]] We have to bet on an innovative Galicia, with concrete commitments and real progress, or we will lose the battle of the future. I imagine from the People's Party bench they'll say that the Galician Innovation Agency has greatly increased the budget by 25%. Anyway, this increase is still very, very insufficient, and then we expect it to be executed, because we remember that in Galicia the games devoted to research and development are the ones that accumulate most delays in execution, or directly not executed. Research and development are the worst-running scope of the Feder. The European Union has already warned the Union: it is necessary to increase the rate of execution of expenditure and to intensify the dynamisation of private investment, which combines public aid in research, development and innovation projects. They were very clear, gentlemen of the People's Party and ladies of the People's Party. I'm done. In the current scenario of economic crisis resulting from cowardice, part of the European reconstruction funds Next Generation will be oriented to projects linked to the digital and technological transformation of our economy and tractor projects to activate the change of production model. Irreparably the bet on R+D+i will be the bet on the country's future, and Galicia must not even stay behind. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs Gallego. [[One person from the House's cleaning services comes to disinfect the floor.]] The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vázquez Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Gallego, you know that the year 2020 was a year immersed in a pandemic; it's that I think you already don't know, because you're here to make it obvious that researchers couldn't develop their activity and that the Education Council extended the said contracts... I think you're going to clear a... I think you're completely obvious a solution that was given to these researchers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know... this government's commitment has been to approve the summons as soon as possible and recently in the last few days, so the approval was made. Mrs. Rodil, in front of her catastrophic report, there are always international data and classifications that place our university, the University of Santiago de Compostela, among the best in the world, highlighting the research performance and employability as the two most valued aspects of the University of Santiago de Compostela. The reality is that the policy of support for R & D+i consists of a strategic area of the Government of Galicia in the last decade, both in the sphere of action in the different areas of government as well as in its whole. The data referred to by the spokespersons who preceded me in the use of the word is collected in the Cotec 2020 report, but they have obtained information that needs to be placed on the table to contextualize what situation we are in. Since 1996 the situation of R & D+i in the national territory, through the analysis of the main national, autonomous and international indicators, marks trends over the next few years and indicates that Spain has significant deficiencies in many of these areas compared to Europe. In the analysis disaggregated by autonomous communities, we get the data that investment in R & D, in relation to gross domestic product, is located in Galicia by 0.98%, compared to 1.24% of the national average; position that puts us below average, but above all nine other communities such as Valencia, Asturias or Cantabria. Another indicator of R & D relevance is the percentage of staff involved in R & D tasks relative to the total of the occupied population. At this point we reached 0.98%. We're closer to the national average, which is 1.5%. When the analysis is of trends, the position with respect to other communities is even better, and that's where opposition groups are not making reference. In this regard, the study also analyzes the evolution of R & D investment following the economic crisis, comparing what each autonomous community invested in R & D in 2018 with its respective historical peak. In this paragraph, eight autonomous communities were counted that exceeded the investment levels in 2018 with respect to any other, including the Autonomous Community of Galicia, along with other communities such as the Basque Country or Valencia. Finally, the trend analysis also studies the population occupied in R & D tasks, and, in this case, only three territories have more personnel in R & D in 2018 than in 2009, among which again Galicia is located, together with communities such as Madrid or Catalonia. I have already concluded the study analysis by pointing out that, although Galicia's situation is improved, it is placed in all indicators in a better position than most communities, and it improves the results with regard to the situation prior to the economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote against this non-law proposal, not without explaining each of the points. You will understand that what your lords are asking for on this initiative is already being done by the Government of Greece, or steps have already been taken for some time to achieve its execution. Before they question the data I'm going to report in my explanatory statement, I already indicate that they come from the National Institute of Statistics. Look, ladies and gentlemen, research and development expenditure increased in Galicia in 2019 by 6.2 %, compared to 4.2 % of Spain's total, reaching 627.3 million euros. With regard to the staff employed in R & D, the figure reaches 11.085 people, representing an increase of 4.3%, exceeding the average of the state, which was 2.5%. The incorporation of women into R & D+i activities represents 41.20 % compared to 40.62 % at the national level. Galicia, in the last legislation, has increased investment in R & D by 24.5%, 7 points more than the average state, which is 17.44%. The wager of the German Government in this matter is unquestionable, as is the private sector's wager, with an R & D investment of 53%. I'm talking about unquestionable, because since the creation of the Galician Innovation Agency in 2013, the Agency's budget has been rising to nearly EUR 127 million for this year 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not only take into account the budgets of the Galician Innovation Agency because, as I said at the beginning of my intervention, the investment of the German Government in R & D implies other departments. In other words, the programmes of the councils such as Vice-Presidentship Second, the programmes for the rural environment, the sea, education and health reach the figure of EUR 245 million for the year 2021. Today, the procedure for the approval of the budgets of our autonomous community for this year 2021, with the popular party's vote and with the vote against the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party of Galicia, has been completed. By often analyzing the partial amendments of the opposition groups, it is paradoxical, Mrs. Gallego, that calls for more involvement of the Greek Government in this area, while you and your group intend to diminish the departure of the Galician Innovation Agency to increase the game of incentives to renewable energies; fully respectable game for your policy, Mrs. Gallego, but do not intend to deceive us, because, when you have the opportunity, you remove the scissors to cut into R & D+i. As for the second point of its resolution, Mrs. Rodil, as I have already commented at the beginning of my intervention, it is not only the Galician Innovation Agency that you invest in R & D+i, but also the different departments that make up the German Government. Therefore, coordination of the various councils of the Galician Union is needed to enhance and coordinate the research and innovation of our autonomous community. At the beginning of November, the German Government anticipated. This coordination was anticipated in the creation of an interdepartmental commission to improve the coordination of the various departments of the Greek Government with the aim of planning the objectives, carrying out the projects and running the available funds, achieving greater efficiency and strengthening the innovative ecosystem of Galicia. The creation of this commission will have different functions, among which are the identification of synergies between the various councils and avoid overlaps; the drive to recruit staff investigators; also to address the study of regulatory changes in this issue and develop an integral command box in R+D+i; or even to participate in the implementation of projects or to encourage the regulatory simplification so claimed by citizenship. Mrs. Rodil, in your proposal, calls for a program of retention and talent capture. You're asking for this program because you probably don't know what programs the Government of Galicia has. You talked about the programs you used to rule. Now, from -- let me talk, because I didn't interrupt it when I was in the debate --...the year 2014, the talent retention and capture program, which you called, the Opportunius program, a program marked -- in seven years -- for the collaboration of the Galician Council with the Galician University System, with the participation of the major research agencies at universities, foundations and health institutes and with the Higher Council of Scientific Research, with the aim of helping the researcher's staff to develop a successful career in Galicia. [[Mrs. Rodil Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Since its start-up, thirty high-impact projects developed by Galicia and mobilized 31.2 million euros, generating about 100 jobs. But this is not the only program set in motion by the German Government. As far as the competences of the Council for Culture, Education and University are concerned, specific programmes are being developed to capture, train and retain the research talent in university education with the objective, more than nothing, of consolidating a sound university research structure that moves towards standards of excellence and competitiveness in international education. Today, Galicia has its own model based on the structures created within universities, which since the Council are supporting and encouraging through the aid to the research career, which has been talked about here, and the formative stages of post-doctoral and pre-doctoral training, with a new call for the year 2021, which recently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u134	...was approved with the launch of a hundred and seventy-five new contracts and a departure of 18 million euros. I could comment -- but my time is running out -- numerous programs, such as the Senior Talent, the co-financing of Ramón and Cajal programs, the Beginning programs, the programs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u136	... of joint research units, etc., but, ladies and gentlemen, it has to be said that Galicia has been able to maintain its support for research throughout the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u137	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u138	I've detailed programs, measures and resources, because the capture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u139	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u140	...the training and retention of talent means a key area of the Government of Greece, which aims to attract and develop human resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u141	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u142	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u143	Mr Rodil Fernández has the floor for the draft non-legislative Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u144	Thank you, President First of all, I also wanted to thank you for the support of the Socialist Party. Mrs. Vázquez, look, I'm going to give you the reason for something, in which, yes, Junta is developing its own model, no doubt, that's true: unique, unrepeatable and disastrous, that no one can copy it. Now we're talking about some of the programs. [[Applause]] To me the Opportunius--I screamed at him there from the chair; I didn't cook my ass in the chair, I must recognize him; but, when I arrived at this hour and the time we've been here, forgive me if I also lose some composure --. You were talking about the Opportunius contracts. Do you know who can compete for that call? They're people who introduce themselves to the ERC, to the Europeans, to the most powerful. You have to go with more than a million euros under your arm. It's good to bet on excellence. We include in our initiative that we have to bet on being able to capture excellent talent. And I believe -- critically, observing, for example, the Catalan model, the case of Icrea -- that focus very much on that excellence. There is a part of all the creation of knowledge, of scientific production, which may have a smaller application immediately, which is that basic science, but which is essential for developing these other programs and these other researches. You have to bet on those ERCs and why they're more than a few that's able to attract that Opportunius program in our country. But we cannot focus all the research policy alone on professionalization and professional stabilization in such programs. I invite you, really, to contrast it with the researchers and researchers of the centers, the research institutes of the Greek university system, with the Welsh research network, with Research, and to make their own evaluation -- because they live in the very skin -- of the disaster that represents that program and which is not useful if we don't build the foundation of the Greek research and scientific fabric. Secondly, it was mentioned here that there was no call for post-doctorals by 2020 for a pandemic. The pandemic is global and we all agree that it doesn't just affect Galicia; the pandemic is global. Well, as the European Marie Curie have called in time and form, the bathtubs have called in time and form, the state summons have also come out in time and form; which does not come out: the political will of the People's Party and the Government of Galicia to do things right. Everyone -- and we said it many times -- we understood that the situation was absolutely exceptional, with the paralysis of administrative activity, especially in the first months of confinement, and that confinement itself in the first wave of the virus would take things away. [[Applause]] That was obvious. But -- and I said it on one occasion in the committee debate -- you, with Marie Curie -- who came out of the call and could introduce herself to anyone who wanted to -- you could go to Afghanistan. The problem wasn't the virus or the mobility difficulties, because all post-doctoral calls that exist abroad, abroad, in other parts of the world, were called. They are cheap excuses to leave a year blank, and I still wonder today where is that money that was planned for the 2020 budgets -- budgeted and collected in the accounts -- and that they were destined for that call. Because, in fact, the contracts signed in the previous summons, in the previous mode A. But there were doctors and doctors who obtained, deposited and defended their thesis that year. That also stole the ability and the possibility of people who were already out of the doctorates so that they could start this second formative stage, the first step towards that professional who are the postdoctorals. There will be time to speak long and stubbornly of that callous disaster. I insist that the wages are cut, the salaries of that personal investigator for his return to Galicia after a stay in a foreign country. It's good that we bet our researchers and researchers get out and take good working conditions out, but at least when they get back here, if we want them to stay, at least they can count on a wage pay which allows you to develop a minimum life plan. There was a part of his intervention -- and I don't get much longer -- that I didn't understand. I don't think it was quite clear to you what we were proposing, that it was actually to design this research career. We -- perhaps because we have defended him on other occasions -- actually, we defend the creation of a Galega Science Agency to end that fragmentation and atomization of what you were talking about. In fact, here, the entire policy on R & D+i is divided between the Education Council and the Greek university system, GAIN, the Vice-Presidentship -- today, Innovation and Industry Council -- the part that has to do with ACIS, Sergas and biomedical foundations, which, as we were saying, are, in addition to many...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u146	...untransparent, very opaque, large precarious elements. You will vote -- with this ending -- what they consider appropriate; they will vote against and we will bring back. I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u148	...this is a central issue for the present and future of this country, and we are untiring. That's what I think they already know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2021-01-26-DSPG021.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
