ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e28	The President will propose that the public gallery of infectious diseases be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Since this is the first day of the meeting of the new year, the President will take the opportunity to wish the representatives, the members of the government, all the employees and all those associated with the Stortinge in their work a really good new year. The representatives Anne Kristine Linnestad and Une Bastholm, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The called alternate for Eastfold, Bears Laabak, is now taking the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is a letter to Stortinget, dated 22 December 2021, concerning changes in the ministerial structure and division of responsibilities between departments. Having regard to the Royal Resolution, ‘The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs changes its name to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. The abbreviation is AID. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion takes over the Department of Integration in the Ministry of Knowledge. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries is run by two constitutionally responsible state councils. The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries shall take over the Department of the Coastal and Environmental Affairs of the Ministry of Transport, with the exception of those parts of the department responsible for coordinating the Ministry of Transport's work on environmental and climate issues. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries also assumes responsibility for the management of the State’s ownership of Equinor ASA and Petoro AS, the mission management of the State’s direct financial involvement in the petroleum sector and the provisions of Equinor ASA from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. [[GASPS]] The Minister for Fisheries and the Sea is responsible for fisheries and maritime affairs, including the responsibility for fisheries and aquaculture policy, the maritime food policy and the underlying establishments and related activities in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. The Minister for Fisheries and the Sea is responsible for the Maritime Research and Innovation Policy, the Ocean Space Centre and the Maritime Department. The Minister for Fisheries and the Sea is also responsible for coordinating the commitment to green shipping. The Minister for Fisheries and the Sea is also responsible for the work on coastal management, including tasks transferred to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries from the Ministry of the Ministry of Transport. The Minister of Industry shall be responsible for all other responsibilities of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The Minister of Economic Affairs also has the administrative responsibility for the remuneration and operating budget of the entire department, including employment matters in the department and in the department. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will change its name to the Ministry of Local and District Affairs. The abbreviation is KDD. The Ministry of Culture will change the name of the Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality. The abbreviation is still KUD. In the course of the amendments, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the two Councils of State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries have administrative responsibility for laws in accordance with the Annex to the Resolution. Ministrys are delegated powers to make changes to agreements, regulations, instructions, etc. which is a necessary consequence of the changes. The delegation of power by the King under the second paragraph of Section 11-1 of the Petroleum Act established by Royal Resolution of 17 December 2004 is hereby repealed. All amendments shall be made with effect from 1 January 2022.» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e83	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e88	On behalf of Morten Wold, Roy Steffensen, Sivert Bjørnstad, Silje Hämdal, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal to lift a national ban on donning restaurants. This is about ordinary people and businesses that are about to end – people are outlawed. Therefore, I would like to ask primarily that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(d) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that it be discussed at the end of today's meeting. Subsidiary I would suggest that it be dealt with according to § 39(c), i.e. that it be provided for transparency for one day and thus dealt with in tomorrow's meeting. I hope that the President will be present when it comes to the procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e97	The representative, Mr Rauand Ismail, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e102	On behalf of the representative Rasmus Hansson and myself, I would like to make a proposal to cancel the national outburst for the outdoor industry. We request that the proposal be examined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 39c.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e109	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that voting in case No will be called. 3 on today's map, Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e127	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Espen Barth Eide, Anette Trettebergstuen and Sandra Borch will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e136	In order for Norway to achieve its climate objectives, to enable the new power-intensive industry and to have sufficient and reasonable access to electricity for households and business, it is essential to develop more renewable energy. The maximum potential is within the sea wind on Norwegian pedestal. At the same time, the actors to expand offshore wind power believe that hybrid grid solutions are a prerequisite for expanding e.g. Southern North Sea II. In recent weeks it has become clear that there is a great deal of disagreement within the government on hybrid cables. At the same time, it is urgent to clarify the framework conditions for the development of sea winds, so that southern North Sea II and Utsira Nord can be realised by 2030, or at any time in the past. My question therefore goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment: Is the Council of State concerned that a delay in the development of sea wind due to disagreement within the government could weaken Norway's ability to achieve Norway's climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e143	The answer – to a good question – is that I would be concerned if there was a hint of delay, but on the contrary, the Constitutional Council of State Marte Mjøs Persen sits and attaches great importance to the development of a sea wind strategy that aims to enable Norway to build this both as an industrial potential and to contribute to an increase in power from what could become one of the most important sources of the future. Then it is about getting a much higher rate of concessional treatment than what was available under the former government, strengthening the administrative apparatus to do so, implementing the many decisions that need to be made, and clarifying against other industries, so that we can expand sea winds on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e148	I fully agree that it must be part of a larger North Sea cooperation. There are a lot of exciting things going on in our neighbouring countries now. On the part of my party, we have long argued that we want to build a kind of North Sea network that can connect both consumers and producers of power together, and that it should be a neutral network, just like we have a neutral network in Norway, Statnett, which treats the producer and the consumer of energy. But there is no doubt that if we are to achieve both climate objectives and meet the current crisis in a good way, we need a strong expansion of sea winds, and, of course, a backbone is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e151	It is very good that the government is concerned with exploiting the potential that lies in sea wind. It's an ambition we share, and it's also shown by the energy message that the previous government put forward. But is the answer from the Council of State to understand that there is no disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre as to whether new sea winds should be built with hybrid cables or whether there should only be radials to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e156	This matter is the intention of the government to come back to the great work that we are now doing with a future energy commission, but also in the ongoing work on the development of sea wind. I have not experienced anything until today that suggests that we do not have a high pressure on it. On the contrary, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is working hard and well, supported by other departments, to clarify a number of issues related to how we can get sea wind up both as an energy source and also as an industrial effort – which is perhaps the best way to fill workshops and yards around Norway as the further development of the oil and gas industry will gradually decline due to natural changes in demand. For us, it is very important that we view this both as an industrial effort and as an energy policy commitment, and it is absolutely right that it is difficult to see profitability in the marine wind in the market if the power is just going to go into the mainland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e161	There will be follow-up questions – first Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e166	I feel that I am not getting an answer to my question. Is there any disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre as to whether to connect sea wind systems to hybrid cables or whether there should be only radials to Norway? And can the Council of State guarantee that the framework conditions for the development of sea winds will be clarified in the supplementary communication to the Energy Communication presented to the Stortinget, hopefully before Easter?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e171	Apart from the fact that I have not intended to guarantee anything in the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State, I can say that I have great confidence that my colleague responsible for this, and an overall government, will give a good answer to it when we have been through the necessary treatment – which we want to have as soon as possible. It is absolutely right that we have made a point that we do not withdraw the energy message, which has many good sides, and which came from the previous government, but will come with an additional message, and this is a completely natural theme there. There is nothing to suggest to me today that there should be some problems with the goal of providing an answer to this when we get to Stortinget – and the answers come when we submit the supplementary message. But it is absolutely central that there is a race out there to build sea wind both as a source of energy and also as an industrial effort. It will simply be a tragedy if Norwegian business did not take a large part of it, and it obviously requires a close link to what is also happening outside Norway’s borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e176	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e182	I can't interpret the Council's response any different than the fact that the Council of State is clear that we need to have a hybrid network in order to have the wind power development necessary both to reduce emissions on the base and to support under emission cut and industrial development here in Norway – and expect it to be followed up when the Appendix to the Energy Communication is presented. I have a question about that we need the wind to bring down the emissions on the base. Power from land is one of the projects to bring them down, which is also controversial, we need sea wind for it as well. But there's another moment, and there's the possibility of having local carbon capture and storage in connection with the platforms. It's not really put a lot of pressure on it, but it's also part of a solution. The Council of State agrees that more emphasis is also needed to cope with emissions cuts of 50 pst. on the base?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e189	I thank you again for a good question. We have to use all possible means, because we have a huge task ahead of us – not just the government, but the Stortinget and the whole of AS Norway – to actually meet the climate goals that we have now set ourselves, which are anchored in the form of law. It is up to any government to meet the climate objectives under the Climate Act, and then one cannot skip to look at what is happening in oil and gas production. We have experience from, among others: The drag field, where there's already been carbon capture and storage for 25 years, I think it is. So we know that it works. If it is an alternative also to operate local carbon capture related to the gas turbines, I believe it is absolutely necessary to look at it as part of a complete picture. This is a question that is the sum of many different issues, and I really want to warn all parties against making this whole discussion about electrification a question about hybrid networks or not, because there is one of a number of questions that need to be resolved, and that is what we intend to do in the supplementary message that my competent colleague Mjøs Persen is working very hard to get out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e196	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e201	After the coup d'état, today's Finance Minister, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, was outside and said that one had to remember that the politicians were their citizens' servers. It may seem that the government has forgotten that we are going to be their servers for managing power prices in this country. Norway is in a serious power situation, with sky-high power prices. People are at home and freezing, and business wears off. Last few days ago, the Minister of Oil and Energy confirmed that the prices of electricity could last, with double-price in winter and perhaps worse. The signatures have made suggestions on behalf of the Progress Party to stop the power cables abroad, regulate the export of power, stop the electrification of the socket, reverse the grid rental model and reduce it. At the same time, we see a serious power crisis in Europe that has been the result of failed climate and environmental policies, where Norway is now operating as a European battery. Now the government and the Right will also electrify the socket, send the power out of the country, the gas to Europe and burn it there, but here the gas cannot be used. Sea winds are also planned. There is great fear in, among other things, one of the country's most important industries, the fishing industry, which fears the destruction of important fishing grounds. The sea is one of the blue food chambers of the future, and here there are great possibilities for growth and development. My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Can the State Council explain the environmental impact by electrifying the socket, and how can the government implement a policy that sends the bill to Norwegian consumers and businesses, with sky-high power prices, which this measure could entail?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e212	It's an interesting question from the Progress Party, because very much of the policy we're currently running was led by the Progress Party for seven full years. It was the opposition that made sure that we didn't build another power cable to the rest of the world, which the Progress Party in its reign wanted, namely the NorthConnect cable. So to the direct question, which I understood as how to explain the environmental impact of electrifying the socket. It is simply so that when you replace electricity produced with gas with electricity produced cleanly, you get lower emissions from that production. Since all gas goes to Europe, which has a very proactive strategy for decarbonisation, and which takes more and more allowances out of the quota system, it is beyond doubt that electrifying the socket has an effect on the climate. I think that is professionally indisputable, although I know that someone repeats those questions despite the fact that they receive answers each time they ask the same question. Then, of course, there's another question as to whether it's the right climate policy in relation to other choices. It's a real and sensible discussion we're going to have, but problematizing whether replacing fossil power generation with clean power generation is a climate action, I think is not a particularly fruitful way to go. In terms of electricity prices in general, we're once again on the constitutional responsibility of another government council, but I think I can say on behalf of a total government that we have a very big focus on bringing down the electricity prices. That is why we have implemented a completely innovative and new scheme to pay most of the increase that comes beyond 70 cents through these tough winter months. We've put down the web lease, and we've done a number of other grips that also hit specific groups, precisely because we're concerned about how this hits ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e221	I noticed that government councils were talking about previous cabling, and then they were wondering how one of them could work on building so-called hybrid cables, when it comes to sea wind, to the base, to Europe and to the mainland in a situation where one might actually have too much power to export abroad. How can the government, in a situation where the power plant right now is at 57 pst. and with a force balance approaching zero in 2026, continue to plan cables abroad, which such a hybrid cable could host?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e228	At least I can see that the Progress Party has turned 180 degrees around in relation to the energy policy they led when they had the opportunity to actually control, because then they had roughly diametrically opposite positions. The traces of it we see in a lot of today's power policy, so I just have to repeat that that's how the Progress Party operates when they actually have power. They have slightly different positions when they don't have power, and we just have to take that with us. I refer to my answer to the representative Astrup: The point of expanding sea winds is to produce more power. So there will be more power in the market, and a lot of that power will of course also be used in Norway, or for electrification of the socket. Then there is a question that is secondary to how these cable systems should be arranged, whether there should be radials or whether it should be linked across the North Sea. We will answer that properly, with good investigations at the bottom, when we come up with the supplemental message. But I think it might be a good idea to take on that it's not the cable's fault that there's a power crisis in Europe. It's the whole market that we've been part of for decades, which now has extremely high prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e235	There will be follow-up questions – first Marius Arion Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e240	The price of climate allowances affects all eligible industries that have CO 2 emissions. Norwegian hydropower does not have this effect, but is still affected by European power cooperation. Europe has phased out a lot of regulated nuclear power and has had to set up oil power plants, coal power plants and gas power plants to avoid collapsing. Climate allowances have tripled in 2021. Last March, climate quotas stood for 30 p.m. of the total price per megawatt of gas. Norway has almost 100 pst. clean, renewable hydropower, and we've had it for decades. Therefore, I ask: can the Council of State explain the rationale for and the reason why sky-high climate quotas in Europe affect emission-free Norwegian power and control this price?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e248	The high price of allowances in the European allowance market is a misguided policy because it is intended to make fossil solutions more expensive so that renewable solutions are relatively cheaper. There is no doubt that over time it stimulates investment in fossil-free solutions, because there is no fossil-free solution, nor does it pay the quota price. With regard to the electricity price, it is in a market that we agreed in the early 1990s that we should fully integrate into the Nordic region, and then the Nordic region has since joined Europe, gradually, from the 1990s onwards. That's why we have a price picture that's not equal across European countries, but it's similar to what it was before. Then, of course, the increased price infects us, just as the lower price also infects us. Last year we had the lowest power prices ever. This year they're particularly high, and this is going to vary more. We should remember that Norway largely lives by exporting both gas and electricity. AS Norway makes a lot of money on these high prices, but then we have a distribution policy problem that remains to be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e257	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e263	Exchanges of power between Norway and the continent may remind you of a splinter layer where everyone was supposed to bring something, and one of the invited took his brother with him. ACER stands for the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators, i.e. the Agency for Regulatory Cooperation. Norway has joined ACER. ACER develops guidelines for the power market. If there is disagreement between countries as to how to interpret the rules, Acer shall be able to take decisions. There will hardly be any agreement between countries as to whether new power cables should be built. Does that mean that ACER can force Norway to build power cables that neither government nor big business wants? Or can Norway override the guidelines set by ACER, as it appears in the Hurdal platform, where does the government claim that it is refusing new power cables?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e268	The President records that many of the questions asked to the Council of State do not relate to his constitutional responsibility, but he chooses even if he wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e273	Thank you for that clarification, for almost all the questions should have gone to the oil and energy minister, but now I'm here. This question was addressed in depth when the Stortinget joined a proposal by the then oil and energy minister from the Progress Party on joining the Acer. I can also refer the representative to many good contributions from his own party in dealing with that matter, as they answered that very question very clearly. It is completely crystal clear and raised beyond any doubt that there is no authority of Acer to instruct land to build cables they will not build. There is an agreement between two countries. A cable necessarily goes between two countries, and the governments of the two countries have to decide for themselves whether they want that cable. If you don't want it, it won't be built either. That's what it is today, and that's what it's going to be in the future. It follows directly from the EU Treaties, because the type of authority that exists in each country, both as a Member State and as a non-member country, is what we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e280	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e285	I want to ask the Minister of Culture a question. Unfortunately, we have come into a situation where infectious diseases have once again hit cultural life hard. Many cultural actors are now expressing great uncertainty about the future and how the various support mechanisms for cultural life will meet them and ensure that they have something to live with and that they can communicate culture to the people. The cultural industry is a major industry, with many jobs now at risk. The compensation scheme, as formulated today, includes, inter alia: an aid ceiling of 3,5 million. kr, intends to meet several cultural actors. It will hit several of the smaller actors around the country, but for the larger actors, this ceiling is impossible to live with. From the beginning of the pandemic until mid-December, the Folketing Theatre and Scenekvelder have worked for over 700 cultural workers. Only since the introduction of the disease protection restrictions and until the New Year did they lose 26 million. kr. What does the Council of State think of the National Ethics as the scheme does not take a large cultural workplace for more than 350 practitioners and subcontractors? I have understood that it is a goal for the Council of State to stimulate as much activity as possible despite the measures taken to prevent infection. On what basis can large workplaces such as the Folketheatret engage in activity as long as the incentive scheme is based on a discretionary assessment by case handlers in the Culture Council? How are Folketing Theatres and Scenefields based on these assumptions going to guarantee over 350 people that they have a job to go to? If you receive support from the incentive scheme, you will only be paid 70 pst. the amount of the allocation. The remaining 30 pst. you get paid if there is enough money in the pot. I believe that all artists, actors, musicians, dancers and technical staff should accept to reduce their salary by 30 pst. if the organiser initiates events?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e296	There were more questions here. I think I'll start with the first. It's true, as the representative Lie says, that this government has been committed to making better and more striking compensation schemes for cultural life. That is why we have also changed the compensation mechanism that is now being consulted in order to make it more effective. It's also the feedback from the wide-ranging layer of cultural life. I'm glad. The ceiling on how much support you can get out of the scheme must go somewhere. It's true, as the representative says, that the ceiling is set to 3.5 million. kr, but there is a ceiling applicable for each compensation period, and in the proposed scheme the compensation period is set at two months. In practice, this means that during an entire year — if the compensation scheme lasts for so long — an organiser or a subcontractor may be compensated for by 21 million. NOK 10,5 million. kr for six months. So it's not that a single actor should last the entire period of the compensation scheme, can only be compensated for 3.5 million. kr. I understand very well that for some very large actors, that roof may be perceived as restrictive, but this is a system that is significantly better than the one that the previous government set up for cultural life. It will hit most, and everyone here will be well compensated for the losses they will have as a result of the coronary restraints.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e305	The aim of the incentive scheme is to keep more cultural workers in work by implementing events even if they are in deficit due to restrictions. The intention of this is good, and for those who get money, this is a good arrangement. The main problem for many actors is that the incentive scheme is not rights-based. The incentive scheme represents a great unpredictability for both organisers and subcontractors and thus works against their purpose – organisers will rather cancel than gamble on the arrival of the aid. Does the Council not want the aid scheme to create activity in the cultural industry, even if we are in a pandemic? Isn't this the whole point of cultural support?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e310	It is true that we want as much as possible within cultural life to be kept going, and that people can be kept at work – that activity can be planned even when unfortunately we have to have infectious diseases rules that reduce the possibility of bringing people together. That is why these two mechanisms — the compensation mechanism and the incentive mechanism — need to be seen in the context. The compensation scheme compensates for scaled-down or cancelled events, and then we have the incentive system to just back up and give cultural life a boost in order to plan activities. These two schemes are completely different in nature — obviously — but the experience after almost two years of pandemic and with different variants of aid schemes is that the incentive scheme has worked well and has now been reintroduced. I hope and believe that cultural life will invest in and take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e315	There will be follow-up questions – first Grunde Almeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e320	Many cultural businesses had to undergo major changes during the pandemic. The last round of closure has re-launched the cultural sector in a difficult situation that forces new conversion measures. A practical example of this is the individual enterprises that have changed the form of association through the pandemic and become a limited liability company. Several such enterprises have been refused aid from the compensation scheme and it is clear that these fall between two chairs when it comes to historical requirements to be eligible for aid. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State in its answer to written questions from the undersigned wants to open up to adjust the date of registration in the register of units to 1 October 2021. I also interpret the answer so that it opens up so that the companies that have been refused the aid will now be able to reconsider their case. However, shortly after the said response became public, I received concerns messages from companies that believe this date does not take into account the last round of shutdowns and conversions, i.e. after 1 October. What assessments have the Council of State made to indicate that the date should be set to 1 October? Is she sure that the cultural enterprises that need support will get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e329	The dates and different rules of the compensation scheme have been set after a thorough assessment of what is appropriate. It is also the case that in order for a compensation scheme to come into force and apply, measures to protect the disease must be in place. Then I have already answered the representative on the first question of form of association. He has received an answer to that question. It will be possible to make use of the compensation scheme even in the event of a change in organisational form. The other technical questions are open to us. That's exactly why we have the compensation system out of the way to get feedback from cultural life on how this works. We are, unlike the previous government, extremely concerned to listen to. That's why I'm also going to have a big and broad meeting with all the parts of cultural life next Friday, just to get feedback on how this will meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e339	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e344	Nature is under pressure, and even the Workers' Party is aware of this, both in its work programme and in the Hurdal platform. During the previous period, the Workers' Party even noted that the protection against watercourses should not only be maintained but also strengthened. The Worker Party programme states that the potential of existing watercourses should be exploited, not in sheltered watercourses. Nevertheless, there are statements from the Workers' Party that indicate that the party has not understood what nature conservation really means. Yesterday, the Workers’ Party’s Terje Aasland said that it is natural to consider the possibilities contained in ‘protected watercourses’ – whether there is any benefit there. Then almost the programme obligations of the Workers' Party are the only ones that remain. In any case, it is difficult to see how such statements take protection of nature sufficiently seriously. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Nature and Environment is whether he can guarantee that the government will not intervene that will in any way degrade nature and protect the value of protected watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e351	I believe that the Workers' Party has a very proud tradition of balancing growth and protection. A great deal of the former nature regulation was about to create whole social contracts between what was to be built and what was to be protected. It's very strong in us, and it's very strong in the majority of the Storting. When the Stortingen dealt with this last time, it was also committed to maintaining the principle that protected watercourses are protected. At the same time, it was pointed out that the climate crisis itself can lead to new needs, for example: for flood regulation measures in certain watercourses, which would force some regulations where it had not been observed. In those situations in particular, of course, you might also think that you can take some force. This is not just what I'm saying now, as a state councillor, this is something I know that the majority of the Stortinges have said before – that you have to be able to look at it for example. will be something that has changed. It's essentially very important that you have a kind of long-term commitment. When it comes to agreements that something should be expanded, and something should be protected, it is of course serious for posterity too, and it should be taken with great caution. And of course, it may also have developed technological solutions that make you, for example: in side rivers can take water out in ways that almost do not appear in nature, and I will not exclude that in the work of the Energy Commission will also look at it, but at a general level I will say as the then Prime Minister Stoltenberg once said: the time for the large hydroelectric power plants is over. Hydropower expansion is a lot of natural interference, but they're pretty much done, so we have all the warehouses. I don't see that kind of expansion that we're going to have more of in Norway. The most important thing might be to look at, for example: upgrading existing installations and ensuring that there is sufficient water and power in them, so that we use the hydropower to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e364	Existing hydropower plants are not the protected watercourses, which are now beginning to talk about doing something about. I can agree that we are facing many crises, both the climate crisis and the power crisis, but it is worth remembering that there are a number of measures that have not been taken to improve energy efficiency. There have been many, many years since the Stortinget decided to increase the energy efficiency of construction, 10 TW, without anything happening to it, and you can upgrade existing hydropower plants. So the follow-up question is whether the Council of State can guarantee that the government will not release nature either with wind power or with hydropower, all the time it is possible to implement more gentle climate measures such as energy efficiency improvement and upgrade and maintenance of existing hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e369	Let me first make it clear that now we're actually deep into my constitutional responsibility, the protection part of this, so finally I got a question that belongs to my department! Now I responded to the protection, but I fully agree with the representative Marhaug that the most important thing we can do now is to get more out of the force we already have. The cheapest force is the one you don't use, and it's a huge potential in energy efficiency improvement, where the previous government did a lot less, I have to allow myself to say, than it talked about, and we want to get to where we can. It will be an important part of the upcoming additional message. Norway will need more power. I don't think you can make an energy economy out of the need for more power, so there's going to be new discussions about the use of nature related to wind power both at sea and – I think – to land, the further development of existing hydropower, etc. But I am concerned that, in consultation with the responsible State Council, I find the best solutions, which maximise the switch between the greatest possible force and the least possible natural intervention where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e376	There will be follow-up questions – first Sofie Marhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e381	Thank you – but, no thanks, I kept saying. You're not answering my question. The question is whether you can guarantee that before you consider at all taking advantage of sheltered watercourses, as the Workers' Party has now stated, you will meet the other requirements adopted by the Stortinge to improve energy efficiency in buildings, for example.? Are you sure you want to guarantee that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e386	Before the Council of State gets the floor, the President will only remind you that the speech is going through the President, and that we do not say 'you' to our debaters in the Chamber. It also applies in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e391	The premise for the question is a constructive idea that we have intended to get rid of sheltered watercourses. The government doesn't have any plans for that. Then I pointed out to a majority decision from the Storting that one might have to look at this related to flood protection, but there is no plan from the government that we are now discussing, which is about to ‘go ahead’, as the representative says, protecting watercourses. I fully agree that we have to – and very high on the priority list – look at energy efficiency improvement, but I don't think we have time to periodicate it so that we do one thing and then another thing. We have to look at both how we can use the force that we already have, as effectively as possible, i.e. with e.g. post-insulation of construction, more efficient ways of building and other energy saving measures, and ensuring that we can achieve as much natural further development of clean power as possible, which I believe could involve wind power, definitely at sea and perhaps also on land, and for example. the use of solar power on existing buildings, which are quite free of conflict, barge roofs, factory buildings, etc. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] But the whole of this is related.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e396	The countdown of speaking time is also valid in 2022. Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e403	I perceived the Council's answer to the questions put by the representative Marhaug as a guarantee against the policy of Red, and we might be pleased and agree on that. Then I'm a little confused, because the Council of State says that the government has no plans to look at possible power potential in sheltered watercourses, while the Workers' Party's representative, Terje Aasland, was out in the newspapers and said that there is absolutely something to consider. The Council of State may count on Right-wing support to assess precisely the prudent development of sheltered watercourses if the protection values are not compromised. With new technologies and out-of-date protective plans, it may be possible to do just that. My question is whether the Council of State intends to take a concrete initiative to identify the potential, see what is technically possible, whether it is possible to make a prudent development, to achieve more power generation without deterioration of the protection values, and perhaps also to have flood mitigation measures, or will he push on this and have an energy commission answer to it in a few years' time?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e411	Again, I notice that the Storting misses the oil and energy minister here today. Well, she's the one who's going to make the assessments that are wanted here. I believe that Terje Aasland and any other representative working on this must be able to think loudly about the future, without it reflecting on a current government plan. It is not that we are discussing today a concrete measure for the reduction of sheltered watercourses. Then I have also said in this same round that it can, for example. become necessary for flood protection, which may have consequential effects on hydropower. There may be technological solutions that will come in the future, and that will of course be part of the broad discussion. My main point is that we attach great importance to the fact that sheltered watercourses are protected for a reason, and that we enter into an overall social contract. At least there is a need to show considerable care and to understand why the measures were first taken when, if appropriate, others were taken in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e418	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e423	It's possible I have to rephrase the question. Let me make it clear that protective plans are within the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State. But – carefully – will the Council of State take an initiative to look at the potential of transforming the power potential into sheltered watercourses without jeopardising the protection values, or will the Council of State push that question into an energy commission, which can respond to it in two or three years' time?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e428	I want to say at least that the government is going to put down an energy commission in the near future, but we are not going to wait for its conclusions until we solve acute challenges that we know we have, that go both on energy saving and on increased power generation. We work on that every day. The distribution of responsibilities between my excellent colleague of oil and energy and me is that the responsibility for any initiatives to build up more power lies with her. Protective plans are with me, that's right. So that's the way we have to look at this in common. My answer to the questions was that today it is not where we have our priority, but we will look at the whole of this picture – with respect for previous decisions, but also with understanding of the challenges ahead, and new technological solutions. I would once again insist that I believe that climate change itself, with significant increases in water flow and more shock map rain concentrated over longer periods of time in the same area, is going to change quite a lot of what we're used to, and at least we have to dry up. Fortunately, the Stortinget has already said that it is topical.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e435	Birgit Oline Kjerstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e440	I am pleased that the minister says he will look at the protected watercourses with great seriousness and not jump over the protective plans that lie there, in the situation that is now. We exported 16 TWh last year, 3 TWh more than the wind power produced. There will be a very big discussion about how to fill up the European power market and what is the limit to Norwegian nature. My question is: will the Minister suggest that environmental authorities make proper analyses of the consequences of a plan to use and build up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e447	That's an excellent question, and the answer is categorical yes. I want to make sure that very thorough natural and climate assessments are made, because development can both be at risk of biodiversity and have negative climate effects in itself. It becomes a very important part of this government's desire to work very thoroughly with natural accounts and risks and to value nature. This will apply to any type of extension, whether it be cab construction, new roads and railways, wind turbines or other natural interference. That, of course, will also be part of the overall picture. What we need is to get good ways of calculating that allows us to take into account the loss of nature and the climate aspects that otherwise have positive effects, so that we get the most complete picture of how these things relate. It is a clear yes to the good question from the representative Kjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e456	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e461	The Council of State began its response earlier by referring to the balance made from a proud tradition of protection and expansion. It is important to see that the protected watercourses we have today are the result of precisely the overall view of the development and protection of the past. Then it will be completely wrong today, after the balancing has been done – we have large expansions – now again to go on the protected watercourses and expand and have hydropower expansion there. It will, of course, break with the overall assessment. I would like to ask at least: from the Council of State – who is responsible for safeguarding the values of protection: nature protection, the protection of the landscape and the protected watercourses – will he give the greatest attention to the fact that the last thing you can do is open up to the development of the protected watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e468	I'll say yes for a long time. In the large, comprehensive assessment we have to make, when it comes to meeting both a change in nature due to climate change and an increase in power needs, we need to take a number of considerations, some of which may be bad and difficult. On that list, I believe that challenging previous protection decisions should be quite low. You have to do a lot more before you get there. That is the short and concrete answer to that. The second half minute I'll use to say that some things will have changed. In the 1960s, 1970s, and in the 1980s, hydropower expansion was seen to be building heavy warehouses, and the interventions were quite large. It could be that there are technologies that are more similar to, for example, River power, as you see in other parts of the world, which will make the calculation look completely different. I don't want to rule out now that it might be relevant. I've already mentioned flood protection, which forces itself. We're going to show great respect for the social contract that occurs when you protect something and build something in another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e477	Rauand Ismail – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e483	The point of protection is that it should be permanent, because the natural values of our protected watercourses are no less now than they were 21 years ago, when Jens Stoltenberg said that the time of the large hydroelectric expansions is over. If the Workers' Party has turned around, I believe it is an earthquake for Norwegian nature protection. To abolish protection because one suddenly needs hydropower is to decide that Nidarosdom should be demolished because the politicians in Trondheim suddenly find that they need a new mall. That would never happen. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Does the Council of State think that protection no longer means permanent protection, perhaps even in more cases than those relating to our watercourses, and that people in the future have to prepare for the government's going in to remove protection areas or work around the protection areas in both this area and other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e490	I mean with all due respect that I have been involved in my answers to previous questions. I believe that great emphasis should be placed on that protection is protection, and that protection is meant for eternity. That's the short answer. Then things can happen, for example. climate change is giving completely different watercourses. There may be things that have to be looked at again, but it has to be done with great respect for the fact that it was a safeguard decision that was part of a social contract at that time. The Workers' Party created the first environmental protection ministry in the world, and ever since Trygve Bratteli's days and all the way forward, this has been important in terms of growth and protection and the balance associated with conservation of nature. It's just become more important, not less important in our thinking since then. There must always be an opening so that things cannot be done in the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, but it must be justified very well and harmonized as far as possible with the original purpose of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e497	Birgit Oline Kjerstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e502	We can't skip this with our watercourses completely. Governments are talking about the Workers' Party having a proud story. The truth is that there were popular actions and protests that pushed out these environmental concerns that came after the 1970s, with Alta expansion and martyrdom. Water power concessions for the Mardøla Rivers, Aura and Eira were to be revised now, and it has been working for 13 years to get a minimum water flow and regulation requirements for salmon, eel and eel to have living conditions in the river. It was rejected because there was a little less power generation. This is for the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, but will the Council of State ensure that we now take more account of the environment, no matter how we develop new renewable power generation? It also applies to the mountain home, the reindeer and all of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e509	I thank you for the question from the representative of Kjerstad. The answer is once again a clear yes. We're going to put more emphasis on the environment and nature in all such decisions. First of all, we want it because we think it's right. Secondly, we know a lot more about the impact of natural action now than we did a few years ago. Thirdly, we are obliged to do so internationally, for example: through the EU Water Directive, which is why we need to increase the minimum flow of water in some watercourses. We are simply obliged to do so thanks to international agreements we have concluded. At the same time, an increasing amount of water will work in the opposite direction. You're going to get less power out of it because of the constraints we have to put on it in order to have minimum water supply. At the same time, we get more extractions when it rains more and more concentrated, as it's going to do in the years to come. All these are issues that form part of a large and complex work on the further development of an energy production where we need more power – in addition to more energy efficiency – and need to take more account of nature. It is quite right that there are difficult balances, but the question was whether we would focus more on the environment, and the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e518	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e523	Now, since December 3rd, hundreds of thousands of ordinary people have been without TV content that is so important that the state pays for it through a widely supported commercial public broadcasting agreement. It was so bad enough with a Rome Christmas where over half a million households sat without sports, news and much Norwegian content on the TV screen, but in the long run this problem is much larger and very principled. Svalbard illustrates the greater problem well. This is where the whole society sits without important parts of the Norwegian public broadcaster service because Telenor actually has monopoly over the island group. The country’s many types of housing can also illustrate the problem. There are also many customers who live in places where only one network company is the only real alternative, and then it is not just to switch to another provider. Seven out of ten consumers in Norway cannot choose their own Internet service provider. Of course, the Council of State or we here at Stortinget are not going into an ongoing debate between TV 2 and Telenor, but we have to be able to believe something about the principal issues here. On the Media24 website, I read an article from the Council of State at the beginning of November. There she wrote that her message in the Nordic Council of Ministers was that the Nordic countries must stand up, stand together for freedom of expression, freedom of the press, openness and equal conditions of competition. She asked her colleagues to stand on the side of the editor-directed media in the ongoing work of the Digital Services Act in the EU. I will commend the Council of State for the commitment she has made to the international port guards. However, I miss the involvement of the Council of State in the same areas here at home, and I had hoped that we would see the same eagerness to defend the media industry at home. The question is whether she shares the concerns that the media industry has actually expressed over a longer period of time here at home with regard to the national port guards.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e534	This question began with negotiations between TV 2 and Telenor and ended up in something slightly different. I think I'll get a hold of the last one. It is quite right, as the representative Pettersen says, that we are very concerned about the functioning of the free, editorial media, both against the global, big competitors, who both govern the conditions of competition and censor content, and also the conditions of competition at home. It is such that it was the Workers' Party and the previous opposition who were concerned about how competition on the infrastructure could also create port guards' mechanisms, as the big message I don't remember right now is being dealt with in the Transport Committee a year ago. There was no previous government particularly concerned about. With regard to the ongoing negotiations between TV 2 and Telenor, which unfortunately makes very many in the Norwegian population now have no chance to see TV 2's programs on their screens, I hope the parties agree. But that's how the representative, Tage Pettersen, says: this is free negotiations between Telenor and TV 2 and absolutely nothing a minister of culture should interfere with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e541	Let me then take us to Report. St. 28 for 2020-2021, the echo report, which was dealt with in the spring of 2021, and on which the Council of State was involved. In the setting, among other things, wrote a majority of the Workers' Party, the Right and several other parties that they ‘share the concerns expressed by the media industry that consumers' access to broadband networks are increasingly establishing their own content services’, and they consider that this may be detrimental to the diversity of opinion and the free access of citizens to information. [[...]] The majority are ‘concerned about how failure to compete and the use of binding time, switching and other locking mechanisms that affect consumers hinder freedom of choice and restrict access to free information’. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the infrastructure, but what is the Minister of the Media's point of view when she sees how this turns out in practice? How will the media minister follow up that we do not have a development that affects media pluralism and citizens' free access to information in a negative direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e548	We can discuss the principle approach. It's quite right, as the representative says, that this is a problem we're dealing with. Now the echoes and the infrastructure of a specialist council other than me, but as a media minister, I am engaged in and in dialogue with the media industry continuously about the challenges they face both internationally and nationally, so these are the questions we are definitely coming back to. But it is not the case that a fundamental concern about gatekeeper mechanisms means that a minister of culture should think about or enter into free and concrete negotiations between TV 2 and Telenor, and I believe that the representative also agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e553	It opens for follow-up questions – first take Pettersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e559	Yes, I've already specified that. Foreign giants such as Netflix and HBO are growing rapidly, and that of course gives us an exciting offer, but at the same time it is also a challenge that can weaken Norwegian content and Norwegian production. It is a challenge we must at least focus on if we want a living media diversity here at home. It is problematic if distributors make – call it a – motorway to the foreign actors, while viewers need more or less maps and compasses to find out in the jungle of Norwegian content. In the class struggle on Monday, we could read that the struggle of American power agencies for remote control has become a matter in the French Parliament. They will decide on a law ban on logo buttons, to call it that, for Netflix and other foreign flow services. Does the Council of State see it as serious if our two public broadcasters do not reach the broad spectrum of the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e568	Of course, it's serious if our broad public broadcasters don't, and we're going to prevent that. What Pettersen is now addressing are issues that this government is very concerned about – unlike the previous government, which in very many areas allowed the media policy to lie down. These are questions we address and have a dialogue with the media industry about, but we also have an active position towards the processes in progress in the EU and at Nordic level. We will also come back to Stortinget – not only with these issues for discussion, but also with proposals for solutions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e573	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e578	Very many wear heavy a day. It could be worse in the future. Both the most common and the most common businesses note increased electricity prices, increased interest rates, increased taxes and taxes, and increased inflation, resulting in increased prices in the store and increased costs in the accounts. While the government continues its internal seminars with discussions going back and forth and increasingly new press conferences and press releases on how things should become or not be, we sit on the Stortinget and wait for what the government actually ends up thinking. Just before Christmas, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food sent out a press release stating that the greenhouse industry will finally receive compensation for high electricity prices. This is part of agriculture which is largely self-sufficient and which is not heavily subsidized. But according to the Norwegian Gartner Association, an average gardener will have an extra cost of 1.3 million. kr in winter due to increased electricity prices. First, the answer from the department to the industry was that the increase in the electricity price must be taken into account in the market. In understandably Norwegian, it means increasing prices of cucumbers and tomatoes for people most. Usually things are going fine, but in this situation, when all prices, interest rates, taxes and taxes go up, in the worst case it will lead to less sales, less revenues to the industry and even more difficulty in paying the electricity bill. In addition, large parts of the greenhouse industry that wish to connect to the electricity system are struggling to do so due to the capacity challenge in the system. The actors that continue to use gas experience record high gas bills and, at the top of the entire government chosen, to remove the exemption from the CO 2 tax for the greenhouse industry. An accident rarely comes alone. When will the Minister of Agriculture come to Stortinget with a matter of power support for the industry? Can we expect other measures in the future for this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e594	Thank you for the question. I can say that the government has taken the power crisis seriously, including in relation to the greenhouse industry. This is precisely why we have notified an application-based compensation scheme, which means that the greenhouse industry will also be covered by its additional electricity costs. It will come to the Stortingen in the near future. The government is now working on completing that proposition. That case has also been launched by the government as an important measure for the greenhouse industry, and I have been confirmed that the greenhouse industry has accepted it well. So I'd say this government delivered 754 million. SEK to Norwegian agriculture in the additional negotiations with the industry. This was not the previous government – and at least not the Progress Party – interested in getting hold of it. So this government is just delivering on the extra costs to which the industry has been exposed. We're going into agricultural negotiations for spring. We have said that power prices are also going to be an important and relevant topic for the job we are going to do there. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that I am proud to represent a government that really takes Norwegian agriculture seriously, which in the supplementary proposition has really shown the willingness to invest in Norwegian agriculture. We show this with appropriations in the additional negotiations, appropriations for investment aid, appropriations for the Food Authority and appropriations for the establishment of Bionova. This government really wants to bet on Norwegian agriculture, unlike the Progress Party showed its will in government, and unlike that the blue-blue government at all showed its willingness to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e605	All the nutritionists I'm talking to express the same frustration over the inertia they encounter from the government. Large parts of the gardens are unlikely to participate in the compensation scheme for enterprises since they made marginal profits in 2021. Maybe someone also seems to have to pay dividends to finance a greatly increasing wealth tax, which the Centre Party has adopted. Then at least they fall outside. So my question concerns the greenhouse industry in particular. As mentioned in the previous question, there are some actors who want to change and move from gas to electricity. The problem is that in some parts of the country there is no capacity in the network, so they simply cannot switch and use clean power instead of gas. The central party in the government has also decided that these now have to pay the CO 2 tax from next year. Will the Council provide for exemptions from the CO 2 tax for greenhouses that do not have the ability to switch by connecting to the mains power source?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e618	I would like to clarify that the government has provided a compensation scheme for the greenhouse industry of 200 million. kr – an application-based scheme – so there should be no doubt about whether the government is delivering on it. I hope that the Advance Party will also show the willingness to support it when that matter comes to the House. As regards the CO 2 tax, the previous government introduced it. This government has actually halved it, even for the greenhouse industry. I think the Progress Party has forgotten a bit of the story here, because this government has actually halved the CO 2 tax for the greenhouse industry compared to the previous government and the Progress Party has failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e631	There will be follow-up questions – first Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e636	I think the government council misinformed Stortinget, because on December 31, there was no CO 2 tax for the greenhouse industry, while it is now 10 pst. CO 2 tax for the greenhouse industry. On 22 December we could read at Nrk.no about gardeners in Ryfylke who want to go from gas to electricity, but due to capacity problems they do not get access until 2026/2027. Nevertheless, the Centre Party has introduced a fee to force them to power, which is not possible. We were not given an answer as to whether we would like to introduce exemptions for those who do not have the opportunity to switch to electricity. Then I wonder if the Central Party is going to stop by 10 pst. increase for the greenhouse industry. I also wonder whether the Norwegian Farmers' Team is wrong when they say that the introduction of this Central Party fee is a breach of the climate agreement with agriculture from 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e651	It was the previous government that announced in its budget 20 p.m. CO 2 fee. This government has said that you want 10 pst. We have also said that where we see that the CO 2 tax is going to fail, we will consider compensatory measures. There's something this government will look at. With regard to the gas-electric transition, there is a situation we see across the country – that there are major power challenges that this government is now working to address. There is no doubt that this government is taking the greenhouse industry seriously, and that this government also wants to add up to more green production. It is a clear ambition, and it is also an important measure to achieve the 50 pst self-sufficiency target.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e664	Roy Steffensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e670	It is undeniable that the levy was introduced on 1 January due to the adopted draft budget by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. That's the facts. In the fall, the Minister of Climate Change travelled to Glasgow. With him in the suitcase, he had 14 billion. kr – seven of them were found in record time. At the same time, we see that the Minister of Agriculture has had to collect $3 million. kr in taxes from the greenhouse industry. There is no doubt about who has won the internal draw in the government, and who has lost. My question is whether the introduction of this levy was something that the Minister of Agriculture fought against internally in the government by all means, and that she stood up for agriculture – or is the introduction of the planned, future increase that the Council of State seems to be a very good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e679	I think the Progress Party forgets that they have been part of a government and have been the budget partner of a government that was actually the government that doubled the CO 2 tax for a lot of business. So I would say, as I also said before, that I'm proud to represent a government that cooperates well across departments. I work well with the Minister for Climate and Environment on a number of international issues, on predatory policies, for example, and also on the level of ambition to raise Norwegian good and safe food production in the future. I'm proud to be a part of that. It seems that the Progress Party here refers to old disputes when they themselves were in government. I can confirm that this government has very good cooperation in a lot of areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e691	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e696	Happy New Year to the President and the Stortinget! I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Before Christmas, the minister went out to the VG and asked the food chain to cancel the price war on traditional groceries before Christmas. It is quick to think that it is about the incomes of farmers – that when a cabbage root costs NOK 2.90, it will weaken the income base of the farmers – but the farmers have been paid for their cabbage root while it is in the vegetable dish. Who, then, is losing on the low prices? Because these are not the food chains either. It's one of the industries that's gone very well, not least under the pandemic. They take off their margins to compete for customers, and that's what they're going to do. That's what competition is. That's what's healthy competition. It's good for us as consumers. Price cooperation that the Council of State advocates does not affect the food chain, it does not affect agriculture, but it affects us as consumers. It's people who are losing the government to weaken the healthy competition. When people were supposed to meet this Christmas and finally enjoy a little good food while they're worried about the sky-high prices of electricity, worried about increased taxes and taxes under this government, the Minister of Agriculture was worried that people would pay too little for Christmas food. Why does the Minister of Agriculture recommend price cooperation to prevent healthy competition that benefits consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e705	This government is also for competition in the food chain, but what this government wants, unlike the previous government, is to bet on Norwegian food producers – those who every day, 24 hours a day, want us to have Norwegian food on the table, those who have almost worked hard. It is clear that two thirds of the farmer's income comes from the market. What I've challenged the food chains on is evener distribution, that the farmer will get more back. Then the whole value chain is important. The farmer is important, the dairies and Nortura are important, but also the food chains and not least the customers. When I was out with my play in the VG, it was because I think it's an unheard thing to do with price war just a few days a year. I am also fully aware that there are people out there who are struggling with the economy – I have met many of them – but it is not that cabbage root of 2.90 kroner a day before Christmas that makes the big difference. These are products produced by Norwegian producers. Doing so in the way that the food chains do beyond Christmas, beyond Easter, helps undermine the job of Norwegian farmers, Norwegian families do every single day, 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e714	When the Council of State stands here and claims that a price war is unheard of, I believe the government will intervene and change its competition policy, which contributes to healthy competition and low prices for consumers. There are strong signs that the Minister of Agriculture has now given the food chains. She has asked them to sit down and agree on or discuss how to cooperate on prizes. It is a whole new line of competition policy. Then my question is: what is the Minister of Agriculture doing in relation to the food chain, what is the government sending out to them, what should they do to harmonise prices better, and how does the Minister of Agriculture demand that the food chain now close the price war and cooperate more closely on prices of Norwegian food?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e723	As I was inside, and as I clarify very clearly, this government is also for competition. It was just supposed to be missing. What this government wants to invest in is Norwegian agriculture — the Norwegian producers who produce our food every day. We now see that a lot of people are counting on the buttons if they want to keep going or not. What is my most important job is to contribute to the fact that we actually have Norwegian food products in the Norwegian market in the future. The last blue-blue government has created a huge financial insecurity for the farmers that produce food out there, a huge financial insecurity that has made many count on the buttons if they're going to lay down. That trend and that course we are going to turn to government, and we have already started to turn it around, because we have delivered billions of dollars to Norwegian agriculture after only three months in government. Two thirds of the farmer's income comes from the market, so it is also important to challenge the chains on a more even distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e732	There will be follow-up questions – Linda Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e737	The Council of State does not respond to any of the questions I ask, so let me repeat my question: What signal has this government now given to the food chains about how they will cooperate and sit down and agree to change food prices? How are competitive conditions to be changed? Has the Minister invited the food chains at a meeting where this message is explicitly communicated, or how is the process going on? If the Council of State can respond to how the food chains are now going to behave to sit down and work together to change the prices of a number of selected goods, then what I want is the Council of State to respond to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e744	This Council of State has met with all the food chains and heard about the challenges and opportunities they are facing. This Council of State will also be on its way with the Norway Group in less than a short time. I spend a lot of time talking to the food chains. Clearly, cooperation and competition in the food chain are important. What I've challenged the food chains is taking part in social responsibility, and it's just that we have to think about two thirds of the farmer's income coming from the market. It is also important to maintain Norwegian food producers. In order to maintain Norwegian food production, the market is important. When we are aware of it, this government has also said that we want to look at import protection and the space for action within customs, which are also important factors in contributing to the income of the farmer and that more should end up with the food producers, as well as that we are facing an important agricultural settlement for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e751	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e765	On 1 January was a brand day. Then Norway took over the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council. The office of President of the Security Council rotates between members every month, so this January month Norway is in charge of the meetings and is responsible for the agenda of the Security Council. It's been 20 years, and it's probably going to be 20 years until the next time we've done this. This is referred to as the world's most important meeting room. It's maybe every 20 years we've been doing this, so in a century, there's five months every century we're sitting with leadership clubs in the UN Security Council. Our ambassador to the United Nations in New York, Mona Juul, marked the event yesterday by inviting his colleagues to lunch. It was supposed to have taken place on the "Statsraad Lehmkuhl", which is currently in port in New York. However, the breakfast had to be moved due to measures to prevent infection. The pandemic also marks the work of the UN Security Council. It is in good Norwegian tradition that we wanted to launch our presidency at ‘Statsraad Lehmkuhl’. Lehmkuhl was – at least this knows the mountains in the hall – a member of the Christian Michelsen Assembly Board in the years after 1905. Then we got our own independent foreign policy. For me, this link represents an important symbolism for three reasons: that we are continuing the broad cross-political consensus on the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy Norway has an independent vote in the Security Council – although we note increasing geopolitical tensions on a daily basis, there is no throwing ball between the major powers. that we are also a member of the Security Council to safeguard our own interests, and that is to promote international law and respect for international agreements, because a strong UN is essential for Norway's security and Norwegian interests I want to thank all the parties on the Stortinget for getting us to sit on the UN Security Council. The place of Norway in the Security Council is a cooperation between many of the parties represented here. It has been worked very well. I can look beyond the hall and look at many of you how it has been worked well on different delegation trips and in other contexts to promote our case and our candidacy. I would like to thank you for many important discussions in the Chamber, as well as for the two parties that opposed us applying for membership of the Security Council, the Red and the Advance Party, for contributing to good discussions. A special thanks goes to Ine Eriksen Soreide for her thorough work of bringing Norway into the council. We have left behind a year of increased instability and conflict in the world, an instability that is also reflected in the UN Security Council. The Security Council is not known to be in a power-political vacuum. The Security Council is – and will always be – an arena of major action policy. At best, it can be tamed, but it cannot be removed. The UN supports the framework of international law and the multilateral institutions serving Norway, which serve Norwegian interests. These are institutions of importance for our security, our economy and our well-being. They contribute to international stability. The first Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Trygve Lie, said this: I see in the United Nations a practical path towards peace and progress – not a fast and easy path, but a path that leads if only the Member States wisely, loyally and firmly use the institutions of the UN in the coming years. It is our responsibility to contribute to the bodies responsible for ensuring international legal order and multilateral solutions. The Security Council is such a body. The Hurdal platform is clear that we want to use the membership of the UN Security Council to strengthen international law, to raise climate issues, to protect civil and children's rights in war and conflict and to promote women's rights. The objective of strengthening international law, including humanitarian law and human rights, is a red line throughout the membership period. We are raising climate issues because the link between climate change and security should be an important part of the Security Council's agenda. We promote women's rights, inclusion and participation, especially through work related to women, peace and security. In addition, the diplomacy of peace is a red thread during the membership period. We will strengthen the Council's efforts to prevent, mitigate and resolve conflicts by building on Norwegian experience in peace and reconciliation. The contribution of Norway is relevant. We have a long experience talking to all parties in different conflicts, including with parties we strongly disagree with. A wide network of ground actors gives us knowledge of events that take place. We are actively using this network. This ensures that the Council is as informed as possible before we take decisions. When, for example: Reported systematic rape of women in the conflict in Ethiopia, we know it has taken place. We've confirmed it from credible sources on the ground. We have regular dialogue with civil society and research communities in Norway. It's important. We've had several useful recording rounds with civil society organisations. Contact with the research communities is organised as round table meetings between researchers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where topics relevant to our work in the Security Council are discussed. NUPI and PRIO have contributed specifically to this work as a secretariat and organise these round table meetings. I want to thank you for your important efforts, and I look forward to working with them the following year. The Presidency of the Security Council gives us the opportunity to initiate our own thematic meetings, so-called signature events. There are some words left in the UN context, ‘signature arrangement’ are of these words. We're planning for two of these. I will lead the first one myself, on 18 January. It's about women, peace and security. We will then focus our attention on the need to strengthen the link between women's participation in political processes and women's protection. We know that women will not achieve protection until they can also participate in and influence politics. Women need to be able to participate in politics and work for their own participation, without jeopardizing their own lives. The Prime Minister will lead our second signature event, on the need for better protection of civilians when wars are fought in cities and densely built struts. Modern wars are fought to a lesser extent as we are used to history books or movies; on the battlefield. Now more is happening in urban areas where people live, with long-lasting adverse effects on the civilian population. Many killed and injured and destroyed infrastructure such as water supply, hospitals and schools, driving people on the run, and it's less to come back to. In the meeting we will discuss the challenges of urban warfare. It is particularly important to highlight the responsibility of warring parties to protect the civilian population. In addition to these signature events, I will also conduct an open debate on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The Security Council plays an important role in international efforts to facilitate a peaceful resolution to the conflict in the form of a negotiated two-state solution. My hope is that the meeting can help create a more constructive dynamic. As President, we will also hold an informal meeting of the Council's ambassadors and the UN Secretary-General on preventive diplomacy and peace mediation. The event will be set up using the same model as the annual Oslo Forum, where global actors in peace mediation are involved. It is adapted to the Security Council to create an arena of confidentiality and discretion. The red thread will be how to include and communicate with the actors in a conflict. This is where Norway's long-standing commitment and experience as a peace and reconciliation actor will become very important. It is also important to invite representatives from civil society to the table, especially women. A number of women have been exposed to represals in recent years after keeping informed of the UN Security Council. Prominent voices therefore refuse to stand up. They fear the consequences for themselves and their families when they return to their homeland. These are people who experience the connection between what is decided in the council and what is happening in their own lives and with people they know. It also highlights the gender dimension of peace and security measures. By inviting them to inform the Council, we give a clear voice to those most affected by violence and conflict. Several demanding country situations will be dealt with by the Council in January. It includes Afghanistan, Yemen, Libya, Somalia and Syria. We will also follow developments closely in Myanmar and Ethiopia. In order to give extra attention to important and demanding issues, it may be appropriate that other meetings on specific country situations be conducted at political level. Let me mention that Norway has also taken the initiative in a resolution on maritime security. Last year there were 135 maritime kidnappers in the world. 130 of these took place in the Gulf of Guinea. In concrete terms, we want to reduce piracy in the Gulf of Guinea and contribute to increased criminal prosecution of pirates in this area. The resolution will be negotiated in the weeks ahead and will help ensure free movement for both Norwegian and international shipping. We have a lot to do here from the Norwegian side. Ghana is the co-pilot after the country entered the Security Council in January. It is a country with which we have also cooperated in many other areas. What have we achieved at half of our membership? Our priorities have influenced the renewal of the various mandates by the Security Council – for peacekeeping operations, for political missions and for various sanctions regimes. They represent a significant proportion of the resolutions adopted in the course of a year. We have contributed to the fact that several of the Council's decisions are very clear on what is under pressure in the world today, namely the language of international law. We're strengthening this. The composition of the Council makes it difficult to make progress in several cases. In the UN, there are daily struggles for even the smallest progress, especially when we talk about the impact of broad thematic decisions and opinions. I would therefore like to draw up the resolution on the protection of conflict education as a positive decision. We prepared the text and led the demanding negotiations which led – despite the considerable resistance of some of the Council members – to a unanimous decision on 29 October. 99 of the UN Member States were co-sponsors. It underlines the broad international support for strengthening the protection of education. In this Decision, the Security Council calls on all UN Member States to implement concrete measures to protect schools and universities from attacks. There may be measures that most countries may seem obvious but pose a real threat in different conflict areas, such as using school buildings for the storage of weapons and ammunition or other military purposes, thus making these schools military targets. Through this Decision, the Council will prevent and prevent the military use of schools, uses that could endanger children, students and teachers and take away from them the opportunities for education. This is the first time the Security Council adopts a single resolution on the protection of education and training institutions in conflict zones. The Council has thus given a clear indication that safe access to education has an impact on international peace and security. The resolution strengthens a very important field of action. It shows that, through long-term and systematic efforts, it is possible to achieve results even on demanding themes. Climate change and security challenges are expected to increase in the years to come. The long-term impact depends on how fast we cut greenhouse gas emissions, but also on good climate adaptation will reduce human vulnerability. In the Security Council, Norway, together with similar countries, has raised the impact of climate change on security and vulnerability. Links between the climate crisis and international peace and security are becoming increasingly apparent. For example, in the Sahel region, climate change affects ecosystems and people's livelihoods. Increased competition for scarce resources nourishes conflicts, in particular between farmers and visitors. In Somalia and Lake Chad, climate impacts have enabled armed groups to strengthen themselves. In Iraq, water shortages, reinforced by climate change, lead to an increased risk of violent conflicts exploited by armed groups. However, there is not consensus among all Council members that climate change has implications for international peace and security. Some Council members do not accept that there is a direct link between climate change and conflict. They disagree that the Security Council should play a role in this area. We saw this clearly when a few weeks ago Russia vetoed a thematic resolution aimed at recognising this very link. India too voted against the resolution, while China was absent. The result is regrettable and discouraging, not least since this has very wide international support. A total of 113 UN member states supported the draft resolution. Nevertheless, Norway will continue to raise the impact of climate change on the agenda of the Security Council, not least when we, together with Kenya, have taken over the Presidency of the informal Council expert group on climate and security. Nor should we be surprised that in 2021 we were advised to recognise the link between climate change and conflict in operations, including outside Africa. The mandates for UN operations in both Cyprus and Iraq include climate and security as a result of targeted Norwegian efforts. Furthermore, through cooperation with research institutions, we have helped to strengthen the professional basis for this work. We have established a Nordic-Baltic expert network on climate and security. It will help build knowledge and experience that will benefit many countries in the years to come. Of many small — and some slightly larger — averages, let me draw up three examples of concrete country situations: On 9 July last year, a unanimous Security Council decided that humanitarian aid could continue to cross the border with Syria. This Decision shall apply for a period of one year until 10 July 2022. The resolution ensures that the UN and humanitarian organisations continue to carry vital relief across the border from Turkey, emergency aid reaching over three million people in North-West Syria. It was the first time in five years that the Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution on Syria. It says a little bit about how polarized the Syria debate has been in recent years. Norway, together with Ireland, is the pen leader for this work. We conducted the demanding resolution negotiations and are responsible for following up the Council's examination of the matter further. It was also essential that Russia and the United States should find a unified solution. We work closely with other countries within and outside the Security Council, as well as with other parts of the United Nations system. For Norway, it is an important point that humanitarian aid should not be used as a political tool. Secondly, I would like to mention Norway's work on Afghanistan in the Security Council. There we have a special responsibility as a pen leader – a responsibility we have now shared with Estonia, which left the Council at the turn of the year. The members of the Security Council have demonstrated over time the ability to come together on Afghanistan issues, and this has been important. There has also been the case for a number of opinions initiated by Norway and Estonia in the last year. We are now in a critical period in Afghan history. Afghanistan is experiencing drought, pandemic, economic collapse and the effects of many years of conflict. It is a humanitarian crisis with the prospect of a starvation of dimensions. 23 million people experience acute food insecurity. One million children are reported to die of hunger. Our aim is to keep the Council as united as possible, but at the same time to show the power of action that is relevant to further development. It is possible to find solutions. The unanimous decision of the Council last September to extend the UN mission in Afghanistan until March of this year is an example of this. It is important that the UN continues to have the resources they need to help the Afghan people in a desperate situation. In this context, it is positive that on 22 December the Security Council unanimously decided to grant exemptions from the Taliban sanctions regime for humanitarian aid and other basic support to Afghanistan. In addition, the United Nations must continue to have a mandate to engage with the Taliban in political dialogue and to monitor and report on human rights and civil protection. We're especially concerned with women's and girls' rights. Thirdly, I would like to mention the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Here we have played an active role and contributed to agreed solutions in the Council. During the dramatic escalation of acts of violence between Gaza and Jerusalem last May, Norway was at the heart of its efforts to ensure the response of the Security Council. Through active diplomacy and the use of emergency meetings, we, in close cooperation with Tunisia and China, who were presidents that month, helped to increase the pressure on the parties to enter into a truce. We succeeded in ensuring support for the Council's first press statement on this conflict since 2014. It says something about the steep fronts of the Council and the importance of preventive diplomacy. These examples show that despite differing views among members of the Security Council, it is possible to find agreed common solutions. But it requires systematic, creative and long-term work. The former UN Secretary-General – he who was number two, after Trygve Lie – the Swedish Dag Hammarskjöld, once said that the UN is not a guarantee of peace, but a necessary tool in our society’s quest to secure peace. In some cases, however, the tool has not been good enough. The Security Council does not always succeed in ensuring peace. It is the actors in a conflict who bear the primary responsibility. Regional organisations often play a key role. Nevertheless, we would like to see the Security Council do more and react more strongly to several of the serious crises that have escalated in the last year. I think first and foremost of the dramatic developments in Ethiopia and Myanmar. In Ethiopia, the authorities' blockade of humanitarian access to Tigray has led to hunger among the population. There is systematic destruction of infrastructure, health centres and others in the region. Systematic sexual abuse is reported. There have been evidence of serious and widespread human rights violations, which, according to the UN High Commissioner, can limit crimes against humanity. In Myanmar there is armed conflict in 13 out of 14 states and regions. The country has more than 600 000 internally displaced, of which over 280 000 have been new internally displaced since the coup last year. More than 14 million of Myanmar’s inhabitants are estimated to be in humanitarian need by 2022, an increase of over 13 million people compared to the beginning of 2021. It's a massive disaster. Despite the seriousness of these situations, despite the direct impact of developments on regional security, some members of the Council still believe that these conflicts are not on the Council's agenda. Norway, together with like-minded Council members, has sought a clear response from the Security Council to these acute crises. We have pressed for urgent meetings and for the advice of an overall Security Council. We have lost considerable effort, commitment and resources for the Security Council to engage in these crises. Unfortunately, the response or statements have not been as strong as we would have liked. We should like it to be supported by the members of the Council to implement more instruments, as the UN Charter provides. For both Ethiopia/Tigray and Myanmar, unfortunately, we have to say that the Security Council has failed, failed to prevent and fail to respond in a way that could prevent serious human rights violations and have saved large civilian losses and suffering. In the Presidential Opinion on Myanmar adopted on 10 March, the Council condemns, inter alia: the use of violence against peaceful demonstrators. A relatively strong opinion was isolated, but it has not yet been possible to obtain support from the Council in order to build on it. We will continue to work to bring the Council together and respond in the form of opinions and decisions that may have an impact and impact on the ground. Sudan is an example where the Security Council's opinion and condemnation had an effect. It came after the military coup on 25 October last year. It pushed the rulers to reverse the coup and deal with extensive demonstrations without the use of violence. The opinion came about after close Norwegian coordination with African countries. It has strengthened our profile as an actor who can and wants to talk to every country. Unfortunately, developments in Sudan have not gone in a positive direction. In order to help save the transition process in the country, it is now important that the Security Council remains united. Dag Hammarskjöld said one more thing: The UN was not established to send humanity to heaven, but to prevent it from going to hell. Let me therefore stress that even balanced joint statements also have a value. The ability of the members of the Council to stand together is important because the option is far worse, namely that the Security Council remains silent or the paralysed for action. We often talk about consensus when the members of the Council agree on an opinion or decision, but it is probably more precise to mention this as compromises. The overall will of the Security Council can best be described as a compromise between the different interests of the fifteen members. That is precisely what most of the Council's decisions, decisions and opinions are – a necessary and often straightforward compromise negotiated. Of the 57 resolutions adopted by the Security Council last year, 48 were unanimous. There was a veto in 2021. In other words, statistics don't look so bad, even if they don't have to be played over. We see several examples of increased cooperation and pragmatism. At the same time, there are well-known lines of distinction between Council members. This applies in particular to differing views on the principle of sovereignty and the principle of non-interference on the one hand, and on the question of universal rights and protection on the other. Here the five permanent members of the Council divide into two camps, while there will always be some movement among the ten elected members. On 1 January, the Council was given five new members: Albania, Brazil, the United Arab Emirates, Gabon and Ghana. It's going to be interesting to see how these members are positioned in this field. In the last year, we've witnessed a world of instability and increased tension between the major powers. We have witnessed the coup d'état in, among others. Mali, Guinea, Sudan and Myanmar. Haiti is near state collapse. Unstability is increasing in the EU's eastern and southern neighbourhoods. It is difficult to find evidence of real progress in the conflicts that are already on the Security Council's agenda. Many of these conflicts are linked to the 12 UN peacekeeping operations and 24 specific political missions. Norwegian personnel are involved in several of these. Today we have police and military personnel in peacekeeping operations in Mali, South Sudan, the Middle East and Cyprus. In addition, we have personnel in the UN's political mission in Colombia and Sudan. More than 43 000 Northmen have been involved in UN peace operations since 1949. In the Hurdal platform, we are clear that we want to increase Norwegian contributions to UN peace operations. These are operations and missions of importance for international peace and security. We now experience that the UN peacekeeping operations must operate in increasingly unbridled situations. Often, there are far more parties than host country authorities and opposition groups involved in the conflicts. This means that national conflicts are becoming increasingly widespread in regional and global implications. Several UN peacekeeping and political missions face challenges related to the lack of peace, either because there is no peace agreement or because there is a limited opening up of an existing peace agreement. There has been a lot of talk about Norway’s being able to get into a big deal in the United Nations Security Council, and the pressure on Norway — from all sides — will increase as a result of membership. To that I would say the following: All states are working to promote their own interests. That's what the major powers do, and so do we. So far, we have been very steady in this pressure – with an independent Norwegian voice – and rarely got into a dispute between the powers. Yes, we experience occasional opposition to interest and cross-presses, but it is to a small extent linked to our membership of the Security Council. We also experienced that before we became a member, and we will experience that after we leave the Security Council in 2023. It is part of the everyday life of foreign policy. So why does membership in the Security Council have value? It is not because Norway alone can secure peace or prevent war, but because Norway is in a concrete way involved in formulating the decisions and opinions taken by the world’s most important body to ensure international peace and security, because we are fighting a daily battle to ensure a language of the thematic and international law that is as strongly as supported by the Council’s decisions and opinions, because human rights have been strengthened by Norway sitting in the Security Council, and because we take our own initiative and often win out in cooperation with other Council members. Nor should we forget the more specific part of the mandate for peacekeeping operations, political missions and sanctions regimes. These give results on the ground, results that are about people's lives. There will be important vital relief across the border from Turkey to North-West Syria to millions of people in distress. Finally, Norway has stood up for our values and interests in the Security Council. We are defending what we believe in, what we believe is important and right to create a more peaceful and stable world, whether it be the Israeli-Palestinian conflict or the link between climate change and security. In the summer of 1905, State Councillor Lehmkuhl, Foreign Minister Løvland and the rest of Michelsen's general government stood up to Norwegian independence and autonomy in the face of the great powers of the day. This attitude has reflected Norwegian foreign policy all the way since then. That position also applies now. As a member of the UN Security Council, we have stood firm – with an independent voice working to ensure peace. We're going to do that in the year that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e876	The President will propose that the statement on Norway’s membership of the United Nations Security Council in 2022 be discussed at a subsequent meeting of the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e983	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e988	Thank you so much for that. I am pleased with the attendance of the President, and the Progress Party supports the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-05.ana.ud480e1029	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – That is not the case, and the meeting has been cancelled.
