ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e28	From the Central Party's large-scale group there is an application to extend the convocation of the meeting representative of West Agder, Eivind Drivenes, to extend until Friday 8 April, under the mandate of the representative Anja Ninasdotter Abusland from 15 November to 18 April. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: This application will be processed immediately and approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e45	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e50	On behalf of the representative Bears Moxnes and myself, I propose to respect local democracy and stop state regulation of Oslo University Hospital, OYS. On behalf of the representatives of Marie Sneve Martinussen, Geir Jørgensen, Hege Bae Nyholt and myself, I propose to ensure a predictable right to dental treatment for torture and assault victims and people with odontophobia, TOO patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e57	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e62	On behalf of the Progress Party representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Frank Edvard Sve, Morten Stordalen, Silje Hemdal and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to build the whole E39 Ringweg east of Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e67	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e72	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Grete Wold, Mona Fagerås and myself on increasing quality in the SFO.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e77	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e83	On behalf of the SV-representatives Kathy Lie, Grete Wold, Marian Hussein, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I am promoting a proposal to correct the legislation on disability and to close the incident.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e88	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e104	On Monday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the state councillors Ola Borten Moe, Anette Trettebergstien and Tonje Brenna will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question. We will then begin with the first main question, which is from the representative Margret Hagerup.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e113	The exam is an important part of the Norwegian school assessment system, and it allows students to show what they have learned during the school year without any previous results affecting their character. The examination gives students important quality assurance by obtaining an external assessment of their professional competence. The centrally awarded exams have identical qualifications for all those entering the subject, and they give the students a more equivalent diploma. They are also directed anonymously, and the results of the examinations help teachers and the school to control and develop their own work on assessments. The right considers it important to maintain confidence in the diplomas and exams, and the pandemic has updated the challenge of different characterisation on the examination and on the stand. When the NTB reported that the Education Directorate assessed whether the exam should be scrapped over time, both we and a number of other actors in the sector were concerned. Now we need a clarification whether the government has actually asked the Education Directorate to consider scrapping the exams, and whether this is something the government wants in the long term, because in Hurdals platform, government – in contrast – writes that there is still going to be exams in high school and in high school. So the question is, can the Council of State decide whether the exam should be held in school, something that has also been confirmed in the government platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e122	The government has not asked the Education Directorate to scrap exams and does not intend to graduate exams as the institute. Nevertheless, Norwegian school has changed a lot in recent years without the way one conducts the exam, necessarily doing the same thing. It is natural in the light of the completion reform and the innovations to see if there are no other ways of conducting exams that are both useful to students and that are better linked to the way we organise the training. I agree with the representative that it is important that we have an objective assessment of what the individual student can do at the end of the year, but exactly how that assessment is to be carried out – whether it is with a different drawing system than we have today, whether it is with a multidisciplinary examination, whether it is with more use of practical examinations and tests – I think it is absolutely worth investigating. If the college is to have confidence in the future as well, we need to update the way we conduct the exam, in line with Norwegian school and society changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e129	I thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that they will not scrape the exam as it was reported. We agree that it's important to look at the system, and we're open for the exam to have some changes. The aim of the innovation is precisely for students to demonstrate both the breadth and depth of their competence, and then the exam must give the students that opportunity. The right is also concerned with developing, not liquidating, but an important purpose of the exam is to ensure that the grades given are similar across teachers and schools. The question is: can the State Council confirm that the examination will be carried out as part of the national quality assessment system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e134	The Council of State can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e139	Then I thank you for the answer. In further work, some important principles of examination have to be clarified. It is as the Council of State said, a neutral external assessment, but it is also a non-discrimination of students across the country, so that students in Lillesand and Vadsø will have the same opportunity. Quality assurance of the position character was an important tool for teachers and school owners. Are these principles which the Council of State also communicates to the Directorate of Education in its further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e144	I'm not quite sure if I understood the substance of the question, but if I understand correctly, the question was whether we were doing other work in this field, clearly express that we are concerned about keeping the exam. It's a signal we're very clear on. The whole question here is how we develop the exam as the institute with the aim of ensuring that it is in line with the way we conduct training and that it is useful information for each student to get in the assessment of what he or she can do. It's a useful way for schools to keep track of whether or not students have learned what to do. If I didn't understand the question correctly, I'm sorry, but I understood it so that's what the representative Hagerup asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e151	Hagerup, will you clarify?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e156	I thank you for the answer and I think it is good that the Council of State can confirm that the examination is important. I hope it gets into the further system. It is important both for legal certainty and for non-discrimination. I would also like to take the opportunity to ask a question about the sample that has been dropped to look at the national samples, where a clear objective is to reduce the number of samples. My concern is that this is a step towards removing knowledge about school and openness about school outcomes. The mandate states that the quality development system should not contribute to ranking and competition or to narrowing school pedagogical practices to what is measurable. It may sound nice, and we agree that tests should not be used uncritically for simplified rankings, but it must be possible to compare across schools. This can be interpreted as a way of reducing the transparency of school performance and status. My question is: does the Council of State agree that it is important to maintain a high level of transparency about the results and developments in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e163	The reason why we measure how Norwegian students and Norwegian schools are doing is that we need to use the information we receive, to develop schools for the better – both in the professional community and in individual schools, but also when we politicians develop policies and make decisions about and on behalf of the school. I am concerned that the tests we carry out, both provide useful information and that the results we get, are being used well. But I don't think we're going to pretend anything but that what we're measuring, and in what way we're measuring it, helps to draw resources towards what we're measuring. One example is that mathematics and billing are surveyed through four different tests during primary school, while social sciences and more practical subjects are barely monitored. This means that resources are also drawn in that direction. It may be positive that it happens, but we need to know what we're doing, and so I'm concerned that we're getting an overview of what we're doing, what they're doing for each student and school, and how we can do this better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e171	Guri Melby – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e176	The Council of State itself said that Norwegian school has changed quite strongly in recent years, perhaps especially with the introduction of the trade renewal, which was a reform of the school itself wanted, which would contribute to more practical learning and less standstill. What was not involved in the implementation of the curriculum was a new quality assessment system. That's why one of the things we worked very intensively on, making decisions about new national tests, so that students get tests that are adapted to the curriculum they've been working on. In 2025, the fifth grade will only have worked on the new curriculum. The great moment of tension in the last period was what the Workers' Party really thought about national tests. It was a little bit off, very unclear, and I was a little excited to hear what the new Council of State would do with national tests. What she wants to do is start a new investigation and a new NOU, and she says nothing about the direction the new national tests are going to take. My question to the Council of State is: How long is it possible that Norwegian students will be assessed after old tests when they have a new curriculum?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e181	I guess the former minister of knowledge is also concerned that we have knowledge before we make important decisions about the way Norwegian school should be organised. That is why I am concerned that this is done in a good and thorough way. In recent years, discussions about tests and surveys in school have largely only been about volume and whether the volume we have is useful, while I am also concerned about the way it is structured, and the way it develops. That's why I think it's right to have a sample that looks at the whole of this, because there may be good reasons why every single element is introduced as a tool to map something, but it's also time to ask ourselves whether we, as politicians, have decided on many individual elements that add up to an unreasonable burden both on the individual student and at school, and whether the mapping we do helps us to develop the school in a positive direction that contributes to more learning, while at the same time having enough information on how it really stands in Norwegian school. That doesn't mean I'm not clarifying things quickly. It's the opposite of working in an appropriate and knowledge-based way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e186	Guri Melby – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e191	I believe there is a fundamental difference in asking for more knowledge and decision-making. We have now carried out national tests in Norway for about a year. 20 years, and we have a lot of knowledge about how those tests work. The last evaluation that was carried out shows that teachers believe they are getting far too little information about the students to use it as a customised training tool. That's why we made a basic decision to get more focus on samples that provide information about the students, by developing so-called progress tests. At the same time, we were clear that there would be no more tests. We said we wanted more of what gives information about the students, and less of what ranks the schools. So one thing that the Council of State has decided is to cancel the tests that are going to give more information about the individual student, and then she pushes out all the other decisions in time. The question is: how can this contribute to the renewal of Norwegian school, better monitoring and more adapted training, when she does not dare to make a single decision herself?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e196	I was a student in Norwegian school in the 1990s and learned to read, write and calculate there, so subject to this being true, as it was a while ago, I believe that I could count on Melby's representative as a minister of knowledge about four times as long as what I've done now, and could fully care to do this even if it was so important. I believe that one of the reasons why we have to look at this completely is that it has happened for too many years that politicians have decided exactly the way Melby puts up – that we are adding a new test and not deciding what we are taking out when we choose to introduce a new element in Norwegian school. This has contributed to the fact that very many people spend a lot of time doing other than training. There's a lot of time for the students, there's a lot of time for the schools, and I'm not quite sure these things necessarily help us get more information about what we need most to know about in Norwegian school. That's why I think it's right to look at this whole thing, make sure that the things we measure are useful to the school and remove what might be superfluous.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e201	The next main question comes from the representative Silje Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e206	I have a question for the Minister for Gender Equality. For the Progress Party, freedom is essential for equality. That is why I and the Progress Party are fighting for a blue equality policy rather than a red model policy. That is why the Progress Party has now also put forward proposals on, among other things. to restore freedom of choice for families and to abolish the third division of parental leave. After this, we also see that new numbers have come to show that an increasing proportion of women are taking unpaid leave. This shows that guardian policy is bad family policy. At present, the permit insurrection on Facebook has nearly 33,000 followers. The Minister for Children has been a little busy in this debate, but stressed that the third will remain firm. But more and more people are wondering where the Minister for Gender Equality is in this debate. So my question is simply: where has the Minister for Gender Equality been in this debate and an ever-increasing number of women taking unpaid leave? Isn't this equality in reverse?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e217	I can assure the representative that the Minister for Gender Equality has been debating this issue, including: with the representative himself. I'm very busy and a strong supporter of the third of the leave. When we stay in Norway with the world's best leave arrangement for people who have children, it should also be lacking that Dad did not get his rightful share of the leave. The third division works well. There is one allowance for mother and one allowance for father, and then there is a large common portion that parents can choose for themselves how to withdraw. The important thing is that the child is given the opportunity to have a good relationship with both parents. We know that unfortunately it is that without a strong father's quota, fathers take out less leave. I don't think that's because fathers generally don't want to take leave, but there's still some gender role patterns and some mechanisms in our society that make that, for example. some employers do not want a father to be at home. So it's also like some mothers want most of the leave themselves. That is why the fathers must have this spring quota, and this is why the Workers' Party is very much in favour of it. There are some claims that mothers take out unpaid leave because the father's allowance is too large. I then recommend that the representative look at the research and the figures we have on this, which says that the amount of unpaid leave has increased steadily over many years. It has complex causes, and it's not that the length of the spring quota is what makes mothers take out more unpaid leave. Today you have the choice of 49 weeks with 100 pst. wages and salaries or 59 weeks of 80 pst. wages and salaries. It is economically worthwhile to take out unpaid leave and take the short variant. [[The President clubs.]] That I think might be a factor that makes a lot of people do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e228	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e233	We're going to have a hearing on the proposals of the Progress Party tomorrow, so I guess we'll get a lot of good input there. In order to be a little more concrete, the Minister can answer me on how it helps equality in Norway that it is now close to 50 pst. women taking unpaid leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e239	The number of 50 pst. I don't know where the representative came from, so I have to check. It's not a number I know of. But we know that over many years there have been many who take out unpaid leave. There's a lot of mothers and a lot of fathers. It is not good for gender equality that mothers take unpaid leave, because taking unpaid leave has some consequences for their working life, earnings, etc. – and later for the pension. But the researchers say there's no reason to claim that it's the father's quota that makes the mothers take out unpaid leave. The reasons for that are complex, and these are things that we're looking at more closely. Now, for the sake of order, the Minister for Children is responsible for the leave system. I'm also going to touch this when in May I come back to the Storting with my gender policy statement, but you have to see that this is more complex than that. Among other things, I think that many parents are counting on it and are told by Nav that it is economically worthwhile to take the shortest period of time to take out unpaid leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e246	Silje Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e251	If I have understood the Minister for Gender Equality correctly, she unfortunately follows the same line as the Minister for Family Affairs by saying that there are really no concrete plans to do anything. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e256	The only thing I've ever seen that the Progress Party wants to do is give fathers less rights to leave. It doesn't solve anything. It's not going to make fewer mothers take out unpaid leave. On the contrary, the only thing that's going to change is that fewer fathers are going to take out leave. I have not said that I am not going to do anything. As I said, we're concerned about the consequences of women taking unpaid leave, but it's not the length of the spring quota that makes the mothers take this out. I'm e.g. open to see if we're going to do something about the fact that it actually pays to take out short leave and then take out unpaid leave – that you're left with more money financially than you choose 80 pst. and several weeks – to see if we can get rid of incentives to take out unpaid leave. Then, too, as other [president clubs] here in the hall are responsible for, we have to expand more kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e265	The representative must try to keep the time. Silje Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e272	With these answers one can wonder if the Minister for Gender really puts ideology over the facts and simply sacrifice women's social security for his own political reputation. Although the Labour Party would like it to be different, the number of women taking unpaid leave is higher than ever. And then I wonder if that means that having a child and being able to take out leave should primarily be reserved for them with good advice. Is it equality for ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e277	The representative must remember that in the welfare state of Norway, one of the best schemes in the world is to have children. You can stay home for a year with full pay. It's not like that anywhere else in the world, so it's not reserved for them with good advice to be home when they have children. Everyone can. So it's not the length of the spring ratio that makes women take out unpaid leave. I haven't heard a single solution to bring down the number of women who take out unpaid leave from the representative and her party, with the exception of removing or cutting the father's quota. This won't lead to a fall in the number of women taking unpaid leave. It'll just lead to more fathers taking out less leave. I stand shoulder to shoulder with Norwegian fathers. They deserve to be allowed to be home with their children. When we have the best leave arrangement in the world, Father must also have his right to be at home – it should just be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e284	Himanshu Gulati – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e289	In 2019, when the Council of State was proposed as the new women's political leader in the Workers' Party, she spoke to FriFagbewegung, among others. the following concerning the parental leave: ‘For me, it is primarily a question of children and association. The permission is for the child. Equality comes in second row.’ As we have seen in the exchange here earlier today, almost half of mothers take out unpaid leave. Then I hear the Council of State says that there are complex reasons for that, although there are undoubtedly many who take it out because they want Mother to take a larger part of the leave. My question to the Council of State is whether she believes it is a good equality policy if families get more freedom to decide more on how they distribute their leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e299	If the question was whether it is good equality policy that parents are allowed to decide more for themselves, I have to say that no, it is bad equality policy. We have so much empirical evidence, both from Norway and from comparable countries, that when the birth rate is reduced, the number of weeks and the time that father gets home with the child is also reduced. Equality policy is not just about women's affairs; it is also about men's right to be caregivers. Unfortunately, it is not the case today that all men are allowed to take their fair share of the child’s first time in the world, either because mother wants more of the leave itself, or because we have employers who do not want father to be at home – and even pay bonuses for fathers not to take out leave. It is not that you choose freely, in a vacuum, you choose in a setting, and it is unfortunately not that fathers today have as much to beat in the table as their mothers have. That's why we need a federal ratio, and that's good for equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e304	My last follow-up question on this topic goes to the Council of State of Brenna, who is also Minister of Kindergarten. The NRK made a case earlier this week that only 8 out of 356 municipalities in Norway guarantee a child's orphanage when they need it. One of the quotes in the case, from a baby mother in Florø, is that we've come to this amazing city, we've made children, as they ask us, and then there's only one thing that's missing, and that's kindergarten places. When we have had a debate now that almost half of the mothers take out unpaid leave, and that this figure went high after the third part of leave was introduced, and we know that many women do this because they don't get kindergarten in time: does the council see anything she can do in its field to help improve equality and better family solutions in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e314	That makes the Council of States absolutely. Kindergarten is an enormously important part of ensuring that all children are safe and well-growthed and providing development, learning and social communities. I think that at least two main steps to which this government is adding up are enormously important in this context. The first is a good municipal economy, which enables municipalities to provide childcare for all children who need it. We know that there are so many places that how fast you get babysitting is very dependent on when the child is born, and it is, of course, demanding for the families who have had a baby in so-called wrong time. But it's one thing, to provide a good community economy so that the municipalities have room for more children. The second thing we're going to do in a short time is put forward proposals for tightening up the rules for private kindergartens. Part of the rules we are looking at there is that if the municipalities do not have a greater opportunity to control the private sector of our kindergarten sector, simply because it is an important part of the welfare offer offered to children in Norwegian municipalities, and thus an important part of the gender equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e321	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e326	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. In the budget agreement with the government, SV made sure that from the start of school now in the autumn there will be free half-day space in the SFO for all first-rate students in Norway, so that all children can participate in the game and families throughout the country save large sums – a total of more than 111 million. kr per year. In other words, we are in the middle of the roll-out of a major SFO reform, and in the next few months, Kommune-Norge will have to decide on how to resolve the roll-out of the free SFO locally. At that time, the government must also ensure that municipalities are provided with the arrangements needed for policies and information, etc., which are designed to ensure that the scheme reaches their parents and maintains high quality. I've been doing a little super-simple research. I took samples in five different municipalities: Narvik, Rälingen, Bergen, Lillestrøm and Arendal. None of the municipalities provide information on their websites that the offer will be free from school start. It is not strange, because the regulation on free SFO from the government was sent out at the hearing of the government only recently and will not come into force until the summer. Given that we know that parental payment is one of the main reasons why parents do not send the children to the SFO, do I wonder if the Council of State thinks it is important that the councils in these municipalities and others know that they have a right to free SFO space from the fall of? When the government has come out so late, what can the Council of State do to ensure that the offer reaches the country's parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e335	The money that is allocated to a free half-day spot in the SFO has already been transferred via the State budget, and the municipalities know that that money is coming, so I am not worried that the municipalities do not know that this will be an opportunity in their municipality. There are two things I would like to underline in connection with the regulation. One is that I think it is good that we have consultations on this topic – on all themes, but this is especially, because this has not been done before. The second is, and it's related to the first, that there's some dilemmas about how to use the twelve hours around. I believe that part of that SFO is an important contributor to very many places, is giving children an offer on school holidays or on planning days, or that it is possible to be at the SFO when it's not a regular school day. And there are different ways to interpret which rules apply to these twelve free hours. Can you, for example: choose to gather them together on normal school working days, or can they also be taken out when it is planning day? Are they to be used Monday to Friday during the school opening hours, or can you take out parts of it also during the holiday? I think it's very important both that the municipalities engage in these issues, and that we politically think carefully through it, because the goal must be that the money is used correctly for the first time, and secondly that it does not become that the children who depend on getting free SFO, only get it when it's normal school days, and thirdly, SFO has a greater role in very many municipalities by offering activities even when it's school holidays. So I'm really happy that we've done both parts: signaling to the municipalities that the money is coming, while inviting us to hear how we make sure that the money is used in a way that allows more children to be included in the days when it's not normal school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e344	I thank you for your answer. Of course the municipalities know that the money is coming, but the problem is that many parents do not know that the offer comes from the autumn because the government has come so late in clarifying what the regulation will look like. But first of all, free SFO is obviously a joy that also opens up great opportunities to make the content of the SFO offer even better. When all the children are gradually given free access, it is also going to be even more right around betting on the content of that offer, like doing more of the Inland School, with 125 students in Kristiansund, doing. There, the Corps and the School of Culture have been brought into the SFO, with great success, or as on the island of Tøen in Oslo, where the sport has come in. However, to date, the government has not sent out any guidance, a resource bank with experience or in any other way designed to absorb more local culture and sport or other volunteering — help the municipalities with it. Is there anything the government will consider now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e349	The biggest difference between the SFOs before August 2022 and after that is how much each family pays for a place. The municipalities are very used to organising the SFO offer and have done it for many years. There are very many municipalities that do a lot of good in terms of cooperation with sports, volunteering, corps and that kind of thing, and make sure that these offers are linked. Nevertheless, there are many who can do much more to ensure that this offer is filled with content in a meaningful and good way. I was even at Yight school in Rogaland last week, where they have a very exciting offer, with only skilled employees in the SFO, I mean to remember, many child and youth workers who act very well on the students, where you connect the SFO and school life to the rest of your childhood. I think that's a very wise way of working. I think we should have confidence that the municipalities can organise this in a good way. If there are alternatives to that, which means that we can divide some tips across borders, of course, the government is open to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e358	It is open for follow-up questions – first Freddy André Oberstegård.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e363	It is good, because it is an advantage that national authorities provide and share the good experience that many municipalities have with this, with other municipalities, because now there is a completely different SFO offer. Although there is only price that has been changed, it opens up too many possibilities. But it's not just the local collaboration with culture and sport that is becoming more topical. It is also more relevant for municipalities to invest in staffing – as at Jåtten SFO – and competence in the offer when all children are involved. This raises many questions about possible guidance on employee density, appropriate competence or supervision — many issues that the Storting needs to assess in the future. Has the government done anything about it so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e370	I agree with the representative of the Supreme Court, namely that in many ways SFO has probably been a bit vocal in our large education system for many years, and that SFO is a very important place for a lot of children like that school is. But SFO is a voluntary offer. It's a little bit different from school, and it's been and still is partly quite different from what the school has been. But I believe that discussing the SFO in the context of school is an important part of the government's work to do in the context of trust reform – to make this work better and to listen to what you think locally is going to do to make this work better. I also believe that focusing on competence, which the representative was also involved, is very important. So far, we've doubled the sum we've allocated to the development of SFO competence. I believe that this is an important step, together with the fact that the SFO for the first time has got its very first framework plan. But that more work remains to be done to improve the quality of SFOs in the coming years, I am not in doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e377	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e382	Yes, the need to really work with the quality of the SFO offer will be great – I fully agree with the Council of State on that. In addition to this with staffing and competence, we can at least be sure that free SFOs and increased participation, which we expect to be the result, may require investment in both better space and better equipment for children – the need for more space, more toys, more equipment. In the past, the government has introduced interest-rate compensation schemes for municipalities, making it cheaper for them to invest in, for example: new swimming pools for schools. How does the government assess the need now to upgrade the areas associated with our SFOs, and how will the council and the government help the municipalities with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e390	The vast majority of SFOs run in the same premises as our schools do. It's one of the things that makes SFO a place where a lot of kids are happy, just because you feel at home there, and it feels like a place where you're well-known from before. At the same time, it is also the co-operation that points to some of the banalities in the whole system, namely that what happens before lunch is free of charge, and what happens after lunch costs money. Thus it is quite artificial for very many children – some children go home, while the others stay. I think that down the road we may need to upgrade equipment and areas, as a consequence of more children using the SFO, but I'm not sure. And to the extent that we're going to discuss an interest-rate compensation scheme, it's up to the Minister of Finance, and the representative has to answer questions about it there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e397	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e402	I thank you for the answer, but it's still a little disappointing, because when we're in the middle of the roll-out of a very big welfare reform – yes, perhaps the biggest extension of well-being since full kindergarten coverage – it becomes the one where the "may get in the way" attitude is a little late. Because it does not seem that the government has just some very clear plans for this major, important reform – which, on the one hand, sees the great opportunities that open up to increasing the quality of the content of the SFO, and on the other hand takes over the major consequences for the municipalities of such an offer can lead to. What I'm asking about then, in sum, is why not the government is more ahead when we first face such a huge welfare expansion, which really opens up the opportunities to increase the quality of an offer that our kids use for many hours in the course of a regular week.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e407	If we were to rewind some more chapters in time, I guess we wouldn't have figured out how to organize the school day the way we've organized it today, if that's when we reestablished the elementary school. I agree with the representative that for this very reason SFO has become enormously important, because in today's society both mothers and fathers work, and there is a common desire from this hall that mothers and fathers do. That's why I think, as the representative also points out, that we need to do something about the quality of the SFO in the time that comes. However, I would still say that it is a little too early to anticipate the change we are now making in that it will be 12 hours of free SFO from August 2022, will change the use significantly for Norwegian families. I hope that a lot more children participate in the SFO when we reduce the price, but what needs it will lead to when it comes to investing equipment and other things, I think it's too early to shoot. But the representative can take it easy: the government follows this closely and will have great ambitions on behalf of the school leisure system in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e412	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e417	For the past 20 years, commercial companies have made kindergarten a big business by taking out large amounts of profits from kindergartens funded by the community and from parental payments. In 2018, even the Right said that today's legislation is out of date, but since then nothing has happened. The government has notified changes to the Kindergarten Act. There must be the change in rates that both the voters and the trade union movement have called for, namely that tax money allocated to well-being should go to common well-being, not to private profit. If it is to be the turn of ordinary people, it cannot at the same time be the journey of well-being profiters. Now many municipalities have more kindergartens than they have children, but if the number of children is falling, the municipalities can now only cut public offer, either by cutting places or by laying down entire kindergartens, while when a commercial nursery has received public funding, it has the right to the grant for ever, even if the number of children in the municipality changes or the nursery changes owner. Thus, commercial kindergartens have a right of way in front of public kindergartens. The selection of Storberget pointed out that today’s funding system provides a democratic deficit in municipal governance and that there is a need to ensure a greater balance between local and private rights and obligations. It is therefore gratifying that the government in its platform says that they should ensure better democratic control and control of the kindergarten sector, and that Brenna recently promised the Trade Union to gain control of the kindergarten sector – out of the boardrooms and into the municipal boards. What does the Council of State say that control is going to leave the board of directors and enter the local government, just like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e428	While I was sitting in my seat, I registered that there was an invitation to a press conference on this very topic on Friday. I guess it's just a picture that if I had answered exactly the question to the representative of Moxnes here and now, I wouldn't have done my job completely. But I can say that what the representative of Moxnes points to – the dilemma of many municipalities is that you really don't have full control of such an important welfare service as the nursery is – is a challenge in many places, and it's among the things that the government wants to look at. We also know that when the children's councils go down, it's the private kindergartens that continue to exist, with the number of seats they have, while the municipal councils have to lay down. Over time, it also means that the childcare policy of each municipality ends up in force for fewer and fewer children, because it is in the municipal kindergartens that policy is largely in force. I think we need to do more things to ensure democratic control of the nursery sector. First of all, we have to make sure that we have a tighter code to make sure that the money allocated to kindergarten actually goes to kindergarten. Then we have to make sure that the municipalities get more influence over who offers kindergarten in their municipality. We also have to make sure that there are rules that make us sure that children get good quality no matter what kindergarten they go into, that the money allocated to kindergarten goes to just children, and that there are not large chains that take out large profits instead of reinvesting the money again in the welfare of children, through kindergartens. But besides that, I think there would be a bad mood in my office if I were to go further into the details than what I'm doing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e437	I understand that, but at the same time it is exciting to hear if the Council of State stands by what she said to the class struggle in January, namely: ‘Today it is the case that private kindergartens have an eternal right. In municipalities where the pediatrics go down, municipal kindergartens have to go down. We will give municipalities greater influence over the overall shape of childcare provision.’ This is a precise description of the problem, that there is actually a commercial right to drive in the kindergarten sector. The question is therefore whether the Council of State still believes that public municipalities should be able to reduce the number of kindergartens even in commercial kindergartens if the number of children is falling or if you want to continue today's commercial driving rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e447	There were two questions from the representative that were not exactly the same. The first question was whether I agreed with myself and my own quote from the class struggle in January. The answer to that is a yes with an exclamation mark at the back. I still agree with myself. The second question is whether I believe that a municipality should be able to decide – as I see it – to lay down a private kindergarten in front of a municipal nursery. Then we are far inside the legislation I have not intended to go further into today. I am concerned that we are going to have a whole set of rules that will ensure that the money we grant works for our children, that we make sure that it is the local government and the local government that decide the rules and how this welfare is designed to meet the individual family and the individual child, and that we ensure that we have high confidence also in the total amount of tax credits that are granted, and the parental payment. But besides that, I can only say that I still agree with myself, and it is always good to experience it some time after you say something.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e456	It is open for follow-up questions – first Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e461	Then we look forward with excitement to what comes Friday before Easter – not one day chosen for, I hope, to bury bad news, but to give extra whistle to what comes from the government. It will be exciting to see if it delivers on what is promised both high and low, not least to the trade movement through many rounds. So does the Storberget Committee say that it is not possible today to ensure diversity through different forms of ownership in the sector, and that there is no distinction between ideal and commercial private kindergartens with today's legislation. In the platform, the government promises that they will provide small private and ideal kindergartens with better framework conditions and give municipalities the opportunity to prioritize these kindergartens. Is the Council of State that the public should have the opportunity to impose conditions that kindergartens should be, for example, ideal for obtaining grants?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e471	The Council of State believes that regulation must be so tight that if one is initially commercial or initially non-profit-making, however, there should be no large profit taken out as profit. To distinguish between non-profit and commercial activities in ways other than, for example: in the case of operating margin rules, investment, withdrawals and profits, which are quite complex. It is so complicated that more work is done on this after the budgetary agreement between the government and the Swedish government, considering how to look at these things. I think some of what the representative asks about is about something other than regulating the private kindergartens. It is also about the financing system for private kindergartens. There are a lot of elements that work together, and I'm concerned that we first get a tight regulation of the sector, and then we go about designing a funding system that both underpins the rules we've got in place, and provides the goal: the best possible kindergarten for all our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e478	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e483	Thanks for the answer. As the Council of State knows, the public cannot impose the same requirements on commercial kindergartens as on public kindergartens per day. If a municipality wants to have a higher crew in its kindergartens, it must give the same sum to the commercial kindergartens, but without being able to claim what the money will be spent on. Then the commercial can also bring in children under one year of age, who have not legalized the right to babysitting, to fill up the places. The cost of those places is not covered by State grants, but the municipality must equally fully pay the commercial ones for this. According to the Storberget investigation, this weakens public governance of kindergartens. What does the Council of State think of the recommendations of the sample as regards the ability of municipalities to commit commercial kindergartens to, among other things. to give priority to children with a right of place and also to be able to comply with local staffing requirements of the municipal population?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e492	It is absolutely a challenge for the representative to point out. I think the solution is really about two things. One is what I mentioned instead, namely getting more of the kindergarten policy out of the boardrooms of the groups and into the municipal board. The second concerns the possibility of discriminating between different kindergartens based on different needs. It is now a challenge that different populations may face different challenges, which are sought to address, among other things. by manning or betting in different ways. It has been very strictly regulated and is absolutely one of the things the government sees, that it is possible to say that because a kindergarten has special needs, one should be able to prioritize more money to it without there being an automatic in that it comes with a kind of cut of appropriations also to the private kindergartens. So the provision of good enough manning no matter what kind of child goes into a kindergarten is absolutely crucial and is among the things we evaluate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e497	Tore Vamraak – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e502	Private kindergartens have been essential to ensure full childcare in Norway. Furthermore, engaged pedagogues and kindergarten owners who want it very best for our children have given us as parents a more diverse offer to our children, within strict quality requirements set by the authorities. My question is whether the Council of State in the announced proposition on Friday will ensure that engaged kindergarten teachers can also in future realise their dreams of providing a different offer by starting their own kindergartens, and to have a healthy financial operation of the kindergarten without being labeled as welfare professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e509	I have not stamped anyone as a welfare profiter, nor will I. I agree with the representative that over time the kindergarten sector grew more and more diverse. We were and are still totally dependent on private actors who offer nursery facilities. About half of Norwegian children go to a private kindergarten. What over time became a greater diversity is now becoming less diverse, simply because there are few chains that have very many kindergartens. To the question of whether we're going to look at rules that don't push people who want to start their own kindergarten, the answer to that is just yes. Today it is almost impossible for an engaged person who has a desire to offer a slightly different type of kindergarten, to start kindergarten, simply because the big, strong actors are so massive and own so much. Making it easier both to start and operate single kindergartens is one of the purposes of the rules we're going to put forward. I look forward to further discussion about this in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e516	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e521	Minister of Justice Mehl has just told us that we need to listen less to experts in the future. In the past, Finance Minister and Head of the Center Party, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, have also said that we should listen less to experts and more to the people. State Council Borten Moe's job is to train experts and facilitate some of our leading knowledge environments to acquire knowledge and become the best possible. These are essential for driving a knowledge-based policy development. Is the whole government behind this view of professional expertise, and is this view of knowledge at the root of the government's cutting and depriving the sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e530	All first a little kudos and cross the margin of the entrance to the question, which is really about this government in general and my department in particular conducts knowledge-based management of the sector for which we are responsible. There is, of course, the answer. We've always done that, and we're always going to keep doing that. So to the second premise in the question, which was that there's a down-priority of the sector. It's not a reality picture I recognize at all, rather on the contrary. We've never had more students, we've never spent more money in our universities and higher education institutions, and we've never spent more money on research.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e537	It is not known for the university and higher education sectors that they are not at the top of the priority list when the Workers' Party and the Centre are in government, but rarely have they been met by such a cold shoulder as now. I have to say that I do not recognize myself in the reality picture the Council of State draws, because the Council of State's recent demand to cut billions in construction projects in the sector has caused great concern. In meeting global crises and major migration and renewal needs, we need more knowledge – no less. That's exactly why we have multiple places of study, and that we've invested a lot in recent years, and that the government of Solberg left a story where R & D actually increased by 28 pst, and the universities and colleges experienced a real growth of 15.3 pst. My concern and the question to the Council of State is: is it now that the sector has to expect a new cutting-off?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e543	There is a great difference between managing money and skills in a good and responsible way. I would say that you are back to what you can call responsible knowledge-based management. It is the great project of this council, and it is also not possible to put under the chair that when we entered the department, there were some skeletons coming out of the cabinet. With regard to the major construction projects in the state, in my sector, it is important for me to stress the following: The party is over in the sense that it is over to raise money for things that do not work – until sooner or later it is finished. We must manage the Community's money, the taxpayers' money, properly. Then it is responsible and right to go in and challenge at unit costs, on a framework and on a scale – when we see that one building project after another goes over the stick and stone. You don't get any more knowledge of wasting your money, so you get less room for action to bet on what really works.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e550	There will be follow-up questions – first Kari-Anne Jønnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e555	Thanks for the answer, I'm unfortunately not very reassured by it. I have to say that I hope on behalf of the sector is that the Instagram status of the Minister for Gender Equality after the Budget Conference was a bad joke, namely that the Council of State Borten Moe will remain as a budget paper. Because the NTNU campus project, which is the first state council to launch, is a design-to-cost project, a framework has been provided within which the project will stick. This is what the Central Party voted for. And then it's like bringing together knowledge environments by being able to work across them is vital to get the best solutions for the future. Then I wonder if the Council of State is going to launch the NTNU project, and the way it is done now, is a signal that there will be less investment in the university and higher education sector in the future, that it will be down-prioritized as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e560	If there's anything this hall should have come with, then this is the fact: if you decide that something is going to cost so much and so much, it's not the same thing as it necessarily does when the bill is settled at the end. I think it's quite obvious that we have a lot of access to construction projects in general in the public sector. It's being built too expensive, it's being built too big, and it does – in the situation we're in now, where we can no longer continue with the huge growth in oil money used by the previous government, from 123 billion. NOK when you took over, to over 400 billion. When you finished – that you have to manage the money you have in a better way, so that you get more for what you actually invest. My ambition is to continue an ambitious course for construction, laboratory and infrastructure in the university and higher education sectors, but it will cost no more than it needs to cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e565	Kari-Anne Jønnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e570	It is now more important than ever to invest in research and development to find solutions to future challenges. We have to cope with the green shift, we have to prepare for future value creation in business, and we have to live on what contributes to the state budget – not what lives from the state budget. To this extent, the government has focused on reducing the English Academy, downgrading admission requirements for teacher training, re-prioritising funds from quality measures in education to an expensive election vow on the Helgeland coast, subjecting important changes that would make it easier to offer more continuing education and training — and now the recent introduction of students’ desire to have two sensors in the characterising exam. Then my question to the Council of State is: how does he think we should deal with the green shift, increased value creation and a rise in quality if that sector experiences from this government, is cut and lower investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e577	At least we're not going to solve our societal challenges by wasting good money on bad projects. We're going to solve our societal challenges by managing the money we have, in a responsible and good way. That's what's my responsibility, and that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e582	The representative of Jønnes pointed out in his post on the Helgeland coast and with it on the process around the Nesna. I want to ask the Council of State some questions about another process, where it is now speculating whether the Council of State will again review the decision of a university board. I'm talking about Oslomet's Romerike campus, and the decision that it should be placed on Lillestrøm, which was taken in December last year. I know that the municipality of Ullensaker has been visiting the department, and it was reported that both the rapporteur and the rapporteur were just as excited after the meeting in the department as on the first day of work after the election. They have interpreted it as if all alternatives are now in practice, and they are asking the Council of State to take a Nesna — that is what they say. I wonder what signals the Council of State has given its party traps to the rapporteur and to the rapporteur in Ullensaker. Is it relevant to take a Nesna and override Oslomet's decision about the Romerike campus on Lillestrøm, and has the Council of State been visiting – or inviting itself to visit – to which he actually made [the president's clubs] Jessheim – the other municipalities that are involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e591	With regard to the conclusion itself, it is being drawn and will be notified to Oslo in the usual and harsh manner. Let me also say that this is a very important matter. It's very important where you place the new campus on Rome, it's important how you build it, and it's important how you dimension it. All those things are going to be affected, and there's nothing to be surprised that there's a lot of commitment around it in the region. This is a decision that will have a major impact both on the Roma population and on the different localisation options for a long time to come. We all know how many ring effects there are, and how important it is to get it right. So now we're in a situation where it's possible to put important building blocks for generations to come, so it's a big and important decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e600	Turid Kristensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e605	I was going to say thank you for the answer, but there was actually no answer to any of the questions I asked. Governments are quite right that this is a very important process. It's got a lot of people involved. It has engaged me. Now I just have to be told that I am a representative of the whole Akershus and also of the whole of Rome, so I have never expressed any opinion about where it should be. The councils have had a meeting with the representatives of Ullensaker municipality and Jessheim, in the department. The councils ended up inviting themselves to visit Jessheim to see the possibilities of a location there. My question was: what signals has the Council of State given since both the rapporteur and the rapporteur go as hard into the media as they do, and are optimistic about the fact that the Council of State is now going to take a Nesna, as they call it. Is it relevant, and if it is relevant – or where the Council of State is now in the process – has he also invited himself to visit Lillestrøm and Lørenskog, so that he can make a knowledge-based decision by himself being all three places, since the Council of State itself has been at one?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e613	I can assure the representative that I have had meetings with all the rapporteurs involved and yet some more, precisely because this engages as widely as it does, and because it is so important, which I think we both agree on. The reason I invited myself to Jessheim is something so prosaic that I hadn't been to Jessheim. I would like to, and to the extent that there are others in this room who haven't been to Jessheim, I'm actually going to recommend a visit to Jessheim, because it's a place that's worth sticking in. The other two places I know well. I've been there many times. So once again, under the grid of knowledge-based approaches to the decisions that are taken, I would say to the greatest extent that this is the case in this case. Of course, I have not given any other signals than that these are the things we are looking at and assessing, and that the answer will come when the answer comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e622	Tore Vamraak – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e627	I can confirm that it is worth visiting many places in the beautiful Roman Empire, but my question goes back to the council's homelands and the NTNU campus. As the Council of State said, this room should know that the adopted framework is not the same as the final cost will be on a project. This may be due to the fact that, following the government budget conference in March, the government has signalled that the project will be cut by several billions, while the NTNU campus project has been decided to be a design-to-cost project. This means that if some elements of the project become more expensive than expected, the project manager and the project management must cut the cost. So the whole point of design-to-cost is that the cost is what it's decided to be. Can the Council of State tell what he will actually cut into such a design-to-cost project?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e634	What the ministry has done on my initiative is to send a new letter of assignment to state buildings and NTNU. The goal of the process we're about to enter is to evaluate several alternatives, but the main track is to move Dragvoll down to Glöshaugen, which is the core of the campus collection in Trondheim. I can also make sure that I know both places very well. Back to “design-to-cost”: This describes very well why we cannot simply decide that it will cost something and then just take things out of the project afterwards. Moving Dragvoll down to the center is near the city. Either you manage to move the whole Dragvoll down to the Glöshaugen, or you don't move anything. If it turns out that you get an exceedance and end up with a cut in the project that makes you move half Dragvoll, I think the scandal is complete, and then we will still be left with the same nut that we do in the construction project after construction project: Who is the one who is going to pick up the extra bill? I don't want to end up in that situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e641	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e646	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The Progress Party has put forward proposals for representatives for permanent admission to kindergarten. Today, in most municipalities, there is only one main recording. If your child is born in the wrong month, you are at worst at risk of going up to six months on unpaid leave, which we have seen that, among other things. many mothers are now doing. So you're at risk of not getting the right place from the month when the child is 1 year old. Today's system of one main recording is, in our opinion, immature. It helps to reduce gender equality. Many women want to get to work quickly, but then you're admitted to being born in the right month. Some want to be longer at home with the child, while others want to get to work as soon as possible. All families are different and unique in that way. For the Advancement Party, it is important to let the parents decide for themselves and to give the families the most freedom possible, and that it is not the nursery reception that will decide when you go back to work. That is why we believe it is right to introduce continuous admissions throughout the country, and that when parental leave is over, there should be an open kindergarten ready for the children. In its opinion on the draft representative, the Council of State writes in particular: the following on continuous admission: Extended entitlement may be positive both for parents who may return to work more quickly and for children who are given the opportunity to start in kindergarten. I am pleased with the assessments made by the Council of State in that letter on the proposal of the Progress Party. I would therefore like to ask her if she and the government can be open to support a proposal that will provide increased flexibility and better equality for those mothers who will quickly get into work after the parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e661	I agree that ensuring enough nursery places for all children is an important part of the gender equality policy and an important part of getting women and men back to work after the end of maternity leave. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the consumption and admission to our kindergartens, and some places there are two intakes. In some places it is also in practice continuous admission, because there is a surplus of kindergarten places. But it is not today that we have a continuous consumption of children for kindergarten. I think I'm supposed to say that I agree with the representative that it would have been the ideal, that you would have had a kindergarten right when you needed it. But it's a huge cost question, simply because there must be at any time enough empty spaces to receive children at short notice, depending on when the parents themselves want to send the child into the nursery. It's largely about economics, about having enough employees in the back to bring in children at any time in a year. I think the cost of such a scheme is so high that most of the parties in this room would have had trouble finding the money for it. Then it is not said that it is not possible to view this in other ways, or to help municipalities to ensure that more people are given the children's gardening space quickly, but it is nevertheless a major cost question. I would also like to stress, since the question comes from a supporting party for the former government, that I have not seen any proposals from the representative's own party to resolve this, during the eight years they have also been responsible for getting government budgets into port. So I share the concern, I hope this will improve something in the future, but unfortunately I can't promise that I'll find that money over the table right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e674	When such proposals are debated, the response of the civil service and the Council of State is, of course, that there is a great deal of concern about the costs. But the more people who get to work quickly, the faster the government also gets tax revenue. I showed instead to a case NRK had earlier this week, from Florø, where there has been a parental reaction in order for there to be more kindergarten admissions than just one a year. There were also several examples of people, especially mothers, who have been exposed to both education and career pathways because they do not have kindergarten in time. Although I understand what the Council of State says, do I wonder if she will confirm or believe that it would be socially negative to have a more flexible system than today, a more continuous recording system than what you have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e681	I don't think I'm going to answer questions about what's socio-economically profitable, but on behalf of women who have born children and who are happy to come back to work, I can at least say that it's a challenge for the families that are involved. I was and am still a resident of what was then a progressive party-driven municipality, when I applied for kindergarten. We had to wait for a time that many people have to, and it's clear that it's going to be stressful. The reason why I mention that it was a progressive party-driven municipality is that I think all parties have a desire to solve this, but we come back to the same thing, that it's a big cost question. That's why I'm honest about, and I think I can pretend to say, that I wish it was such that we were able to solve this even better for those who want kindergarten at a different time from what they're being offered today. But at the same time, I would say that with the sums that it means to make it a general arrangement in all the municipalities of the country, I don't think it's possible to get there now. But I'm glad that there's an engagement in the Progress Party that even women should return to work as soon as possible after the end of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e688	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e693	In recent years, the survey on Nav — to which reference has already been made today — shows that almost half of all newly-baked mothers have taken out unpaid leave, received a lot of attention. It's the findings that are very serious, both because it takes equality in the opposite direction, and because it clearly shows that politicians have made a system that the families don't want themselves. So the Christian People's Party still believes that we need to lift the rigid third and give the families much more flexibility. When a broad majority in this room voted for three-part parental leave, it was described as an important step towards ensuring real equality between mother and father as caregivers. The speed of Mother's return to work was highlighted as an important part of several. The Christian People's Party was the only party that voted against – because we listened to the families, and the families got right. For us, the best thing for children is the most important thing; it was almost not mentioned, almost not heard, in the debate earlier today. We think the families themselves know what's best for them. That's the whole point. Although a quota is a good incentive for father to take out leave – we support it, we don't want to remove it – it's still the way mother nurses the child. We can't decide that either. So it's not a connection to the third, we heard the council say. Greater flexibility and cut in the rigid thirds will not lead to the unremunerated perm going down, blacking out the council. But of course, freedom of choice will have a consequence, it is quite obvious. If the mothers have their share increased somewhat, as they wish, this will lead to the loss of unpaid leave. The Council of State replied and pointed out – as I hear it – that people still refuse to listen to families when they draw single voices rather than the width that points to the connection between thirds and unpaid leave. So once again, are we going to hold on to what gives the opposite of what was wanted? What does the Minister for Equal Opportunities think about the study? We in the Christian People's Party want an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e703	For the sake of order, it is the Minister for Childbirth who is responsible for the parental leave system, but as Minister for Gender Equality, I just want to say that it is extremely important for equality in family life. It's an undisputed fact that we need a strong spring quota to allow Norwegian fathers and the possibility of taking leave. When it is that we have the world's most prestigious parental leave scheme, it should be lacking that we do not also design it in such a way that it achieves some family policy objectives. The fact that one has a third and a strong quota for father, is primarily important for the child's relationship with father in the first period of life, but we also know a great deal about where father is at home, he also becomes more involved through growth. That's good for the equality in family life. We have numbers and research on this, and it is completely different in Norway than in very many countries where there are no such schemes. The representatives can say that as much as they want, but it's not like Mom's use of unpaid leave has a direct effect on the length of the spring quota. The fact that mothers – and fathers – take out unpaid leave is an increasing trend we have seen over the years, and there are complex reasons for it. But again, instead of attacking fathers' right to leave, perhaps the Christian People's Party could join in and see if we're going to change a little bit about the economic incentives that make it pay to take out the shortest period of leave of 100 pst. wages and salaries so as to charge unpaid leave. I'm willing to watch that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e710	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When I hear this, I'll be happy. I am proud of the Christian People's Party who listened to the families, because the families and parents got right. These are numbers in the survey that the Council of State cannot turn away from. The flexibility to which we add is also about caring for the role of fathers. It is quite obvious that connection is essential, and we know that parents can make those choices. Even I was home early, after just a few months, with the children. I've been a sidekick at four births, but there have been different needs at different times with the different children. Those choices the parents can actually make themselves. We hear that the aim of the third was to promote equality in the workplace. The result is the opposite. Unpaid care work has resulted in a loss of entitlement to sick pay, lower pension provision, interruption of work – this is well known by the Minister for Gender Equality – hampering wage growth and skills development. This is incredibly serious, and it leads to the opposite. And then we also hear that the Psychologists' Association says they're drawing their support, they're no longer in favour of the hearing response, because lack of flexibility and freedom of choice can affect the children. Again, will the Minister for Gender Equality continue to maintain the rigid regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e719	I have never said that the goal of third leave was more equality. The aim of third-party leave is for fathers to be entitled to take out leave and the right to be at home with their child for the first part of their lives. It's important for the child, and then you achieve some other good family and gender policy goals, but it's actually secondary. I will continue to fight for fathers' right to take out leave. It's not that you can point out some studies that say that it's the father's quota that makes mothers take out unpaid leave – they do that primarily because it pays off financially and because more people can do it. Then, of course, there's someone waiting in kindergarten. But this has been clearly stated by the researchers for a long time now. Today's leave system is not rigid, you have the opportunity to take out the whole mother's quota, the whole crowd, if you want. The fathers are entitled to 15 weeks and leave may also be taken as either hours, days or weeks for a period of three years. This is one of the world's most flexible and best schemes, and it does not harm the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e726	It is open for follow-up questions – first Day-Inge Ulstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e731	When I heard the answer, I had hoped for a somewhat more nuanced and complex explanation model related to this. Once again, in the case that the rigid system should have nothing to say: there are quite a number of clear voices, but here you choose to raise one of the answers. We have an incredible number of families who are very clear that this is important. Some of the main answers given in the Nav survey as a reason for taking unpaid leave were that one needed to be at home, that one wanted to be at home with the children, and not least that related to the need for breast-feeding beyond the rigid scheme — which is what they have responded to — gave them the opportunity. Therefore, the reality that the Minister for Equal Opportunities here promises is not, in line with what the wide range of families in Norway actually experience and have implications for the choices they make. That is why the Christian People's Party wants greater flexibility and freedom of choice. I have to ask again: will the Minister for Gender Equality still hold the rigid regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e740	I do not buy the premise that this arrangement is rigid. We have a welfare system that allows mothers and fathers to be at home with their child for a whole year. There is no other country that has such a good order. In most other countries, both mother and father go to work — or father never gets into leave, but mothers leave for work after weeks or a few months after the child is born. I also do not buy that because you have a 15-week father's allowance, it destroys for breast-feeding. This is with respect to reporting nothing but customs. The scheme is not rigid – the Christian People’s Party should listen to more families than only those who want Mother to be able to take out the entire leave. The Christian People's Party should listen more to the fathers of the country, all those who meet the opposition of the employer when taking leave. We know a lot about that, all the empirical evidence shows that when you cut in the feather ratio, fathers take out less leave. I am on the team with Norwegian fathers and will fight for their right to be caregivers when the children are young. That's good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e747	Then the oral question time is over, and we go over to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e761	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. Question 2, from the representative Ine Eriksen Soreide to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Question 4, by the representative, Mr Sigbjørn, to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, will be drawn up by the representative, Mr Helge André Njåstad. Question 13, from the representative Marie Snee Martinussen to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e785	I haven't asked questions that go to the State Council Borten Moe's responsibilities. I have asked questions to the Prime Minister. I can't see that the Prime Minister is here today. So I draw my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e799	I can't see that the representative is in the room. Then we move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e807	«The Council of State announced on 27 March a cut of several billion dollars in the planned NTNU Campus Collection. That alerted the cut to jeopardize the project. A collection of the NTNU campus is important to facilitate better education and research by strengthening cooperation across different disciplines. The challenges of the future are multidisciplinary, and Norwegian educational institutions need to adapt to them. Will the State Council ensure that the project is implemented in line with the plans laid down?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e814	It is in the nature of the matter that the answer to that question is clearly no. That project will not go further as planned, with a frame of nearly 12 billion. kr and a total extension of more than 120000 m 2. What the project looks like is too early to say. We will return to Stortinget in connection with the state budget for the autumn. What has now been clearly announced is going through the project to distill out what is most important, and it is moving Campus Dragvoll down to Glöshaugen. I feel that there is a great deal of consensus around the target image in the campus project. It is about putting in place what the representative Lønneth is also concerned about – multi-disciplinaryism and new, appropriate premises. But then we in the state build too big, and we build too expensive. I would add that the old government did not have a very conscious relationship with the cost development of the public sector construction projects. We see that the result now, with one ghost after another falling out of the closet. We do not build on that future. We have to manage the money we have, in a hapless and good way. My goal is to get to the NTNU campus collection, but it is also my goal that it should not cost more than what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e824	Thanks for the answer. In fact, the previous government deliberately chose both to bring down the framework of the NTNU merger and to make it a design-to-cost project. This is precisely about the experience of overcosting in other projects. Of course, I support the fact that you look at how the money is used wisely. What surprises me more about this matter is that the Council of State clearly and clearly cancels a project that the Council of State just a few months ago opted for. I feel that there has been cross-political agreement in Norway in and on its own and in Trøndelag in particular, which both Borten Moe and I represent, that this is a project that we should be able to realise. When you gain power, you go away from saying it's positive, even in Stortinget, that you have a design-to-cost framework, but you choose not to implement the project. The council was familiar with the costs of the project when he went to the elections. Why was he not honest that he would not carry it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e829	As I said in my previous answer, my goal is to implement the NTNU campus collection. If we add some kindness, I also heard the representative Lønneth say that she was in favour of not wasting money, that we should spend money in the most reasonable way possible. Then I choose to think that we agree on that assumption and that premise. We were so much concerned with this in the oral question procedure as well, related to the ‘design-to-cost’ methodology. I think it is a bit surprising and perhaps at the limit of naive to point to a methodology and say that it is a guarantee that the price does not get higher. In this project, it is such that the overwhelming importance is to move Dragvoll to Glöshaugen. You can't do that in pieces and divided by that. At least you can't do it half way, you have to do it all. It also means that if it turns out that the frame cracks, you can't end up with a situation where you move half of Dragvoll to Glöshaugen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e834	I agree that we can't end it, but that's why the Right in Government has made sure to provide a predictable framework that also NTNU says is sufficient, and that gives them good predictability. But they say that if you want to bring this down a lot more, you are at risk of not being able to realize the project. You can look for smarter ways to do it. For example, one should consider whether State Building might have organized itself in a different way. It's a question that we could discuss. But when the government's starting point is that this project is going to be cut down by billions, I think you can be honest that you don't necessarily want to carry it out, if you don't want to have a complete move. Otherwise, I do not feel that the Council of State answered my previous question. He made a choice to implement this project. He was then familiar with the costs involved in the project. Why do you choose to notify the voters about it after your choice and not before your choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e839	I am exceptionally clear that my goal is to have this project carried out. This is the starting point for the currently started process. If we had not meant that, we would not have come to give it the message. I experience a constructive and good atmosphere both in State Building and in NTNU. I think there is also the need to make the project more affordable. Let me make a comment on the overall cost framework. Had it now been so that we had been sure that it had kept to 11.8 billion. kr, it might have been more manageable than what is the general picture for the construction of large projects in the state and in my sector in particular, which is that these projects crack. They crack in time, they crack at cost. In addition, it is now that the prices of all construction products, raw materials, energy, metals and labour go straight to the ceiling, so there is no reason to believe that this project, just as little as a good part of other projects, will be able to keep its cost framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e849	This question, from the representative of Mr Framnes to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, is raised by the representative of Mr Helge André Njåstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e854	Our question is as follows: ‘The whole country is struggling with high fuel prices, and unfortunately the majority in this room have not reduced the fees. Fishing is profitable today, and they also have a great deal of fuel prices due to the energy crisis, war in Europe and a huge majority of people who pay them a CO 2 tax on top. A measure that can be assessed in this situation is an increase in the use of ship's quota and co-fishing systems. Is this something the Council of State will consider?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e864	Energy prices increased through 2021 and into 2022. The Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24 February led to an additional price increase, including: on crude oil. Increased oil prices have increased fuel prices, both internationally and in Norway, and high fuel prices create uncertainty and unforeseeability. The fishing fleet will also be affected by this, in line with other industries, industry and consumers. Although the fishing fleet now pays full CO 2 tax, mineral oil used for fishing and fishing, both in close and distant waters, is exempt from the base charge. The fees for fuel in the fishing industry are therefore lower than for other industries and households. In addition, the fishing fleet receives compensation for a significant proportion of what it pays in the CO 2 fee. Having said that, I also understand that this situation creates challenges for parts of the fishing fleet, and I have therefore had meetings with representatives from the industry on several occasions to discuss the situation. The industry has proposed a number of different measures, including: a temporary exemption from the CO 2 tax, the reintroduction of the refund scheme for the CO 2 tax, etc. Then it is the Minister of Finance who has the constitutional responsibility for the charging area. The government is following the situation on an ongoing basis, and the measures proposed will be considered together. During Storting processing of the quota notification, Notify. St. 32 for 2018–2019, a request decision was submitted in which the Stortinget asked ‘the government to ensure that the existing ‘co-fishing with itself’ regime in cod fisheries is closed by 31 December 2025. See Decision No. 556, 7 May 2020. The Government has announced a new notification of allowances, where issues related to the co-fishing system will also be addressed. I would like to make it clear that the co-fishing system is still in force, and the system can be used by two closed-group vessels with a length of not less than 11 metres under certain conditions. As regards the shipping quota scheme, it was last used to a very limited extent before the adoption of the structural quota scheme for the sea fishing fleet. It was discovered that the scheme gave several challenges, it was complicated to use, and it was therefore terminated. I do not believe that this is a system that is currently being reintroduced. I also do not think it appropriate to consider such an arrangement while a new allowance notification is under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e899	The answer was actually two-part. In the matters for which the Minister for Fisheries is responsible, he says that he does not want to do anything, and then he shows that the Minister for Finance probably does not want to do anything either. I may have felt that he had a desire to reduce the fees on the part of the Minister for Fisheries, but the Minister for Finance has said no. Fishing industries need help, and the best thing to do is to make sure that they can manage themselves, that we have profitable jobs, that we can make sure that business can operate. The last thing we need is a government that is waiting and watching and not acting. The obvious solution is to reduce the fees. So my follow-up question will then be: Will the Minister for Fisheries take a new round with the Minister for Finance to reduce the fees, either the CO 2 tax or general fuel taxes, which will hit both this industry and other industries that wear a lot a day?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e909	When it comes to the representative's interpretation of my answer, I think he can be allowed to be at peace. I guess I didn't quite know each other. Of course, there is close contact between the Minister of Finance and me on these issues. I would also like to stress that we should bear in mind that the fishing fleet has overall good profitability and high value creation and is perhaps, in general, among the industries that can best withstand the rise in prices. However, there are considerable differences, and the government is following this on an ongoing basis, so the measures that we are assessing in the area of fees are, of course, assessed together. The fishing industry has pointed out that the annual submission of a VAT task reinforces the liquidity challenges resulting from the increase in electricity prices, in which case, as primary industry operators, fishermen have a basic annual VAT task. However, after the end of the year in question, it is possible to submit a tax return and to apply for inclusion in the normal two-month deadline for value added tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e918	Of course, I think I have an interpretation of the answer for myself. I just thought I'd give the Minister of Fisheries a loophole in that he wants better framework conditions for his industry. That he then confirmed that he was as unwilling to reduce the fees as the Minister of Finance, takes note of us, both the industry and the representative. What we notice is that one has increased the CO 2 tax, that more and more vessels, especially those in the south, do well to go to Denmark to bunk. They don't charge them and they get cheaper bunkers, and climate change emissions because of a long lead is great. In addition, we see that the value creation is for other infrastructure where it is located in a country other than Norway. Is it at the Fisheries Minister's table to look at and take action to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness against Denmark, when one sees – quite clearly – the effect of the tax increases that have occurred in recent years in the fisheries industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e928	As I said, I have a close dialogue with the Minister of Finance, and we are assessing, among other things, concretely whether the temporary reintroduction of the old refund scheme for the CO 2 tax over the CO 2 compensation scheme could be a grip. However, this has administrative budgetary and competition implications that involve a complexity that requires us to spend some time on it. Then it is nice to note that the Progress Party – after they in the government increased the fees with what I believe on the move was about. 5 B.C.E. kr – has moved back to the world’s richest country and can afford all expenditure on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e944	‘Today, about 200 officers are trained annually in the Defence Department. According to analyses by the FFI, approximately a doubling of the number of officers trained is required, the size of the officer corps shall be maintained until 2040. A further increase is required to cover the planned personnel growth in the long-term plan. How will the Council of State monitor the capacity of war schools to train the required number of officers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e951	In order to support the maintenance of the defence, as the representative said, the training capacity must also be strengthened in the years to come. This implies strengthening the Defence College with both several employees and the EBA facilities. In the implementation of the long-term plan, it is up to the head of defence to further detail the staff increases, including adapting the training capacity and volume within the priorities set out in the long-term plan. The defence has already increased the quota beyond the 200 referred to in the analysis, in the light of the planned personnel growth in the long-term plan. However, as this analysis is also involved, the further build-up of defence must be linked to further structural development. This is a laborious work that I think it would be unwise to go in and control the details. I have full confidence that the head of defence will go through and assess the issues covered by the defence analysis, including the possible need for increased training quotas, and that he will also, if necessary, explain changing assumptions and new needs through the formal budget and governance processes between the department and the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e958	Thanks for the answer. It is positive that the Council of State will increase the capacity of the war schools, but at worst it may be easier said than done. What are the limitations that the Council of State sees as being capable of achieving the necessary educational capacity at the war schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e963	As the representative himself understands, some of the challenges associated with this have been done quickly enough in the context of the implementation of the long-term plan. So this government has ambitions that go beyond the long-term plan, in terms of staff recruitment. It requires training capacity. Something has already been done: measures have been taken for EBA, property, construction and construction, to make the necessary adaptations to buildings. So I'm waiting for the Chief of Defense to come back with a detailed plan for what this should look like in the future. When we look a little bit ahead in time, the need will be back on 200 officers. So it's also important not to increase capacity too much at an early stage so that you get an overcapacity in maybe four to five years, when it looks like, according to the plan, that we will have a slightly lower need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e972	Given that the capacity is increased and that the restrictions are managed, a report from the FFI, the Swedish Defence Research Institute, shows that there will not be a sufficient number of senior posts, i.e. positions of competence at the level where a fully educated cadaver normally enters after the completed war school. How will the Council of State ensure a sufficient number of positions that are competent at the level of a pre-educated cadre?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e979	As I said in my previous answer, the government has ambitions that go beyond the current long-term plan for increasing the personnel force in the Defense. When it comes to facilitating positions of competence, it is within the terms of reference of the Chief of Defence, and what he is to facilitate. I have great confidence in the head of defense, in his judgements and in his way of running the department, and that he will return to the department if further action is needed, in addition to what is within his powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e987	‘The Minister of Defence informed in Question Time on 1 December that he had initiated an external review of both the economy and other challenges that remain on Evenes, linked to the establishment of Evenes as the new base for P-8 maritime surveillance aircraft. The council also said that he aimed for the review to be completed in February. Now we're at the end of March. Can the Councils tell how far this work has come, what has been decided, and what is possible to clarify in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e994	It's quite right, as was said, that I took an initiative in an external review of the development of Evenes, not only what is related to MPA, but also what is related to QRA, i.e. a total review of the costs of implementing the development of Evenes. That report came to the department on 4 April – a bit delayed, a lot of work. That report has come. We are now reviewing the report to see if there are any issues in the report that need or should be exempted from public disclosure and aim to publish the report before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e999	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am happy to hear that the report has come, if anything delayed, he has at least come to the Ministry of Defence. I look forward to learning more about the challenges that remain at Evenes. So we now know that Defence Building has asked to trigger large parts of the uncertainty provision in the MPA project at Evenes, and says that there is a need for more money for several of the measures. Can the Council of State now tell whether it has a better overview of the actual costs of making Evens the base of the maritime surveillance flights?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1006	Now, unfortunately, the actual costs will only know exactly when the expansion is completed. But the external report from Holte takes into account the remaining projects, both those within the KVU, and what lies in the level of ambition in the landfill that was promoted in 2020, which I on the move do not remember the number, and the remaining work. I Prop. 151 S for 2015–2016 was the cost of Evenes estimated at 3.5 billion. kr for development for both QRA and MPA. The frame is now 5.2 billion. kr. We're going to end it, it's not a secret. There's numbers where the highest numbers are up to 8 billion. NOK, but it depends a little on what will be included in the project. When the report is published, it's going to be visible what's at the different levels that we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1011	I'll thank you once again for your answer. There are large amounts of money involved, and the cost picture has clearly changed much compared to what was made on the basis of the decision to move the MPA base from Andy Island to Evenes. Does the State Council mean that there is an upper limit on how much the community will pay to implement this move?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1018	I think I'll underline one more time that it's not just about moving the MPA. This concerns the overall development where a significant part of the costs is also linked to the QRA, which had been adopted to Evens as early as 2012. But there's a lot of numbers we're talking about. It has been shown that the condition of the building has been partly worse than that which was taken into account. There have been projects that had to be implemented, which were not in the plan, and we have had a significant increase in costs in the construction industry that also contributes. So there's big numbers, and we're spending a lot of time doing a thorough review of this. But the first thing I'm aiming at is that the report is going to be public, so there won't be any speculations about secrecy of numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1023	Then we go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1031	This question, from the representative of Ine Eriksen Soreide to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1036	Thank you for the flexibility of both the President and the Council of State. When I was on my way here, the first question asked was from the pulpit, and then a few minutes in my time too. My question is as follows: ‘Recently, we have seen reports of progressive conflict-related sexualisation and gender-based violence by Russian forces in Ukraine. In 2019, the Solberg government organised an international conference on the theme in Oslo, and has been working systematically over many years to combat conflict-related sexualised and gender-based violence, including through the UN, regional organisations and civil society. How will the government help to assist the increasing number of victims of sexualised violence resulting from the war in Ukraine?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1045	I thank the representative Eriksen Soreide for focusing on an unusually important question. The Russian warfare in Ukraine has enormous consequences, not least for the civilian population of Ukraine. Norway decided early to set up with significant funds, and many of them are channelled towards protection, food, shelter, medical assistance, etc. After all, civil protection is an important and permanent priority for the Norwegian Government, as it has been through several governments and under several foreign ministers. The messages of conflict-related sexualised violence from the war zones in Ukraine are, as the representative says, very, very alarming, heartbreaking, insurgent and unacceptable. Together with our ground partners in Ukraine and neighbouring countries, we have now stepped up efforts to protect against conflict-related sexualised and gender-based violence, for access to sexual and reproductive health services, and we have underlined that there should be a clear priority in the humanitarian response in Ukraine and neighbouring countries. At the same time, the world community must do more to combat impunity and ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice. There is something this government puts high on the agenda in our dialogue with other states and central partners, including in our work in the Security Council. Here, too, we are based on a tradition that has been widely agreed on, and that the representative also stood for when she was Minister for Foreign Affairs. Together with a number of other countries, Norway has referred the situation in Ukraine to the International Criminal Court, ICC. In fact, this is the first time Norway has stood behind a party referral to the criminal court. The reference to the situation in Ukraine is a clear message that war crimes will be investigated. The UN Human Rights Council has also set up a Commission chaired by the Norther Erik Møse, former Supreme Court judge and judge of the EMD, to underline all possible violations of humanitarian law and human rights in Ukraine. Norway, of course, actively supports this process. The International Red Cross Committee and the UN Population Fund, UNFPA, which attended the conference in Oslo in 2019, are key partners for Norway, also now, in the response to conflict-related sexualised and gender-based violence. UNFPA has been present in Ukraine since 1997, and is a leading UN organisation, including for sexual and reproductive health, and is responsible for coordinating what is called a gender-related violence cluster. Norway, has contributed support to UNFPA to scale up services related to survivors of gender-based violence, both in Ukraine and in neighbouring countries. The Red Cross movement plays an important role in this. Similarly, partner organisations such as Caritas and the Church's Emergency Aid which also work against trafficking in human beings in relation to the Ukrainian refugees do, because this problem does not necessarily end at the Ukraine border, but can unfortunately continue. The government will continue to have a big and clear press on this very important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1060	I thank you for your answer. The work the government is doing now, of course, has full support of the Right. I think that's all reason to expect that there are far more Butshas than what we've seen now. Eyewitnesses coming out are atrocious. I had a video meeting yesterday with representatives of the Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Committee, and one of what they're saying is that obtaining and collecting documentation and evidence is important now. Right now it's impossible to get into Mariupol, where they assume that there are also very many victims of gross sexual crimes. But the only ones that now seem to be able to give some kind of diploma are those who have already been killed, because they can be investigated. Those who are survivors, dare not tell, for they are afraid of retaliation. My question is how, together with other countries, we can contribute to the collection and documentation of what is now happening, so that it is possible to prosecute those responsible, for this is unfortunately an area with a high degree of impunity, and it cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1069	I basically agree with that challenge, and I can assure the Storting that this is something the government is taking very seriously. It is very important to create a culture to combat impunity, to ensure that information is collected when it is available. And even though the law's long arm often works slowly, it's important that it works. It is precisely when you have the most recent evidence that you have to collect the evidence, and that support has to be made clear both that this is an important priority, nationally and internationally against our partners, and to support all the partners that are already mentioned, and more, which can help to ensure that this collection is carried out in a credible and verifiable way, which can then be seen in future international legal cases. Because there are few things on this agenda that are more important than taking care to prevent long-term impunity, while, of course, we are going to work on dealing with the victims that are there, here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1074	I'm glad to hear that, because I think we can easily agree that sexual and gender-based violence in conflict is not a side-effect of the war – it's a weapon in the war, and it's now being used very actively, among other things. to punish the resistance shown by the Ukrainians to the Russian invasion. There was also another point in the meeting, and it was related to the rehabilitation of victims. And I know there's a significant effort here at home when refugees come to Norway. And I know that Kripos is also involved in helping to collect evidence and contribute to the investigation of those who come here. Another question is whether it is possible to increase support for rehabilitation in and around Ukraine. We have many good and strong centres of expertise in Norway for this. The question is whether the government can also assess whether, for example: The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress can contribute with its competence towards these victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1083	The last thing I think is a good idea and a good input that I'm going to take on to those who are dealing with this. I believe that, unfortunately, we have some experience with just that type of collection. In the case of previous flight waves, treatment and information acquisition have also been considered. I just want to stress once again that it's incredibly important. Then I want to say that I also very much agree with what was the representative Eriksen Soreide's introduction to this last question. Once upon a time, it was thought that sexualized violence was a kind of sad effect of chaos created by the war, that is, unfortunately, it happened, it should be limited, but it was not part of the war itself. Knowledge from at least the last 30 years has shown that it is often part of the purpose of war that this is actually used as a weapon to terrorize the civilian population – the actual victim, but also the victim's family, because there are few things that are more destructive than putting this into a situation. It's also important to be clear and talk loud about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1090	Then we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1098	«Defence building advertises on finn.no Mågerø clay, a large beach zone property at Tjøme in the municipality of Færder, for sale. The text that advertises with 91 objectives self-ownership stands in stark contrast with the Hurdal platform, which underlines the protection of the beach zone and the public interest in press areas as particularly important. Does the government have a plan to manage publicly owned beach zone properties against this objective in the government platform, and how does it fall to lay Mågerø camp for sale in this way within that plan?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1105	The government has it. The government also fully agrees with the representative Aydar’s point that it is important to protect the beach zone, and that it is important to protect the more stringent than has been the case for many years now, where there has been too much slipping – and in fact I believe that this is also the case here. Defence construction announced in April 2021 that they would dispose of the Air Force station at Mågerø at Tjøme in the municipality of Færder. After a process between the Swedish Defence Agency, the Environment Directorate and the local authorities, we were able to publish together just before Christmas that 420 covers of the former defence property have been secured for outdoor life. With this protection, a large and attractive natural area has become available to the public in the open air until the Oslofjorden. The property is a total of 520 dekar, and most of the property is thus already secured to outdoor life. The area currently sold is that part of the property which has a building and which represents only 91 decks of the total area of the property of 520 decks. This area is mainly located in the middle of the peninsula. Air defence had extensive construction and technical installations on the property for which it is not really needed in the context of outdoor life. Diverging the built-up areas of beach property is an established way to ensure attractive beach properties for outdoors. In this way, municipalities can purchase expensive beach properties where the built area is separated and sold separately, while the open-air areas of the property become just open-air areas for the general public. It is this procedure that Defence Building has chosen in this matter, in cooperation with the Environment Directorate and the Municipalities. This has resulted in large and attractive natural areas along the Oslofjorden that have now become available to the public. When state properties are to be disposed of, it is always first assessed whether it is appropriate to purchase from a public body to, for example: outdoor life purposes. This happens regularly, and I think the case at Mågerø is actually a good example of the disposal processes happening in a way that takes care of important public interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1120	I am continuing to ensure the rights of all persons and the strict policy of the Hurdal platform in coastal zone management. For example, Red set aside 75 million. kr extra for public buying-in of beach area in our alternative budget, while the pot for State securing open-air areas in the government budget is just over 30 million. kr. For example, in the municipality of Herøy, an entire archipelago is for sale to the highest bidder. According to real estate agents, spending on the open market seems to be a trend. These are expensive properties, but they are also very valuable to both locals and tourists. Does the State Council consider the system of State guarantees to open air areas to be important? I read it like he thinks, from his answer, and I thank him for that, but does he also see the opportunity to strengthen it, so that more areas of the beach zone can benefit the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1125	The answer to that is yes. I share the purpose and can enjoy answering that we do. In fact, we want to tighten up the rights of all people – it is a very important democratic principle. That means that ordinary people have access to the beach zone, not just those who pay for the property there, and that's why we have to do it with even greater power. So the concrete thing we talked about now is an illustration in a way that can be done. We take the building mass in the middle of the island, which is the least attractive for outdoor use, and we sell it, and that way you can guarantee the public's right to the rest of the island, that is, the area that is most attractive for outdoor use. There is one solution among several, and we're definitely going to look at it and similar solutions elsewhere, because when you dispose of not least state property, it's a good opportunity to increase public access to open-air areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1132	I very much agree with what the Council of State says that this is a good opportunity to increase public access to beach areas. It is paradoxical when property that has been owned by the State is not returned to the public but is offered for sale in the private market. Privatisation and degradation of the coastal zone is a major problem. For example, in the interior of Oslofjord is 70 pst. by the beach zone inaccessible to the public, and my home town, Oslo, here we are, is the city where the fewest square meters of beach area is available per capita. So this is a big problem also beyond my main question, and for all the thousands of people, for example. in Oslo and the rest of Norway that cannot afford to buy their own private shoreline, publicly available areas are essential and incredibly important. When we see that more people are placed on the open market, do I wonder if the Council of State agrees that the aim of the State should be to ensure more access in recreational areas rather than to realise property gains on the private market?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1139	Yes, I think the state should have that goal, and it also has the state under this government as its goal, that we should just use these opportunities to strengthen the rights of all people and use the opportunities we have to outsource areas for sale. You can do that by buying, or you can do it by selling the parts of the property that have the most commercial value in relation to, for example, existing construction, and then other areas are made available – there are several models for it. In order to speed this up, during the year we will establish what we call a coastal zone network for the Oslo Earth, where municipalities, county councils and state administrators will help to strengthen the competence of the management of the coastal zone, and where the aim is to promote the public's open-air life and access to the coastal zone. A separate grant scheme has also been established this year for the municipalities along the Oslofjorden, which is the one that is the most heavily burdened. By supporting legal work to remove illegal barriers and closures in the coastal zone, we can also help to strengthen the public's right to movement, because there are some barriers introduced by private individuals in violation of the law, and we can remove them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1149	‘In the 1950s, Russian researchers launched Pacific salmon on Kola. The species then spread to Norway and eastern Finland, where the first individuals were caught in 2007. Since then, the volume of fish has increased dramatically, with catches from Bordere Jakobselv and to Akerselva. According to the magazine Ságat, Norwegian salmon fishermen fished in 2021 approx. 70 tonnes of Pacific salmon. The evening post estimates the volume of still sea salmon in Norwegian rivers to be 100,000 individuals, or 150 tonnes. What is the strategy and measures of the government for the new species that are now invading Norwegian waters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1156	The representative Hansen correctly describes the history that has now led to the humpback salmon being a foreign species that poses a major threat to the ecosystems in our rivers. The increase in the number of individuals in Finnmark has been particularly dramatic. The invasions come in odd years, with only a slight rise in the middle years. 2022 is such an interim year, while in 2023 there may unfortunately be as many as one million individuals up Norwegian rivers. Therefore, last year, in 2021, an action plan was drawn up for further work to combat hunches in Norwegian rivers. With the background of the big invasion we had last year, it was granted 15.3 million. kr for the control of hive salmon in the year’s budget. These funds will primarily be used for the purchase, assembly and smoking of flotation traps in priority watercourses in eastern Finland. We plan to try out both these traps and other fishing methods during the season in order to gain experience with the impending invasion expected in 2023. Furthermore, on behalf of the Ministry of Climate Change and the Environment, the Environment Directorate has set up a national Pukkellass Expertise Group. The group consists of experienced researchers in the field, management and representatives with local knowledge of the conditions in Finnmark. The Directorate-General for the Environment heads the group and has established its own position only for work on hunches. Now, after several seasons with the extraction of hive salmon in Norwegian streams, some experience has been gained that is important to know and further develop. The terms of reference of the group of competences are therefore inter alia: to propose the framework and recommendations for the eradication of hive salmon, in consultation with the local population. This will also mean how local knowledge, resources and traditional tools can be used to combat this alien species. There is further dialogue with the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea to see if it can also be possible to exploit knowledge from the fisheries and aquaculture industries. Trials of defrosting measures in the main rivers of Finnmark have now proved to be insufficiently effective. The Competence Group is therefore working within tough deadlines to find better solutions for the extraction of mulch salmon in large watercourses. This is a matter that the Ministry of Climate and Environment prioritises very high, and our strategy is, of course, to reduce the rise in humpback salmon populations, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1169	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as the Council of State says, that we expect it to be about 2023. One million individuals, 1 500 tons, with this Pacific salmon. In terms of volume, it actually represents twice as much as the Atlantic salmon. As regards the Atlantic salmon, the question is also how to deal with it in terms of Norwegian rivers in order to catch the population, which is red-listed – in part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1176	So I can just join that description, because the Atlantic salmon – which we want – is red-listed, so it's too little of it, while the hunchback salmon, which we don't want, is too much of. So then it's very central that we in our fight against the humpback salmon make sure to avoid that there's too much by-catch of Atlantic salmon. This is precisely why we need to see this in context, because here we need to achieve two objectives: to preserve a red-listed species and to combat a alien species that we do not want. So it's very important to point out the relationship between the Atlantic salmon and the humpback salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1181	In the case of fish for hive salmon, it is such that the hive salmon is of value when it is in the sea. When it gets into the river, it'll necessarily get this so-called dome after a short time. With the large number of individuals, that's one million conservatively estimated, I'm going to expect that the value of this will be several hundred million dollars, given that we can find a commercial market. But that means we have to catch it in the sea. Then is my question to the Council of State, since we've cut off large-scale sea salmon fishing: will this be an opportunity for marine salmon fishermen to still hold the tradition they've had, by being an actor to clean up the Pacific salmon problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1186	Then we'll get back to the previous problem, the dilemma between the salmon we want to keep and treat that you're going with a reddish-listed species, and the humpback salmon. Of course, I would like to work closely with the Minister for Fisheries and Aquaculture – I already do – on how we can solve this. It's true that the hump salmon is a resource if it's fished at the right time, it's definitely a food fish. At the same time, of course, the aim is to combat it, but what you fish because you're going to fish it out is a resource that of course can also be traded. There's nothing wrong with it, as long as you take care of what the purpose is, namely to fight this as a alien species. So in this dilemma, we have to find some good solutions. We haven't all already, but at least we've put our best people to work with that, with this working group that I just described.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1197	‘In a letter to the Association of Bird Dog Clubs and local members, dated 28 February of this year, the Directorate for the Environment states that applicants for the release of pheasants and partridges for 2022 must consider that such authorisation will not be granted. How can the Council of States permit one of his underlying bodies to show such disrespect and reject an application before it is promoted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1204	I would like to say that the Environment Directorate here has acted quite respectfully and not disrespectfully, because in the letter Hoksrud refers to, the Environment Directorate has wanted to inform the Bird Dog Clubs Association on the status of the knowledge base on the release of birds for bird dog training prior to any application procedure for 2022. As I understand the letter from the Environment Directorate, any applications for 2022 will be dealt with in the usual way, not rejected until they are promoted. The Directorate for the Environment writes that any applications for release for 2022 must be assessed and determined on the basis of the best available knowledge at the time the applications are processed, which, according to the Directorate, is the same knowledge base on which the application was based in 2021. The Environment Directorate will also collect up-to-date information from the Food Authority. The Environment Directorate’s letter must also be read in the light of the Climate and Environment Ministry’s then complaint decision of 2021 on the release of birds for bird dog training. It appears from the decision that the Ministry gave decisive emphasis to predictability to applicants. The decisions came during the time period the birds normally set out. The applicants had complied with previous year's permits, and the birds had already been imported and bred. In the appeal decision, the Ministry also underlined the need to acquire additional knowledge on the impact on natural diversity and animal welfare through the release of pheasant and partridge, and that new knowledge could lead to changes in assessments of possible future applications. In subsequent letters to the applicants, the Ministry also underlined that there could be changes in the practice of the 2022 legislation. So what you've wanted to point out is that you can't necessarily assume that you get the same answer in 2022 that you got in 2021, and I think it's both polite and respectful to tell you about it. Then, of course, applications should be dealt with on the usual basis, and no preliminary conclusion has been reached in the cases of the Environment Directorate. In addition to that, I will not say so much about what I want to do, because I am the Board of Appeal, and then it is wise to wait until any complaint is received.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1213	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I have to say that with the treatment that was in 2021, how the Environment Directorate behaved then, and with this letter, I have at least a great deal of understanding of the concern of bird dog clubs and how they experience the answer that has come here. Many will probably think that this is not necessarily a big matter, but for those who are involved in this, it means a lot, and you are concerned about it. It really means that maybe we're going – at least I don't know anyone else – to be the only country in the world that forbids this. That means that we're going to be the only country where those who run this and these types of dogs don't risk getting that opportunity. I think it's special. Although the Council of State is unlikely to respond, on the grounds that he is the Board of Appeal, I could imagine that the Council of State said something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1220	At least the Council of State can say that I understand that for those who are concerned about this, this is important. This is often the case with things that the public may not spend most of their time on – it is important for those concerned, and all people should be treated with respect and received proper answers from the authorities. I fully agree with Mr Hoksrud on that. So I think it's worth noting that you can't assume that you get the same answer that you got last year, really is neat behavior from a public authority, because a new knowledge base is being developed. There is no doubt that there is a trend in both Norway and other related countries towards more emphasis on natural diversity and animal welfare considerations. At some point there may be a change in policy, and that is what the Environment Directorate has pointed out here. We are waiting for the applications and any decisions and complaints that may have to be made and move on to them, but at least I think it is neat that the Directorate-General for the Environment would draw attention to the need to calculate another outcome, without pre-conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1229	Since there are birds we are talking about, it might be interesting to point out that some birds have whispered to the undersigned that it is not strange to ask questions about how the Environment Directorate has behaved. It may also be that, in the light of this letter and how the case has been obtained, the department of the directorate that might have to deal with the matter has also made itself involved. What I think is special, and then it clearly shows that you can ask some questions about how the Environment Directorate has worked here. I do not feel that it is as clear and clear and tidy from the Environment Directorate as the Council of State expresses from the Chair here, when we know what the process was like in 2021, and in the end it was the department that overrun the Environment Directorate. There are also major questions about the professional justifications and what the Environment Directorate uses, which may actually belong to the Food Authority, which is the other one there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1236	I assume that the President agrees that the Council of State's responsibility began on 14 October 2021, so I feel very little need neither to defend nor to distance myself from anything that must have happened before my watch. On the other hand, I take responsibility for what has happened after I joined, and after this government joined, and we would like to be measured by what we do in the period we sit and are responsible for this. There is no doubt that when the Environment Directorate is working on this matter, the Food Safety Authority is one of the bodies with which they cooperate and collect input. So they have a mission that works as best as possible to balance general considerations for, for example: natural diversity and animal welfare against other considerations, such as: the need these users have here. I think they'll do that in an unhindered way. So there is an opportunity to complain, and that complaint will perhaps land on my table. When it had to, I'll say what I mean about it, and that's the right time for good administrative tradition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1246	‘Does the Council intend to ensure that Ukrainian refugees with children will receive child benefits from their residence permit and that Ukrainian refugees who are pregnant can receive one-off benefits?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1251	Russia's invasion of Ukraine has created a particularly serious situation for the people there and has sent many people on the run. Some of them are coming to Norway, and we're going to accept them well. The representative of Skelstad addresses the issue of single payment and child welfare at birth. The entrance fee is governed by the law of the People's Republic of China and is covered by the general provisions for membership of the People's Republic of China. People living in Norway are compulsory members of the population, and as a general rule, a person who comes to Norway will be regarded as resident in Norway when the suspension is meant to last at least 12 months. In order to be eligible for membership of the people, it is necessary for the person concerned to reside legally in Norway. This means that the person has a residence permit or other legal basis for the suspension. Before granting a residence permit, a person is covered by the social security rights of asylum seekers. The provision doesn't qualify for a one-time benefit. So a woman who gives birth before she has a residence permit doesn't want to be a member of the population and thus not have the right to a one-time benefit. The right to child protection is governed by the Child Protection Act and depends on whether the child is considered to be resident in Norway. Children who have applied for asylum in Norway are considered to be living here as early as the calendar month for which a decision on asylum or residence permits has been taken in Norway. Residence permits for those with temporary collective protection are granted for 12 months, and as child-restraint laws are formulated today, the child must intend to stay in Norway for more than 12 months, i.e. for at least 12 months and one day. So child welfare laws are different from the people's protection laws, where the requirement is that the suspension is meant to last at least 12 months. This means that persons with temporary collective protection do not have the right to child protection under today's law. Whenever there is a one-time benefit for those who don't have a rest period, I don't see any reason to suggest any special exceptions to the usual conditions for those who are displaced from Ukraine. Equal treatment is an important principle that must also apply here. When it comes to child welfare for those who receive temporary collective protection, this is a problem that I am aware of, and which the government is now considering more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1264	Since 25 February there have been 9,772 applications for asylum in Norway from Ukrainian citizens. Most who come are women and children, because the men remain in Ukraine to fight the invasion force, which the Council of State is sure to be aware of. However, on a principle basis, the Left believes that Norway must take responsibility for the fact that those who remain in Ukraine do not have to worry about their family in Norway. Unfortunately, we can't do enough for those who are here not to worry about those who are not here. But those who are in Ukraine must not worry about anything but their own security. I hear the Council of State's response, but I will again ask: will the Council of State be able to take an initiative to prevent children from suffering, to take an initiative to change the regulation she presented instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1269	In my answer, I did well to say that, in my opinion, it is a difference to ask asylum seekers to be entitled to a one-time benefit before they have been suspended. In this case, there will be a discrimination between asylum seekers who come in general and those who come from Ukraine. Once you've been given a break, women will be able to get a one-time benefit. What may be more challenging is that today there is a difference in the length of stay between the child-restraint law and the other law. I have told you that I will look closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1274	We don't know how long this conflict will last, nor what the consequences will be over time. At least now, the Council of State answers a little more openly in question two than in question one. I am so pleased with that. But I hope the Council of State agrees with me that we cannot create such a bureaucratic system that the kids become a caste ball in the system and suffer because of it, and will be condemned to poverty while they are here. I hope at least that the Council of State shares my views on it, and that if this conflict will last longer, an assessment will consider how to proceed in terms of both child welfare and one-off welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1279	I can assure the representative that I will ensure that the children and women who come to Norway are well cared for. When it applies to those who do not receive single payment until they have been granted a residence permit, they are covered by other financial arrangements. They often live on a reception and will receive a payment and help according to the guidelines of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. So also then one should be taken care of. When it comes to the right to child welfare, I have done well to ensure that today's laws are slightly different from the requirement of how long children and parents have planned to be in Norway. It might seem that it's not good that there are different rules for it. I'll take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1289	‘The road authorities of the Member States had plans for 3 tunnels through the Kvönang Mountain. New Roads changed this to 2, and shortened the length of the tunnel by 400 metres. Meanwhile, there is a race across the E6 where the intended tunnel has been removed from the project. What does the Ministry of Transport do to ensure that the order becomes a full-year path that can be kept open 24/7?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1296	I was running the area myself only a short time ago. I was at the E6 Women's Mount on Monday, and there I saw the beginning of what is going to be a road with better accessibility and obviously also greater security and security for the users of the road. The project was transferred to Nye Veier in the summer of 2019, and now 2 1⁄2 years later the work is in full swing. Total contractor Leonhard Nilsen & Sons has come more than 1,000 meters into the mountain. New roads did not receive additional funds to expand this route. New Veier's funding for the expansion of the Kvänang mountain comes from savings achieved by the company on other sections of the company's development portfolio. The development of the tunnel in the Kvänang mountain was planned by the State Road Administration during the action plan period 2018-2023, but the funding was missing. In the same action plan, the State Road Administration had proposed that the Mettevoll tunnel, i.e. the Kvänang mountain south, be expanded as a tailoring measure. The measure was planned to be implemented between 2024 and 2029, but it was not indicated for start-up years. The third tunnel, in order to secure the Rakkenes, did not have a financing plan for – either in the national transport plan or in the action programmes of the State Road Administration. The length of these tunnels was assessed by Nye Veier in the regulatory plan according to the project triggering need. Design, length and location are based on current manuals and tailor-made assessments. There have been very high hazards in the area in winter, and there have been several steps. Someone left has closed the E6. These steps will be a good solution for the new tunnels being built. That means the steps are going where New Roads have designed tunnels. One of the steps in Mettevoll never came down on the E6 and did not cause any closure of the road. But the escape came in an area where the less likely to leave. However, scraping and sledging are to be built. It is up to New Roads to assess the extent of development within the sections for which the company is responsible, and we have to be confident that our professional authorities will solve the tasks they are set to do. In this project, it is to ensure the availability and safety of E6 Women's Rights Mountain users for the purpose. I am sure that New Roads will complete a project that will solve the major challenges with frequent winter closure of E6 over the Kvänang Mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1311	I thank the Council of State for its response. We're aware that this is between Troms and Finnmark County, and it's very critical for the area that we actually have a runable road. It is 700 km away if you have to drive through Finland. That's why the Progress Party is very concerned that we're getting a dangerous path. On a general basis, the state road system itself has provided for innovative solutions to make more money available in our country. There are now several companies that are working on the use of other structures that can replace tunnels along rascal routes, including Norwegian companies. It could prove to be far more reasonable and not least solve the challenges this route poses. Will the Council consider amending the State Road Service Manuals to facilitate new technologies that can solve the race-related challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1320	It's a very interesting perspective, in which I also got a thorough introduction to my inspection on Monday, where we looked at other sections where the Troms and Finnmark county councils use other technology – radar surveillance, a step-by-step, so-called Daisy Bell to solve the problem. There are clearly opportunities in both the future and the present here to use technology to take more cost-effective action to create security and security in the systems. It is obvious that what is already being done at both county and state level by pilot projects will at some point manifest itself in clear guidelines. Whether it's in a manual or otherwise, I'll probably be careful to fix it right here and now, but I'm optimistic on behalf of the process of exploring new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1327	I would like to thank the Council of State again for the answer. When it comes to my last question, the Council of State has already answered that question, so I thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1337	‘The Hurdals platform states that the government will secure the maternity ward in Kristiansund. In the state budget, 25 million dollars have been set to provide, among other things, reopening of the food supply in Kristiansund. Nevertheless, the maternity ward is still closed, and women have to travel for several hours to get a food supply. It's an unsustainable situation, and many of the midwives feel cheated by the government's promises without results. What in the world is the $25 million spent on?"
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1344	Health Møre and Romsdal work with the aim of reopening a professionally sound food supply in Kristiansund, after this was temporarily collected at the Molde hospital last February. The decision to reopen the food supply in Kristiansund is followed up. The government has also chosen to provide specific resources to the health business, as a contribution to the success of reopening. When the maternity ward in Kristiansund had to be closed in February last year, the reason for this was lack of professionals, high temporary work and a business that was not professionally sound. The health company has been active in reopening. The main measure has been to recruit more professionals. They have succeeded to some extent and have recruited both gynecologists and midwives. In January of this year a midwifery ward was opened in Kristiansund. The health business has made a major contribution to the further training of midwives throughout the health business. They have also launched a recruitment campaign with an international recruitment agency, and they have worked both nationally and internationally to recruit gynecologists. After that, 25 million. kr was granted, the health business has used funds for the training of midwives, which has been partly made possible by the exceptional means. They have invested in recruitment supplements for newly educated midwives, and they have employed several doctors in specialisation. In the long term, the drugs will have the effect of educating more midwives and more gynecologists. It is important to ensure a safe food supply in More and Romesdal, also in the future. The health undertaking is still lacking professionals in order to provide a final date for reopening. There has been no economy that has limited reopening possibilities, either before or after the special allocation. Recruitment to small maternity wards is a challenge in many places. At the same time, I would like to point out that the inhabitants of More and Romesdal have a safe and sound supply of food.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1355	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. But that's how the government has been clear that this is going to reopen. Representatives from the government parties have been very clear that this is going to happen. It's still exposed, it should have been in place on December 1st last year. That's how this government says they follow closely and evaluate and see how to do things. So now the expectations in More and Romesdal, in Kristiansund, are that this is going to work. Before Christmas it was said that a gynecologist was missing in the maternity ward in Kristiansund so that it could open, and yesterday we could read in the requirements of time that the last, the fifth, gynecologist has signed, but still there is no date for reopening. Why does the Council of State not instruct the health business and ask for it to be reopened immediately, now that qualified personnel are actually in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1360	The responsibility for professionally sound conduct lies at local level with the professionals responsible for the offer. That the council would take over the offer, I believe had been a poor solution. I believe that professionals with the right skills must make those assessments. The reason why you haven't reopened is that you don't have enough professionals to handle a 24-7 shift load, which a maternity ward needs to have. It must be ready 24 hours a day to receive children safely and meet the professional requirements of a maternity ward. We have several categories of food supply in Norway, and a maternity ward must have Gynecologist preparedness on guard, and that is the explanation that no date has yet been set.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1365	I then perceive that the Council of State will not instruct and will not ensure that the decision of Storting is followed up immediately, because this is therefore about the fact that new people are now employed. The size has been very clear and clear, the government parties have been high on the track and out and the front how great this would be, that this would be in place. Extra money was granted, but it cannot be perceived in any other way than an example, and a rather extreme example, that the Storting decision is not being followed up. It may actually look a little bit like «Javel, Mr. State Council», the series that I think many have both seen and remember – and that the Council of State thinks it's okay that it should still be like that, but it doesn't do the Progress Party. There's impatience among the gangster guerrillas, who have been on and also been here in the house and wondered where it's going to be of this. It could be interesting if you could see the bill soon; where the $25 million. NOK has passed, how much has been used, and when you get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1370	It's not right that the representative Hoksrud says. First of all, it's not right that we don't follow the decision of the Storting, we do. They've been told what's going on, what's the big deal, and they're working on it. The government has even given them an extra financial handshake to achieve that goal. The representative Hoksrud must take the mirror out and look at himself, for he has supported a government for eight years where there has been insufficient training with professionals. There are 250 vacant midwives positions, and the government that Hoksrud has supported for eight years has not achieved its own candidate goals to train specialist nurses one of those years. Nor have a sufficient number of LIS1 positions been provided, so that we get more gynecologists into specialization. So here I would encourage the representative to do some self-search.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1380	While the representative of Hoksrud goes to self-examination, I go to the Chair to ask the Minister of Industry the following questions: ‘Construction is Norway’s largest continental industry. The industry is experiencing massive cost increases and loss of order, with a significant risk of increasing unemployment. The Land Association of Construction has asked the Government to cooperate on rapid action to remedy the situation, inter alia by ensuring liquidity in the value chains, assisting in managing escalating cost increases, increasing the commitment to an increment/upgrading of today’s buildingmass by more. Will the government cooperate with the construction industry on such a plan of action, and how quickly can it come into place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1389	Thank you for the question. We are in a difficult time with significant price increases in many markets and industries. The causes are known to be complex. It is about both capacity challenges in global value chains, exceptional conditions in the electricity and energy markets, and not least the terrible war in Ukraine, which has reinforced these challenges. This is demanding for Norwegian business, but it is undoubtedly also a European and global challenge we are now witnessing. The potential overcompensation of business prices must always be based on a broad assessment where there are many reasons to be taken into account. We must constantly assess the boundary between what is the responsibility of businesses and what is the responsibility of the state. Norwegian business is used to managing and adapting to changes in price jumps and inputs, and we need to be careful to take action that shifts responsibility for own account and risk from businesses to taxpayers. It's not an economic system we want. In a situation where we now experience a very high level of activity in the Norwegian economy, where large parts of Norwegian business go very well, there is a real risk of increased interest rates. Therefore, we have to consider very carefully how the government spends the money on behalf of the taxpayers. This is essentially about ensuring the long-term competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises. We follow the Norwegian economy every day. I have weekly meetings with the social partners where this is the topic. We have close contact. We follow the breadth of Norwegian business. We're a lot out there talking to the companies. I have recently met twelve of the NHO's sixteen national associations, including representatives of the construction industry. We have also received a written report from BNL, which I have read with great interest. And I can guarantee that the good dialogue with the NHO continues. Let there be no doubt: the government has previously shown that we are – and we are now – ready to act if the situation in the Norwegian economy so warrants. We will do everything we can to help keep the level of activity in the Norwegian economy up to a high level, and we will also help secure jobs. We are concerned that production is going on and that products are going to enter the market. I think it is important to say – because this is not the first line between the representative and me in terms of support schemes for business – that we should not paint the situation in black either. The concept of crisis, which some people now take in their mouths, I don't think it's cover for. The Norwegian economy is doing well, there is a great shortage of labour in many parts of the country and in many sectors, and there are expectations of higher price growth and higher interest rates. It is therefore necessary that we focus on sound use of government money, which in turn should contribute to the long-term creation of value added and competitiveness of business. If we now get an excessive interest rate, our export companies will be directly affected by a weakening of competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1404	I thank you for the answer, and I agree with the Council of State that the macro-economy is important now. We have to hit the right level of how we stimulate the economy to avoid interest rate increases. It is true that it is not the case that an acute crisis has now arisen in the construction industry, but what I feel is that the construction industry is trying to communicate is that a dialogue must be put in place in a situation that is extremely demanding, to ensure that the parties have close dialogue and can help each other through the demanding situation we are in. For the price increase we look at raw materials and input factors in the construction industry, is enormous and does not draw heights for, among other things. many of the contracts they have entered into with the public. I don't understand that this is a new call for big crisis packages and extra permits and stuff like that, but that there's a desire for a dialogue about, for example, the role that the State can play in risk-loading in a wider situation where commodity prices continue to rise and there will be a growing gap. Risk-absorbing hope I'm a theme the government council will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1411	Now it is a little unclear what the representative thinks, because I understood the representative now that there is no need for crisis response, but the question to me is when the measures come into place – how quickly – with three question marks. Then I assume that the representative believes we have a very bad time to take action, and this government has proved that we can take action. When the Norwegian economy faced a crisis in winter, we received 20 financial measures worth 20 billion in a few weeks' time. kr, which made us get out of this contagion point by 10 pst. of the permits we had in the corresponding previous infection peaks, and with higher employment than before the pandemic. If there's something the Workers' Party can do, it's countercyclical policy, and we're following this from day to day. However, we cannot pursue counter-cyclical policies when there is no basis for pursuing counter-cyclical policies. Now investing billions of dollars in support schemes when things go so well will be irresponsible use of money. That doesn't mean we rule that out. If this situation persists and there is a need for it, this government is absolutely prepared to act. We've shown that before, and maybe we'll show it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1418	How well all the measures in the previous round can be discussed, but we will be able to do so now. I think we're a couple of people who aren't talking about billions of dollars in a new crisis package, but I'm going to give a concrete example of what this is all about. The largest construction company in my constituency, Åsen & Oberelid, has added 200,000, and a large part of the turnover is from public buildings. Now, what they're experiencing is that the three-load prices have increased by 100 pst. in one year, construction and reinforcement steel prices have risen by 50 pst. In a short time, cement prices increase from day to day. Other construction products increase between 50 pst. and 30 pst. A lot of their contracts are tied up in contracts with the public, where no height has been taken for regulation in such an escalating cost increase. Then my question will be: no one asks for billions of packages here and now, but what the industry wants, and I hope the Council can confirm, is now to have a close dialogue. How can we put a tool in place there, for example? can there be some measures to help with liquidity and risk relief if this situation lasts over time, so that we can be in the forefront and avoid bringing crisis packages a few months ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1427	I can guarantee that the government has close and good dialogue with the social partners, including the BNL. I had a meeting with BNL on 24 March. On March 30, I received a letter, along with many colleagues in the government, with concrete input. It says, among other things. that the construction sector is currently experiencing a high level of activity, but that there is also uncertainty and loss of order. The letter also states that the industry is experiencing a shortage of labour. The two things are a signal that things are going well, but I am not saying that this is not challenging. I am not saying that it is easy for companies to handle a large increase in prices and costs. That's why we have to keep track of the Norwegian economy from day to day, and if this is going to be a long-term situation where the order books are not being refilled and we are at risk of any lay-offs and decrease in activity, it is clear that we are ready to act. That's also what BNL is asking us. I can guarantee that we will have good dialogue with both them and others in the future. Then we hope for the best outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1437	‘Changes in the Kindergarten Act on the regulation of private kindergartens have been notified to the Stortinget in April. The Council of State recently told the Federal Government of the Confederation of Trade Unions that she would stop the commercialisation of the kindergarten sector and gain control of the sector out of the boardrooms and into the local government. What will the Council of State do to fulfill the promises of the trade union movement to stop commercialisation and to have democratic sector governance, and does this mean that the government will introduce the local interaction model from the Storberget Committee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1444	A pleasant experience of the déjà vu from earlier today. The government wants government grants and parental payments to go more to the children and not to the benefit of kindergarten owners. We want a regulation that ensures better democratic governance and control of the sector and that stops commercialisation. The government has therefore announced that it is considering promoting several legislative proposals for the Stortinget already this spring. These concern, among other things: establishing requirements for each nursery school to be an independent legal entity, a prohibition on companies operating kindergartens from also carrying on other activities, a ban on borrowing elsewhere than in financial undertakings and the imposition of reporting obligations to the municipality and the Directorate for Education in the event of ownership change and organisational changes in kindergartens. These are legislative changes that are appropriate to ensure good and effective supervision of government grants and parental payments for the purpose and to limit the commercialisation of the sector. All these measures are assessed. It is important for the government to ensure democratic governance and control of the kindergarten sector. In the Hurdal platform, we are clear that we will give municipalities greater opportunities to manage funding and requirements for private kindergartens. Both the Storberget Committee and the Welfare Service Committee consider that there is a need to give municipalities more freedom to manage private kindergartens. The majority of the Storberget Committee has proposed a model that will provide municipalities with stronger tools to manage both the dimensioning and quality of the nursery services. The government will also give small private and ideal kindergartens better framework conditions and give municipalities the opportunity to prioritize these kindergartens. We know that single and ideal kindergartens have a more vulnerable economy than kindergartens in groups. We also know that groups and kindergartens with foreign owners use more of the grants for rent and less of the grants for personnel costs. I want a regulation that stops the development where commercial owners of more and more kindergartens. We aim to return to these issues as part of the forthcoming work on the development of a new regulation for the governance and funding of the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1455	Thanks for the answer. Governments recently promised to control the nursery sector out of the boardrooms and into local government. What I'm asking is whether the Council of State believes this would be possible if it is still possible that the municipalities – as today – cannot distinguish between commercial and ideal, and, secondly, cannot control the kindergarten capacity of the municipalities. If these two things are not changed, could it be that the power lies in the local governments and not in the boards? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1460	In the future, too, it will be the Storting that sets out the framework and rules for the financing of the sector together with some quality and such requirements. But my goal is for municipalities to have more opportunity to manage such an important welfare service in their municipality. There will also be a governor in kindergarten who has something to say about the operation of the nursery, so these things have to work together. Whether we now come up with measures that make the representative 100 pst. Satisfied by the way we move power from government to local government, it's too early for me to shoot. There I think that the representative, along with several others, will be pleased with the changes that will soon be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1465	There would be a clear consistency if there were any, as the Workers' Party and the Centre voted in favour of a proposal for municipalities to have the opportunity and obligation to adapt their nursery facilities locally and to be able to distinguish between ideal and commercial private kindergartens. It is also a very clear recommendation from the Storberget Committee. So if it comes, it'll be a good follow-up of it. We know that the really big profit increases are realized primarily by sales. Last period, the Workers' Party and the Centre voted in favour of the following joint proposals by Red and SV: ‘The Storting asks the Government to impose the obligation to notify and pre-purchase rights on the municipality in case of the sale of kindergartens’. What does the Council of State think about the need for both a reporting obligation and a pre-purchase right for the municipality? The Labour Party voted for it in Stortinget as late as a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1474	I think at least that some form of reporting obligation is a prerequisite for a municipality to have the option to make the decision it is to purchase a private kindergarten that will no longer be operated by those who operate it today. The municipality is informed that a kindergarten intends to shut down, or that the operation stops – and that the municipality can assess whether it is more sensible to buy up the nursery or whether other adjustments are to be made to the nursery facilities. One of the dilemmas that our municipalities still face – especially where there is a large amount of private kindergartens – is that it is very difficult to manage the overall welfare offer simply because the decisions related to it are not taken by the municipality or by the elected people who have the overall understanding of the needs of kindergartens in the future. I would like to add that the proposals that are now to be dealt with in the Storting related to rules for private kindergartens are probably the first of several we will see in the future. I don't think we're done discussing this, although it's going to be pretty quick to come up with new proposals for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1484	‘How does the Council of State view the capacity of the kindergarten sector to meet the needs of kindergartens resulting from the war in Ukraine, and can we offer, in the short and slightly longer term, a safe place in kindergarten to all children who need and deserve it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1489	Thank you very much for a very important question. Let me just start by stressing that the evolution of the situation in Ukraine is uncertain; the number of children coming to Norway is uncertain; of course, it is also uncertain when it may be possible for these children to move back home. All three of these uncertainties make it difficult to give a precise answer to the representative’s questions, but the government’s starting point is in any case that children should be able to live fully and well the time they are in Norway. Kindergarten is one of our best integration arenas and is an important part of the way we settle for refugees in Norway. In the last few weeks, at the request of the State, municipalities have increased their capacity to receive and settle refugees. In mid-March, IMDi sent a request to the municipalities for the settlement of 35,000 refugees in 2022. It's seven times more than the original request for the same year. The municipalities have generally responded positively to the request, and most municipalities now accept the number requested. I feel that there is a great deal of willingness to use available capacity in the kindergarten sector. For example, the Landsförbunde of Private Barnehager has: addressed to the Ministry and expressed the desire of its Member Children's Gardens to help the private sector of the nursery sector to meet the needs of kindergartens in Norway for displaced children from Ukraine. This shows that the willingness to accept refugees in general is high, and that there is satisfactory capacity for kindergartens, as the situation is right now. At the same time, increasing numbers of arrivals and settlements will challenge the municipalities. We cannot imagine that it is a great task to provide available housing, health services and places in kindergarten and school, especially for new settlement municipalities. It is also a challenge to combine rapid housing when we know that extending health, school and kindergarten services and planning for language training and work opportunities takes time. A very large number of displaced persons coming to Norway will require that we make adjustments to the law, and that we dimension many arrangements and services somewhat different from what we saw before the war broke out. This will include, inter alia: the provision of housing, school and nursery services and health and care services. Therefore, this week the government has sent to the consultation proposals for the necessary adaptations to the legislation to allow municipalities to receive many refugees in such a short time and at the same time be able to offer them good offers. Nor will it be possible to participate in the introduction programme and work for the vast majority of parents without a good childcare provision. It will also deprive children of a central arena of integration and social activity. Therefore, the government follows the situation closely and has close contact with the municipalities, in particular with regard to school and kindergarten, where they were signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1516	I thank the Council of State for a good and thorough answer. It's good to hear that we share the idea of the importance of kindergarten and other municipal services, too, of course. But it's also about, as the Council of State says, a good kindergarten is a prerequisite for adult integration and participation in good offers. In this respect, I wonder what the availability of interpretation services and language teaching is, and how to ensure that interpretation services are also available in kindergarten during a flexible introduction period. It's important to create security for the children who come to kindergarten. The adult may need an interpreter to understand, and we depend on providing both adults and children with a transitional period of safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1521	Thanks for the important follow-up questions. Interpretation and translation are going to be improperly one of the major challenges for kindergartens and schools. That is why we are committed to ensuring that those who can contribute to translation and interpretation, including among the adults who come from Ukraine, will be able to work as quickly as possible. One kind of point of light in the whole thing is that a very large proportion of Ukrainian educators are women. We also know that there are women fleeing Ukraine. That's why I have a great hope that we'll be able to find arrangements where educators from Ukraine who come here can benefit from the language they carry, and the experience they have in working with children. That's why some of what we're now considering, how we can make it easier to get all the people who come from Ukraine out of work quickly, but especially educational -- how we can use and make use of them in the work of schools and kindergartens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1526	Thank you for a good answer. With regard to what the government has sent to the hearing, can the Council of State say something about what requirements and expectations we must expect it to have to be relaxed in the coming time, in order to give room to all the children? Can you imagine that it's going to be a shorter or longer period? In addition, I would like to ask whether the government continues to strengthen the community health service in a broad sense, i.e. health centres, psychologists and others that can be available in other arenas than they are in common, including in kindergarten. Health sisters aren't necessarily as much in kindergarten, but now both children and parents have experienced horrible things, and it's important for us that they get help as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1533	The health part of the question seems to me to have to be addressed to the Minister of Health. I dare not go into detail. But I agree that all services that work around our children must be well coordinated and have enough capacity to take care of them. The most important change we have made at the school and kindergarten hearings is the question of how long a municipality will take before you have a so-called full offer in place for a child to start school. Today, the rules are to have an offer in place as soon as possible, no later than one month from arrival in the country, whether by reception or not. What we have sent to the hearing is a question of whether it is not more reasonable to have ‘as fast as possible’ as an important premise, but that a full offer must be fully in place within three months. It's not about the municipalities offering anything from day one, which is always the goal, but we have to assess whether it's right to use forces to sanction a 98 pst. good offer after 2.5 months if there is a very large volume on arrivals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1543	‘The Directorate-General for Education has notified that they are to test out several alternatives to the examination, on grounds relating to the renewal of the profession. This contrasts with the Hurdal platform, where government parties have written: ‘There should be exams and grades in the youth school and further education, while reviewing the need for new forms of assessment in line with new curricula and forms of education.’ Does the State Council consider the examination to be an important assessment form and that independent quality assurance of the characterisation is important?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1550	Yeah, that's what the council says. The exam seems to have come to stay. To test candidates in knowledge, we have at least done since the confirmation was introduced in Norway in 1736. We're not going to give up now. But from jokes to seriousness – I and the government believe the exam is an important part of the assessment system in the training. We're not going to reject either the one or the characters. However, we need to keep up with evaluation schemes that are both in line with the curriculum of the new Knowledge promise 2020 and that are reliable expressions of the students’ actual competences. So it may be that there have been some misunderstandings in the forwarding of this case. I have seen that some media's reproduction of the letter from the Directorate of Education to the Ministry of Knowledge has not been completely correct. The letter sent by the Directorate of Education on 11 March sets out both the reform of the trade union and the reform of completion as a background for the development of the Directorate in this area. The work is not about alternatives to exams, but about alternative designs of exams or final assessments in line with what has previously been submitted to the Stortinget in the context of the wholesale notification of the completion reform. This is a necessary step to ensure that assessment methods are still reliable and fair, and to ensure that the grades provide correct and relevant information on students’ competences when applying for training or work. The work is in the start-up phase, and it will require testing and thorough investigation before any decision on changes may be relevant. Of course, it is very central that such changes are well anchored in the sector, and cooperation and involvement must therefore be an important building block. We need to gather knowledge and make experience, so that we have a solid knowledge base before we will eventually decide on changes. As the representative Vamraak also refers to, the government in his work platform has stated that there should continue to be both exams and grades in training in Norway. But we have to be careful to preserve the assessment methods in school. The examination scheme and examination forms have changed little in recent decades, while the subject of vocational renewal has led to many major changes in the entire curriculum. That said, it is important to bear in mind that the content of the exam and the work on in-flight and position assessment has evolved a lot after the revision of the assessment regulation in 2009 and the subsequent assessment effort that the school and its teachers have been working on. Changes and adjustments are also needed in such an important and solid institution as the college and the school assessment methods. Only such an institution may remain relevant and useful. This is not in contrast to the fact that examinations and grades remain important forms of assessment in school. I have already said that we need to evaluate carefully and from a professional point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1567	I thank the Council of State for fine clarifications of misunderstandings that have been out in the media. I'm glad that the Council of State is busy developing the exam instead of winding it up. Then we have a history from the last few years. The spring of 2020 and the spring of 2021, the exam was canceled because we were in the middle of a pandemic. On 11 February this year, the Council of State announced that this spring’s exam should also be cancelled without exception. The following day, the Prime Minister declared that the pandemic was more or less over, and most of the national measures were removed overnight. The closest thing that is left is to deprive students of the opportunity to take exams. Will the Council of State consider or have the Council of State considered changing the decision announced on 11 February to cancel all examinations?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1580	Let me start by saying that we haven't canceled the exam for this year without exception. All examinations, which are intended to receive a diploma and may be continued in the course of training, shall be conducted. That means that there are a whole series of exams and exams that are being conducted anyway. I would say that it was not an easy decision to cancel the spring exams, but at the same time I would stress that they were not canceled because of the infection situation, but because of the total training situation during the time we have spent in the school year we are in. I am concerned that the school will spend time in the way that the school itself thinks is the best meeting with each student, and that they will spend the longest possible time training towards the summer vacation. We know that exams are important, but also that it takes quite a lot of time and resources in school to organize and carry out. That is why I was busy both in February and today that the school will spend that time well, and that the students will learn as much as possible and be as together as possible the time left of the school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1587	I thank the Council of State for an adequate response to this. I believe that some of the reasons why I canceled the exam this year are that the students have not received sufficient training in relation to what they should have received in a normal year. So an important purpose of the exam is to make sure that the characters given are equivalent across teachers and across schools. The sensors then function as external quality assurance. In addition to the fact that the government now has a job in the directorate to assess the exam, the Council of State last Friday dropped a sample to propose fewer possibilities to compare schools across the external publication of samples. Can the Council of States confirm that she is committed to ensuring that the characteristics used nationally are comparable?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1592	That's the Council of State, and that's what's the reason why this year's exam was canceled. It is not, as the representative claims, that the reason for the cancellation was that the students had not learned enough. The main reason was that because the infection situation has been so different in the country, it was difficult to imagine that one was able to conduct an exam that was equal to everyone, and that it was at the same time perceived as fair. In parts of Norway, there had been red levels and home schooling and home schooling for many weeks during the school year, while in other parts of the country, there has been little of it. That means that an equal exam for everyone would have been unfair, and all of us who are engaged in retaining the exam as the institute should be concerned that the exam has legitimacy. Then we've set up a quality selection to look at how we map and develop the school in the light of the mappings we're doing. That work is going on for a good time to come, and I look forward to discussing with Stortinget in the further way we solve the findings that the sample comes up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1602	‘The State Attorney's Office has established that there have been systematic errors and deficiencies in the police's handling of coercive drug use in minor drug cases. Both the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice and Defence Erik Sandsmark Idsøe and the police have regretted this. The Minister of Justice has so far failed to support the complaint of the Secretary of State or the police. Will the Council of State complain on behalf of the Government of all those who have been subjected to illicit coercive use in these cases, and if not – why?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1609	The errors identified in the Riksadvokat report on police coercive drug use in less serious drug cases are serious. Several have been subject to coercive measures for which there has been insufficient evidence or for which no decision has been taken by the competent authority. Coercive drug use is one of the country’s most incisive measures against individuals, and it is precisely for this reason that errors and discrepancies in this area are so serious. The case-by-case proportionality assessment must follow societal developments. The attention of the prosecution authority on the proportionality assessment of coercive drug use in the less serious drug issues has not been good enough. I am glad that this was caught up in immediately, and I agree with the national lawyer that this must and must be improved. As my predecessor Monica Meland, it expressed when the national lawyer announced the review to which the report relates: ‘There shall be no doubt about police practice in the use of coercive substances in drug matters.’ I will closely follow up the work that my predecessor started last year. I have therefore, after the report was submitted, been concerned with what is needed to prevent continued practice contrary to the legislation. Several measures have already been taken. The further follow-up that must take place in the police and prosecution authorities in the form of a compliance check by the Riksadvokat in the current year is also very important. It has failed both on points for which the Directorate of Police is responsible and on points for which the Advocate General is responsible. The national lawyer has an independent responsibility for the criminal proceedings in each case, including for the professional management of the police and the law enforcement of the police lawyers. The Directorate of Police is responsible for the adequate competence of police officers and prosecutors, for the provision of sufficient resources for criminal proceedings and for the organisation of criminal proceedings so that the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Act can be met. I take this matter very seriously, and I have also assured myself that both the police director and the state attorney do so. The Parliamentary Advocate must, together with the Police Directorate, ensure that practices are brought into line with the legislation. We have to remember that policemen are out doing a job every day, and it has to be clear to them what they should be dealing with. The individual police officer and prosecutor need to know what they have to do with them, so that we can prevent them from going wrong. I'm sure that's the responsibility for both floors. Work started in April 2021 and the two departments cooperate closely on measures to ensure that the guidelines are clear and that they are followed up by both the prosecution and the police. I want to follow up and make sure that the floors also take on and follow up on their responsibilities in the future. What is important now is to prevent this from happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1629	I must say, I am deeply disappointed in the Minister of Justice. It would be easy to conclude that once the state has systematically violated the rights of citizens of the country, it is worth regretting – a complaint that has already been made by State Secretary Erik Sandsmark Idsøe on March 17th, and that the police have also given. Then I have to ask if the Minister of Justice withdraws the regret of his own State Secretary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1634	What is important is that we take action to ensure that this practice does not continue as it has done, that we prevent this from happening again. The police have complained. I think that was quite right. I am pleased that both the police director and the national attorney take this matter very seriously and have taken many steps to prevent the practice from continuing. They have taken measures related to the practice and the building of competences, so as to ensure that we have a high focus on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1639	It seems that the Minister of Justice has not yet understood the extent of an ongoing scandal in her own field, for an office under her responsibility, and it is difficult to believe that the Minister of Justice is actually working to clean up this issue. We know that the Minister of Justice can be effective. She has set heaven and earth in motion to clean up passport queues for the north who will travel to the south, but has hardly lifted a finger for people who have experienced systematically breaking their rights for decades. She has not even followed up a complaint from her own State Secretary. Can the Council of State assure the Government that her department is actually working to settle this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1644	What the representative thinks, I don't get to do that much. The important thing here is to know, and I know that I myself take the matter very seriously. I know the police director does. I know the state attorney does. I have personally assured myself of that. I am also very concerned about following up the work that began during the previous government, when these errors were revealed and a review and action was started to ensure that the practice that has been is not continuing in the same way in the future. I know, I'm sure of that, and I can assure the representative too.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1649	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-06.ana.ud489e1663	There is no Unit. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
