ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e95	The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East-Agder: Abel Cecilie Knibe Kroglund For West Agder: Amalie Gunnufsen For Hordaland: Lise-May Seele and Sigbjørn Framnes For More and Romesdal: Kim Thoresen-Westre The representative of Tobias Drevland Lund has asked for the floor to withdraw a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e126	On behalf of the Bears Moxnes, Seher Aydar and myself, I would like to withdraw the representative proposal 121 S according to Chapter 6, Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure, because this is considered to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e131	The message of the representative, Tobias Drvland Lund, will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. There are no drafts of Document 8 every day. The representative, Sofie Marhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e138	On behalf of Geir Jørgensen and myself, I would like to make proposals to ban energy-intensive extraction of cryptocurrency in Norway and hope that it will go as quickly as my party colleague's proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e143	The representative, Marie Sneve Martinussen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e148	Good morning. It is Friday, so on behalf of the representatives of Sofie Marhaug, Geir Jørgensen, Björnar Moxnes and myself, I would like to propose a proposal for temporary measures against exceptional price increases. I ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e153	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e161	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Heidi Greni. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Greni is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e179	It is now three weeks since Russia invaded Ukraine, and daily we see the truth in the words of Nordahl Grieg: “War is contempt for life.” Many have been killed and wounded. Hospitals, schools and housing blocks have been bombed to ruins, and three million have been driven away in the greatest refugee crisis in Europe since World War II – and the number continues to rise. Most Ukrainians have fled to Poland, but neighbouring countries Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Moldova have also accepted many refugees. During this crisis, I have had close contact with Ukraine's neighbouring countries and other European partners. The Polish Prime Minister has visited Norway, and I warmly thanked him for the way Poland and the Polish people – and the other neighbouring countries – have accepted refugees. It's a huge task, solved in an admirable way. From the beginning of the war, the government has made it clear that Norway will take responsibility and stand up. 2 billion. Dr for humanitarian aid is a significant contribution, and that money is well received. The Minister of Justice and Security actively participates in the EU's work on common solutions to deal with refugees in Europe, and we have made it clear that we will take our share of responsibility with other countries and help Ukraine's neighbouring countries when they ask for help. Therefore, at the request of Moldova, the government has decided to pick up 2 500 refugees from that country. The situation in Moldova is precarious, and the country is on the verge of dealing with refugees. By picking up 2 500 people, Norway is laying at the same level as large countries as Germany and France. As part of the procedures of the EU Solidarity Mechanism, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees will assist in identifying refugees for transfer. It is important that such transfers take place in a controlled and safe way for people in a vulnerable situation. The government has also reported that we can evacuate up to 550 Ukrainians with the need for hospital treatment, along with their relatives. This will be done through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, and initially we will accept 100 patients. With relatives, a total of about 2 750 people could come to Norway in this way. This is a pan-European initiative to relieve health systems in Ukraine and neighbouring countries, and I also include it in a broad European initiative to cooperate on health, with which we have experience from the pandemic, and which is now being expanded. Through our contribution, we continue a long Norwegian – and European – tradition to help the most vulnerable. Let me commend those who work in our health care, the amazing employees at all levels in the hospital who, after a tough roof under the pandemic, once again sign up for service, report capacity, and will contribute. There is solidarity in practice with those who need it the most. We see individuals traveling by bus down to the neighbourhoods to pick up refugees from Ukraine. I understand the commitment and share the will to help a brave people on the run. However, I emphasise that we want the reception of refugees to Norway to take place in order, in close contact with the UN, humanitarian organisations and the authorities of Ukraine's neighbouring country, and in a way that ensures control of who comes to Norway and security for those transported. We do not know how long the war in Ukraine will last, or how many refugees will come to Norway. Nor do we know how long they stay in Norway, and how many want to go back. But what we know is that in any case, this will put us on a historical test. The calculation team of the Foreign Administration estimates that in 2022 there may be 35 000 asylum seekers in Norway, including 30 000 from Ukraine. Usually we live about 5,000 refugees in Norway this year. So now, in March, we can get seven-eight times more refugees in one year. This is just an estimate. The numbers can theoretically be lower, but they can also be higher. I think everyone in this room knows that the Nordics, Norwegian communities, Norwegian neighborhoods and sports teams will stand up for the Ukrainians. But I also want to say today that we are going to be honest: so many refugees in such a short time, that will challenge us. To register so many, to live so many, to integrate so many, to get so many children into school, so many adults into working life – let's be honest: it's going to be demanding. But if that happens, we have to do it. The government is in the process of drawing up plans for what can happen. We are working on measures and adaptations to address the challenges we are already seeing coming, with an estimate of 35,000. We are also working on preparedness measures to deal with an exceptional situation up to 100,000 refugees. It's not likely, but we have to have plans and preparedness because it can happen. Then we'll see accommodation in warehouses, halls, tent camps, ways we don't normally do this, but that will be about being able to secure security in a vulnerable situation, in a way that we'll agree on. It will be perceived as unbridled and dramatic — as we have never experienced before in Norway. Therefore, the government is considering measures to deal with all parts of such a scenario. However, the most likely is not such a large number of arrivals. On arrivals up to 35,000 refugees, our starting point is that we already have good, established arrangements for the reception and settlement of refugees. But we have to make adjustments. It is for arrival, reception and settlement purposes. In the first phase – the arrival phase – it is essential that those who come here register. It is important for the refugee himself, in order to be given an ID number and thus to be able to access public services. It is important that municipalities receive integration grants when the Ukrainians eventually settle, but also for the security of society, so that we get an overview of who is living in the country. We also have to have that in this situation. The government has therefore increased its registration capacity. This gives a better overview of who is in the country, and we assume that there are now many Ukrainians in Norway who are unregistered — who have travelled, live with family, have passports and can stay on the usual basis in Norway. Now it is possible to register in eight of the 12 police districts of the country, not just at the National Arrival Centre in Council. Local registration offers have been established in Agder, South-West, West, More and Romesdal, Trøndelag, Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. Eastern police districts will continue to use the National Arrival Centre in Council. Secondly, we're scaling down the reception capacity. It's the most acute thing to do now. The Foreign Affairs Directorate is continuing to conclude emergency accommodation contracts and is monitoring the market for additional reception points. In this way, we will be able to provide a large number of reception points, quickly and as unbureaucratic as possible. At the same time, it is demanding to plan so much uncertainty around the arrival figures. It is important that the receptions function effectively and that refugees move on quickly so that the receptions do not become a bottleneck. Let's put it in perspective: in 2021, the average waiting time from residence permits to actual residence was 4.2 months. During the 2016 refugee crisis – when 12 000 refugees arrived from reception – it was five months old. The President knows something about what that time means for the most affected. We have to do what we can to reduce the time of reception when we now take into account the potential of 35,000 refugees. The government’s decision to implement temporary collective protection contributes by ensuring significantly faster procedural procedures. The government has decided to extend the alternative reception facility. It ensures that refugees from Ukraine living at home with family members or others in the municipality can continue to live there instead of on reception. I stress that it is important that municipalities follow up the refugees even if they live privately in the reception phase. Regardless of whether refugees live in reception or private homes, it is important to properly monitor the skills and needs of refugees. It shortens the road to the municipality and to the labour market, and it is important for the municipality of residence to adapt the service provision. Therefore, the mapping of the competences of those who come, of what they can and want to contribute, is important. Nevertheless, regular monitoring of so many refugees in such a short time requires many adjustments, and the government is working to speed up and simplify the monitoring process. But here we have to wait that there may also be delays if there are very many in one place. The most important thing for us to succeed is the third step: the settlement in the municipalities. The country around wants municipalities to accept Ukrainian refugees. The messages come in from the north and south, east and west. Municipalities have reported so far that they can initially settle for 22 000. That's a good starting point. There are record numbers of refugees in such a short time, and I want to praise the municipalities for having given such a good answer so quickly. Yesterday we asked the municipalities to prepare to settle 35,000 refugees, including 400 single minors. Municipalities that settle for refugees will receive special grants from the State. The most important thing here is the integration grant. The new integration law of 2021 is more flexible than previous legislation, so that refugees can get faster in work and education. That's good. The introduction programme may last from three months to three years, depending on the need. Those who can get to work quickly – and will – should be able to do so, and we consider changes that make the law even more flexible at this point. Nothing is more important than being able to get into activity quickly. We have to make sure that those who are going to work are not exploited. We will take care of the Norwegian working life model, and we will have close contact with the social partners, centrally and locally, through this crisis. Our starting point is that many of the Ukrainian refugees will soon be able to participate in the world of work and society. If the arrivals get high, we'll all quickly notice it in our lives, we who live in the country. The refugees need housing; they're going to work, start in kindergarten, go to school, play football. Ukrainians with different levels of language skills become our workmates, neighbors, classmates, the ones we trade at the store, the ones we are in the transport. There will be new classmates who don't know Norwegian, who need new friends, who have fled their homes – perhaps without a father, who remained. Providing adequate kindergartens and school places will be a challenge. The municipalities will not initially have enough interpreters and language teachers when so many Ukrainians arrive. The health system and the elderly will be burdened. But we're going to do everything we can, as a society and as an individual, to set up for those who are coming. Many in Norway have already started. Teachers use class hours to talk about Ukraine and their homeland to those who have fled. Universities and colleges, like Oslo here in Oslo, have turned around and are engaged in Ukrainian language training and strengthening interpreting services. Children sell lots to income for Ukraine, there are collection actions and support concerts. And sport and play are a universal language that all children speak fluently, and an amazing integration arena. Last week Vålerenga invited the football Ukrainian refugees to practice, and wished them welcome into their football family. So yes, it's going to be demanding. But we're a small country with a big heart, and we're going to show it now. So I'll go over to another theme that we have to take seriously in this situation. Also in areas other than migration, the Russian invasion of Ukraine requires immediate action in Norway. The government today announces that it will ask the Storting for an extraordinary grant of 3.5 billion. kr to strengthen defence and civil protection in the current year. These are necessary measures because we are facing a more unpredictable and aggressive Russian regime – our neighbouring country. Russia uses extensive military power against civil and civil infrastructure. The regime shows few signs of diplomatic follow-up. President Putin is using threatening rhetoric towards NATO and Western countries, also towards his own inhabitants who are not following his lead, and he has raised the preparedness of his nuclear forces. It contributes to more uncertainty in an already tense situation. We also have a Russian regime that will weaken more and more the longer the war goes on. Russia suffers major military losses and may become more unpredictable and unstable. The economy is in a free fall as a result of sanctions, and in the short term this may increase the willingness to take risks. This has consequences for both Norwegian and allied security. Several allies, especially in Eastern Europe, fear that the conflict may spread to them. This is a concern which is understandable and which we take seriously. At the same time, there is now nothing to suggest that Russia wants to involve NATO in this conflict. Russia has already suffered great losses and bound up large parts of its military forces in Ukraine. However, Russia’s risk of using non-military instruments, below the threshold of armed military conflict, is high – also against Norway. In particular, we must expect digital attacks and intelligence and influence activities. We've been talking about this for years, this has been announced in open briefings by the intelligence services. Now we have to take it seriously. Russia has its nuclear submarines on the Kola Peninsula, near the Norwegian border. In an acute situation that we are in now, Russia feels the need to protect these forces. That's an approach we're familiar with and have seen on previous occasions of increased voltage. Norway can read the picture in the north – we have a long experience with that. This is not directed directly at Norway, but it increases the tension in our neighbourhoods, where our NATO allies expect us to follow closely. Norway is the eyes and ears of NATO in the north. That means that we will, must and should be able to follow the Russian activity even more closely. Our starting point for that is good. We know the northern regions and have a lot of experience in operations near Russia in the north. The extraordinary appropriations we are now asking for for the defence have, among other things: The aim is to strengthen our presence in the northern regions. We're going to sail more with all the marine ships, and we're going to strengthen our ability to monitor and understand the situation in the north. We also need to strengthen the police's ability to detect and counteract the intelligence threat, especially in the northern parts of our country. The Russian invasion of Ukraine also underlines the importance of NATO membership for Norwegian security. This week we have had ongoing contact with our NATO allies and NATO institutions. On Thursday, NATO meets at the summit to discuss the war and the alliance's response. The government proposes increased appropriations to receive allied forces and allied reinforcement in Norway — an important part of the Norwegian defence concept. We also expect increased demands and expectations to put relevant capacities at the disposal of the alliance. Norway shall continue to be a credible ally that contributes substantially to the collective defence of the alliance and to the security of our allies. This will be done by taking greater responsibility for security in Norway and in Norwegian neighbourhoods, which is the most important thing, but we also need to strengthen international efforts in NATO's forces in Eastern Europe and in NATO's response forces in general. NATO is a defence alliance. NATO is not threatening anyone. We're adding up to increased activity in the Maritime Defense, Army and Homeland Protection. In addition, we shall increase the preparedness and stamina of the Defence for the purchase of materials, ammunition and spare parts. That's absolutely necessary. We will also strengthen defence cooperation with our Nordic neighbours Sweden and Finland in meeting the common challenges we are now facing in the north. This cooperation has developed positively in the last 15 years. Now we want to strengthen it further. From migration and defence, I move on to my third point: we also want to strengthen our civil protection and social security. We will propose to the Stortinget an additional allocation of 500 million. NOK 2022. In particular, we must assume that the number of digital attacks against both public and private actors could increase in the future. We therefore strengthen our ability to prevent, avert and manage digital attacks. The ability to detect and manage adverse events both in municipalities and in the private sector needs to be improved. Here again, all the responsibilities, from your own PC at your own work desk to your company’s emergency procedures – and as we also have experience in this house, the attacks on the public sector can come in many different ways. So the competence needs to improve, and we'll come back to Stortinget with a message about digital security in the course of 2022. Fortunately, the fire in a Ukrainian nuclear power plant following a Russian attack two weeks ago did not lead to the release of radioactive material. No elevated radiation levels have been recorded in the area after the fire, or in other areas of nuclear power stations in Ukraine, but warfare near nuclear power stations increases the risk of accidents and accidents. If a radioactive substance release occurs in Ukraine, the consequences for Norway will be limited, due to the distance between countries. But we have good nuclear preparedness and good plans for something to happen. The Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety is continuously monitoring the situation. They have access to real-time measuring stations from Ukraine to follow developments. The incident shows that it is necessary to be able to alert the entire population rapidly in an exceptional situation. We have therefore allocated funds to the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, which looks at a solution for effective mobile alerting to all the people. The war in Ukraine will have lasting consequences for the security policy situation on our continent. We need to draw conclusions from that in a number of ways. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through redisposals, has temporarily strengthened the staffing of several Norwegian foreign stations east of Europe. In the long term, there will also be a need for a strengthened Norwegian diplomatic presence in central European capitals. We've had good decades behind us. Central Norwegian security and foreign policy interests, and our own neighbourhood, have been little challenged. It's now changed. We will carry out a review of the foreign service to equip ourselves diplomatically in the meeting with a new era in Europe. Penalties are most effective when many countries introduce the same measures. It gives them legitimacy, strengthens their impact and underpins international society's cohesion. We have consistently endorsed our decisions to support the sanctions adopted by the EU. It is a natural choice to be with European and Nordic countries that are also part of the EEA Agreement. The sanctions to be addressed by the Council of States today are the most comprehensive measures ever taken on European soil. At the same time, the government makes its own assessments of possible adaptations to Norwegian conditions – that is our responsibility. European airspace is restricted for Russian aircraft. It also applies to Norwegian airspace. On Svalbard there is a significant Russian settlement and business. We have therefore enabled helicopter flights in connection with the mining activity of Trust Arktikugol. The EU has not imposed sanctions prohibiting Russian ships' calls to ports, but is considering this on an ongoing basis. Our cooperation with the Russian authorities is at a minimum, but cooperation on search and rescue, as well as on fisheries management in the north, exists. We have to include this in the assessments we make on port access penalties. Following the attack on Ukraine, the media channels Russia Today and Sputnik have been used by the Putin regime to spread propaganda about the war. The EU Sanctions Package contains a decision to block Russia Today and Sputnik from transmitting via TV and the Internet in the EU Member States. The government believes that there should be very good reasons to restrict freedom of expression. Such information should be met as far as possible with source criticism, not censorship. A blockage can also in the next round be exploited by the Putin regime and others to legitimize their censorship towards the media from the other side. We therefore make thorough own assessments of the dilemmas in this case, before we conclude. The implementation of sanctions in Norway will have limited impact on the Norwegian economy. Our trade with Russia is small. However, in eastern Finland, a significant proportion of business is dependent on trade with Russian counterparts. The Government will therefore propose to extend loan arrangements and allocate 50 million. Distributed through the county council, and we want to establish a system of support for the companies that are now severely affected by Russia's warfare and the sanctions. The government will return to other issues related to the impact of the Ukraine crisis on the Norwegian economy in the context of the revised national budget. In conclusion, the Storting has a long tradition of bringing together important, long-term choices in defence and security policy, and I understand the Stortinget so that a broad majority sees the need to strengthen defence and our relationship with NATO and to increase our resilience to digital attacks. I also feel that there is strong support in this room to stand up for Ukraine and Ukrainian refugees. Those who come from war and fear of a divided country will come to a country where we who have political responsibility stand together to welcome them. The same applies to the decision to join the EU's sanctions against Russia – I feel that there is broad support for it in the Storting – and it is a great strength for our country that we stand together in times of crisis. The government therefore attaches great importance to keeping the Storting well informed and involved. We want to help find solutions that have a broad majority behind them in this room. Then, at the beginning of April, the government will promote an additional proposition in line with the proposals contained in this statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e319	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the presentation. The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a comment round, limited to an intervention of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e326	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a very good and thorough presentation. Russia's brutal attack on Ukraine is a serious violation of international law. We strongly condemn the attacks on civil and civil infrastructure. The war has great consequences – above all, the enormous destruction and human suffering of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people are now being subjected to. But the war will also have major consequences for Norway and for the rest of Europe. We are facing the greatest refugee crisis in Europe since World War II. The efforts of Ukraine’s neighbouring countries have a strong impression, but also show how demanding the situation is. Norway will take our share of pan-European solutions, and the government will now pick up 2,500 people from Moldova – one of Europe’s poorest countries, with a very high influx of refugees. That's good. In addition, a group of patients and their families are in a medical evacuation. The municipalities are now rapidly turning around and are ready to contribute to an exceptional situation. Capacity to settle 22,000 refugees has been reported in a short time. It's a good start, but we have to anticipate that there will be problems finding enough places, and that the need will therefore be much bigger. We're going to prepare to accept Ukrainian refugees, and that will require a long-term effort. Being well prepared also means being honest about the challenges it will bring. Local communities throughout the country will now be tested. In several places, our welfare services are already under heavy pressure after two years of pandemic. Norway is ready to provide the refugees who come here, a safe place to live, ensure that the path to work is as short as possible, and that the introduction programme is flexible and adapted to the individual. We're going to do what we can to give people a meaningful life and contribute to the Norwegian society. Around the country, individuals, businesses and non-governmental organisations are already giving refugees a warm welcome. There are considerable resources and opportunities in the interaction between public and voluntary organisations if we are able to mobilise and coordinate this in a good way. Now we're going to set up and do what is required of us, while at the same time ensuring that the strong community we have is rusted up for the problems. The Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee was this week travelling in Sweden and Finland. Both countries have already worked closely with NATO, and it has been interesting to follow the debate on alliance membership that is now taking place in two of our nearest neighbouring countries. But no matter what Sweden and Finland fall on, Russia’s invasion has strengthened both Nordic and transatlantic cohesion. Because although Russia does not pose a concrete military threat to Norway today, the war in Ukraine has significant consequences for our security. Then we have just heard that the government will come with ad hoc support to strengthen defence and civil protection in the current year. It will mean increased maritime activity and understanding of the situation in the north, increased level of activity in the army and home security, improved capacity to receive allied forces, and enhanced ability to handle digital attacks. All of this is important for us to be able to take good care of Norwegian interests in a very uncertain time. Wide agreement on Norwegian security policy and Norway's foreign policy line is a strength for our country. Now we have a refugee situation that will challenge us. Good cooperation at Stortinget is therefore more important than for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e353	Let me start by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. It is good that the Stortinget will be updated in such a changing and tragic situation that we stand up to. Putin's brutal and groundless assault on Ukraine is both illegal and shameful. The heroic resistance we now see from the Ukrainian defence makes Putin increasingly target his arms against the civilian population and civil infrastructure. It is not surprising when we see how Putin has progressed elsewhere, but it is equally cowardly and completely reckless, and it must be condemned most strongly. It also changes a lot in the safety policy situation for Norway. I am pleased that the government now announces increased appropriations for the Defence. A clear increase has full support from the Right. That is right and necessary in the worsening security policy situation we are in, and we are following our allies and our partners in their priorities. It is important to ensure the financing of actions to improve operational capability in the short term: exercises, training and the reception of allies. Prioritisation is important and follows the signals that have also been given to the Right about a desire for growth in the future. At the same time, there must be a long-term strengthening beyond the long-term plan, for the security policy situation is dramatically worse. Here I agree that we need to take time to get good military professional advice from the Defense and our closest research communities before we make major changes, but we need to have it with us. It is also important to strengthen the response to hybrid threats and cyberattacks, and it is positive that initiatives are also taken on the civil side. It is important to remember that our total preparedness is also about the civil sector being able to defend itself against cyberattacks. It will also affect our ability to defend. Right-wing calls for enhanced humanitarian support in Ukraine during the weeks prior to the invasion, for the main challenges are taking place in and around Ukraine. We think it's good that it's set 2 billion. available, but assistance must be effective. Therefore, we believe that Norway was among the countries in Europe that responded to Ukraine’s request for help at the latest. Ukraine and the whole of Europe are now in a very serious situation and it is necessary to ensure that the decision-making processes of the government are in place. We assume that it'll come in order soon. Having discussions in the public domain based on the lack of good decision-making by the government works in agreement. We have called for an overall plan for a proper and well-organized reception of refugees coming to our country. We are better prepared to accept large refugee flows now, but there is still a need to think about what collective temporary residence means. Even if there are a lot of people coming, we have to make sure that we can do it. Therefore, it is important that we also ensure that the municipalities are able to do so. And I want to communicate to the government that we hear a disturbance in Norwegian municipalities now about what kind of demands are now to be made for the settlement. It will be expressed in how many people dare to say yes to settle. Therefore, it is important to have clear and clear messages from the government. Now there are three million people who have already left Ukraine. It is high time and important that preparations start in all the parts of society that need to be set up if the highest estimates are to be taken. I very much agree with the priority that the government has done to pick up from Moldova. It is the most vulnerable state we have in Europe, and we know a lot about vulnerable states being able to succumb to refugee crises. There we look at the neighboring country of Syria. It is now important that for those who come, we start a fast track into work, education and schooling. The integration plan we have created is based on people staying in Norway. In principle, the prerequisite for collective protection is to return home. It is good that we now join the EU's sanctions against Russia and Belarus. It has our full support. But the lesson from the process is that this has taken a long time. It has created legal problems for business. We should learn from that, and we should be able to do it faster in the future. The situation we're facing now requires that we stand together, that we do our best, and that we mobilise the best resources. I can guarantee the government that we're going to contribute to both good perceptions, good ideas and our experience of dealing with crises of this kind and with the support of a government that's going to need support, because this is going to be demanding in our society as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e378	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. There is a long tradition, as the Prime Minister says, in Norwegian policy to unite on important choices in security policy, in humanitarian matters, and also in the reception of refugees in a difficult situation. The presentation builds up under this long-term tradition. Russia is waging a brutal war, which is hitting Ukraine hard. The lack of respect for the international law of war is serious and has major consequences for the civilian population in Ukraine. Now that many Ukrainians are on the run, and neighbouring countries have already accepted a large number of people, the Centre Party is pleased that Norway made 2 billion early. Dr at the disposal of humanitarian work, and that we are also actively involved in European work to distribute refugees. It is good that we will pick up refugees at the request of Moldova, while we will pick up people who need hospital treatment. In the weeks and months to come, many refugees will come to Norway and other countries in Europe. At the same time, it is necessary to underline the uncertainty, as does the Prime Minister. We don't know how long the war will last, we don't know how many refugees will come, we don't know how long they will stay in Norway, and we don't know how many people will want to go back. It is estimated that there will be 35 000 asylum seekers in Norway this year. It will be demanding, but I am sure that Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian communities are going to set up. I am also confident that the government will assess various so-called scenarios for far more refugees than 35 000. In meeting the Ukrainian refugees, Norway has decided to provide collective protection. This means that Ukrainians on the run can get help faster. We in the Center Party are concerned that those who come to us have to get to the house quickly, and they also have to get into business quickly. We need to ensure effective monitoring of education and professional background in order to try to integrate as quickly as possible, and we need to be flexible whether the refugees are living in private homes or they are in reception. They must be able to choose a shorter or longer introduction programme according to their needs. For the Central Party, the opening-up of NATO membership is fundamental. At the same time, a greater commitment to Norwegian defence is absolutely necessary. So we're very happy that the government is now planning 3.5 billion. kr to strengthen defence and civil protection in 2022. Our defence capabilities need to be strengthened by concrete measures that can be implemented quickly. Increased presence in the north, better opportunity for allied reception and increased bet on army, home security and total preparedness are key points that are absolutely necessary for the rapid arrival of the bet. Later this spring, there will be a separate matter for Stortinget with an update of the long-term defence plan. It's also important and necessary in the situation we're in. What is now happening on the European continent will have implications for security policy and for the defence debate in very many countries. For this reason, the work of the Workers' Party-Center Party administration through the Defence Commission and the Total Emergency Commission will also be incredibly important. It will form a central basis for further work on the next long-term plan. We are going to have to merge both short-term and long-term measures to strengthen Norwegian defence capabilities and create security for the Norwegian population through a better overall preparedness. Russia's actions have implications for the bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia. In cooperation with the EU and our allies, Norway participates in the strongest sanctions against the Russian authorities that have ever been in force, and we contribute military and humanitarian support to Ukraine. The sanctions we are now part of are absolutely necessary, and it is important that Norway participates in them. At the same time, the Centre Party considers it important that Norway make its own assessments, which are adaptations to Norwegian conditions. I'm glad the Prime Minister was in on it, because it's a difficult dilemma that has to be settled all the time. It's our relationship with Svalbard, it's our relationship with fishing management and search and rescue in the Barents Sea, and it's also about whether that's right, for example. blocking Russian media channels. I agree with the Prime Minister that the restriction of freedom of expression is serious, and that disinformation should be met as far as possible with source criticism, not censorship. Therefore, I am pleased that he so clearly signals that one has a thorough review of these important and difficult dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e403	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. The last few weeks have fully shown which regime, which is our neighbor, we're dealing with: a dangerous, totalitarian regime. It is quite impressive to see the will of the Ukrainians to defend their country, their democracy and their freedom. I believe we must acknowledge in this room that we have been naive after the fall of the wall, and that we have not seen the dangers that have come our way, early enough. That's why I'm glad the government is now signaling that you want to give more money to the Defense, that this is a start, and that we're going to have to rust up more in the time to come. The need for air protection is precarious, and I believe that the war that is now taking place in Ukraine has shown that. We need more staff, we need more equipment, and I think everyone now understands that there are many countries that are going to want to get hold of this. In other words, we must start planning what we are to order and have the necessary decisions taken in Stortinget. Therefore, I hope the government will come back with an adjusted long-term defence plan as soon as possible, so that we can make the necessary decisions to build up the defense as soon as possible. There was one theme the Prime Minister wasn't interested in, but which I think it's necessary to talk about, and that's food security. We know that parts of the world depend entirely on the grain production that Ukraine and Russia produce. Russia has already said that they are stopping exports. What production is left in Ukraine is impossible to say. We know that the Middle East, Egypt, a country with over 100 million inhabitants, Yemen, Jordan, Lebanon, Sudan and many other countries are totally dependent on food supplies to avoid a famine. I'm worried that we in Norway now don't do what we can to produce enough here. I know that in the big context it will be small, but it will be an important signal. The farmers report back that the signals that have come so far are not clear enough. Many people are struggling to pay their bills. They get extra costs all the way. Fertiliser prices have increased even more. One should have been clear from the government on what framework conditions farmers get this year, so that more people take the chance to produce food grain. What is the consequence of a food crisis is a large flow of migration from the south. Then I think everyone will see that Europe has a big problem if we both have a large flow of refugees from Ukraine and a great wave from the south. It's not going to go well. The Progress Party supports the acceptance of refugees. We also believe it is right that we help those in need of health care, but then we also expect the government to use private capacity if necessary to ensure that the queues in Norway do not increase and that patients who are already here and need help are affected. It has to be controlled, otherwise people get worried. That is why it is also important to have ID checks on the border, as we see the Swedes have now done. It's good to see that people are engaged and want to help, but we need to have control of who comes to Norway. Finally, it is good that the government will come back with help to the companies that have direct trade with Russia, especially East Finland. But there are also a number of other companies in this country that are now struggling very hard, for example. with electricity prices that have been cloud-high over time. Now the fuel prices come to the top of it. Many businesses are now afraid of bankruptcy. When the government says that we have to be careful not to do anything with the level of charges for these goods because we have low unemployment, I think I would say that it will not be long if this price level continues. I was in the West yesterday, and there the companies are afraid that when the first piece falls, the first ones start going bankrupt, it's going to kick their ass, and we're going to face major challenges. In addition, of course, there are ordinary people who are being skinned and who now experience a severe reduction in their private economy. Then it's up to the state to set up – at least when we see what extraordinary income the state receives. I am disappointed that the government is not responding to today, because I know there are a lot of companies out there that are now sitting waiting for what you intend to do to remedy the situation even for ordinary businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e426	First, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good account in the middle of this serious matter. What we see now is a further brutalization of the war, with ever more attacks on civilian targets and a desperate situation in Mariupol and other major cities. We see that Putin's message becomes, as in this speech we have seen this week, more desperate and more hateful, and the regime's goal seems to be to put Ukraine in ruins and make Russia a prison. What we're seeing is simply a war that's about building empire, and for every day Ukraine opposes and endures, they make it harder for Putin to change Europe and the world in that direction. Therefore, Norwegian solidarity with Ukraine is so important. I want to commend the government for both showing such a clear will and now also taking initiatives in accepting refugees. We strongly support the air bridge that is now being created from Moldova. SV is also positive to enter into other distribution mechanisms. The assumption is, of course, that the countries with the highest burden now want it, but Norway has to be ready for it. I also want to encourage the government to see if Norway can take a special responsibility for a particularly vulnerable group of refugees. There are a large number of children now on the move internally in Ukraine, children living daily in child protection institutions, boarding schools, the type of institutions that are largely left to themselves in this chaos. We want a Norwegian initiative – in cooperation with Ukrainian authorities, UNICEF and UNHCR – to reach these children and help them. It's a concrete call for the government. It's also like 40 pst. of those who have now come to Norway as refugees are children. Then it is essential that we quickly set up a separate plan to meet them. It's about health monitoring, it's about child-care competence in reception, it's about capacity in schools and kindergartens. Another part of our solidarity effort is to provide emergency assistance and assistance to the extent needed, and more to Ukraine. At the same time, we also need to be prepared for the great ring-effects of the war, not least in terms of the potential for both food shortages and higher food prices in very vulnerable parts of the world, such as the Middle East and North Africa. We also have to prepare for that. Therefore, SV is critical to that freeze in payments to, among others. United Nations organisations that the government has now implemented, and we want to ask for it to be taken up again, because we now need to prepare the UN organisations for greater efforts, not less effort, and we also need to be prepared to increase our own assistance to other areas. Another important part of our solidarity effort is to contribute to the effectiveness of the sanctions against the Russian elite. In this situation, it may be about intensifying Norwegian work on tax havens. It may also be something very specific that I would like to encourage the Prime Minister to look at, and that is to change the rules for the new ownership register, so that the threshold for what is registered there is lower. At the same time, we should work for an international ownership register. Why? Well, because we have to identify the assets of the oligarchs and make it easier to find them if the sanctions are going to be effective. There is one concrete thing we can do in Norway now; make it easier to find the assets of the oligarchs in our country. SV supports a commitment to the Defence not only in this situation. The priorities suggested by the Prime Minister today are also in line with the priorities we have had for a longer time for a stronger national defence: more sailing, monitoring in the north, clearly showing and managing our sovereignty in our neighbourhoods, greater commitment to personnel and equipment. Of course, we have to see the arrangement when the government comes up with the proposition, but it sounds reasonable, and SV supports the thinking behind it. Then I would also encourage the government to look at infrastructure investments in the context of the East-Finland and South-Varanger communities support package, because it can act as a local counter-cyclical policy and ensure that businesses and people are kept at work. SV is ready to negotiate with government parties quickly. I notice that the proposition does not come until early April, but will encourage us to move forward as quickly as possible in order to get as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e449	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good presentation. Red will again condemn the fiercest attack by Russia on Ukraine against international law. The Putin regime refers to the invasion as a special military operation with what they call peacekeeping forces, but no one must be fooled by such propaganda. It's a war of international aggression that no rhetoric can smooth out. We must call the war by its real name. War has no respect for life no matter how small and fragile they are. We saw that especially with the cruel pictures of the attack on children's hospitals and pregnant women. The Putin regime has full responsibility for the bombs that are now hitting both civilians and soldiers who defend their country. No vestiges can expound unwarranted wars of aggression and the enormous human suffering that war continues to bring. Therefore, Red wants Putin to be held accountable. We need more than ever a consistent defense of a rule-driven world order, which is especially in the interest of smaller states, and a consistent resistance to international law-enforcement war. Therefore, it has been proposed that Norway ratify the additions of the Roma Statutes, which give the International Criminal Court jurisdiction to investigate but also to judge leaders of international law-enforcement wars, and that such a provision be incorporated into Norwegian criminal law. If adopted, Norway may contribute to an international judicial process in order simply to condemn Putin for the war of aggression, and Norway may issue an international arrest warrant against Putin personally or jointly with other States. Red will have the most effective and powerful sanctions and measures that affect Putin and the oligarchs around him, where it scurries, namely in their private wealth. It also includes Norwegian measures. One of the things Red suggested early, was to throw Russian oligarchs out of Norwegian pedestal. Now the Red Government is asking that the public ownership register be improved and the financial supervisory authorities be strengthened so that we strengthen the fight against money laundering, corruption and hidden ownership. We must do that if the pursuit of the money positions of Russian oligarchs in Norway is to be easier. In addition, the warnings from the PST on strategic Russian procurement in Norway need to be taken seriously. Now we stand together in solidarity with the Ukrainians. They need more emergency aid, money and medical equipment. Now millions flee from merciless Russian attacks that hit more people every day that goes. Red was quickly out proposing to give Ukrainians collective protection by model for the way we helped Bosnian refugees during the Balkan War, and we are pleased that it is now happening that way. This is the war of the Putin regime. Usual Russians are not our enemies. All over Russia, people are protesting the war at great personal risk. The rhetoric towards this opposition is tightened for each day by Putin himself. Thousands are arrested, and the Russian peace movement, which is shoulder to shoulder with its Ukrainian sisters and brothers against the war, also deserves our support. It is the Russian people who can ultimately overthrow the authoritarian Putin regime. Our goal is to stop the Russian aggression, save human lives and prevent the spread of the war and Europe and Norway becoming a battlefield in a major war between nuclear powers. We need to strengthen the peace movement here at home. We need to strengthen international law, and we need to ensure that those in power who launch international attacks are held accountable. It is absolutely essential to strengthen our national defence. We must return and modernise the invasion defence, which was put down for warfare in other parts of the world. Finally, the will to fight that the Ukrainians are now showing should inspire us. We must promise ourselves, and we must promise the Ukrainian population, that no matter what happens in the battlefields in the next few days and weeks, no matter how long Russia continues to bomb, we must never surrender until Putin is forced to retreat, until Ukraine has regained its independence, and before Europe has regained peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e466	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for coming to explain the government's policy on a serious day like this. On behalf of the Left, I would like to stress how important it is that the Grand Duchy and the Government jointly secure the support they deserve and need from Ukraine. I want the Prime Minister to know that he has full and unreserved support for everything he can do to help support the Ukrainians in their struggle for freedom, both humanitarian support, military support and support for the EU's sanctions. However, we also believe that there is not necessarily a contradiction between adhering to EU sanctions and at the same time assessing its own actions. We also support the strengthening of defence and civil protection. Putin's war threatens the security of Europe as a whole, including ours. What really is a man who deliberately attacks a theater, where about 1,000 people – women, children and men – are hiding from bombing over Mariupol? What do you call a man who deliberately bombs women in the birthplaces? What do you call a man who attacks innocent people who are in line to receive their brotherhood, or journalists who report from this cruel war? Such a man can only be described as a murderer and a war criminal. Those are serious words, but if we don't, in the name of honesty, can describe these acts as just that, the truth loses its meaning. Words must still have their meaning, and a war crime is a war crime, even when the war criminal is in control of the world's greatest nuclear arsenal. The Ukrainians are now fighting for their own freedom, their own sovereignty and their right to rule over their own future. However, as others have said here, this is not just the war of the Ukrainians, and it is not just Ukraine. This is a war against freedom, against community and against cooperation. It is a war for autocracy and against democracy. Putin's goal is not East Ukraine, Kiev or Lviv. Putin's attack is an attack on freedom, and it's an attack on our freedom too. Nevertheless, the Ukrainians are now fighting this war on behalf of the whole free world. That's why they deserve our full support. Here in Norway, we may feel that we have taken a major step in delivering weapons at all – for the first time since 1959 – to a country that is at war. It was a big step for Norway. But, with respect to reporting: it's just a footnote in history, compared to the stories of all the heroic Ukrainians who are now defending and dying for their cities, and who become victims of Putin's cowardly assault war. We do not just want to delay the defeat of the Ukrainians. We want the Ukrainians to win, and to win, they need weapons, and they need them now. It is today, at this moment, that the Battle of Kiev, the Battle of Kharkiv and the Battle of Odessa stand. From the Prime Minister's statement, I lacked clear commitments that Norway will continue to support Ukraine with weapons as well. When the President of the United States can openly present what new weapons the Americans can send to Ukraine, we believe that we can do the same. The Ukrainians need more weapons now, and let us give them what they need to defend their own and Europe's freedom. Norway is now ready to accept thousands of Ukrainians. Local communities all over the country are doing what they can to welcome those who are coming. That's our job. We're going to give them a safe harbour in a stormy sea so they can prepare for the future. I appreciate that the Prime Minister was clear that it will be demanding – there is no doubt about it – and it is primarily the municipalities and civil society that together must do the demanding job, everything from housing to providing health care, but also giving people in crisis as good a daily life as possible. Our goal must be that Putin won't win. This cannot be the starting point for Putin's attempt to recreate the old tsar kingdom or the old empire. This must be the final line for Putin's long-standing efforts to weaken the conditions of freedom in Ukraine, in Europe and in the world. One thing is sparkly in this situation is that the free world is united as never before in its condemnation of this man. Let's not give up one inch for this war criminal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e484	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a statement on a humanitarian crisis and a geopolitical situation that has already changed Europe and that will now shape our society in Norway more and more. It is urgent to help the refugees from Ukraine and relieve the neighbouring areas. We must avoid a situation in which Eastern Europe is suffering an excessive burden and we have a reinforced division between East and West in Europe. Norway is among the world’s best-performing countries through the pandemic in the last few years. We are doing well in the Norwegian economy, and we even need more labour. In recent years we have also received a few of the world's 82 million refugees, and we have had few asylum arrivals. We therefore have a lot of capacity in Norwegian municipalities, and there is a lot of heart space. That means that we have the opportunity to put up a heavy situation in this crisis, both economically, practically and with protection for them in flight, and then we should do it. That's not the same thing as saying it's going to be easy. It will require broad cooperation, and it will require dedication, but it is still correct. I see today a Prime Minister who agrees with this. Thank you for that. The Green Party fully supports the Prime Minister when he reports that Norway is now picking up more than 5,000 refugees to Norway, including some who need hospital treatment, even though our health services have been under pressure for a long time. I also ask the government to pay extra attention to that. The Green Party supports the decision to take over 35,000 Ukrainian refugees together, and we in Norway can also give priority to additional vulnerable groups and vulnerable groups. Receiving refugees is also about getting the municipalities ready. It's about monitoring, yes, but I've worked a lot with receiving refugees at asylum receptions in the past, and it's also very much about cooperation between public authorities, between public authorities in the municipality and local businesses, and not least with volunteering. There are many volunteers around the municipalities that do an incredibly important job of integrating individuals into their community. The footage we've got from our elected representatives is that the government hasn't been clear enough that all the expenses in the municipalities will be covered. There have been some reinforced signals today, but here it is important that the government listens carefully to the needs of the municipalities in the days to come, so that they can prepare themselves as best they can. I want to say that when the Prime Minister makes it clear that high arrivals of refugees can put our society to the test, the Greens are at least prepared to do ours in the municipalities where we are. The Prime Minister also pointed out that more asylum seekers could come in addition to the refugees that Norway directly picks up, and I am pleased that the government is clear that the human right to seek asylum is also established in times of crisis. I assume that it applies equally to all asylum seekers, wherever they come from, and no matter how they have traveled here. Europe must now mobilise strongly for Ukraine, but it was a refugee crisis in the world even before the invasion, and we must not forget Norway's responsibility to contribute to internally displaced persons and refugees in other countries, such as Yemen, Afghanistan and Syria. I fear that Western countries will now begin to withdraw from contributions in other refugee areas. Norway must not be such a country. It will send a signal that some refugees are more important than others, and it will in practice mean that we make some people's rights more important than others' rights. We don't have to do that. The number of quota refugees must be maintained. The Greens have made it clear that we believe Norway must make a strong contribution to humanitarian aid. We are a rich country in a world with several crises at the same time, and as an oil exporter, we now have increased revenues from oil and gas. This means that someone pays more for the oil and gas than they did before, and many of the consumers are in Europe and elsewhere in poor countries in the world. We have therefore called on the government to set aside the additional oil revenues we now received suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of the war, for emergency aid and reconstruction in Ukraine and around Ukraine, and for food security in the world and for energy security – two crises that are now, of course, reinforced by the invasion of Ukraine. We believe that this is a humanitarian responsibility, but also a security policy. Finally, although the Green Party is a party with the origins of the peace movement in Germany, we support the increase in the defence budget and are pleased here with the close cooperation with NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e505	Russia started and waged a pointless and brutal war against Ukraine. The suffering is unimaginable, and the civilian deaths are rising. This past week we have also seen the theater in Mariupol that was bombed. Civils were killed. Convoys with civilians trying to escape are being protected, and more people are being killed. Where Russian forces do not have the power to occupy cities, they go over to the sheer destruction of the cities. Amnesty International reports of Russian forces violating international law and committing war crimes through targeted attacks on civilians. President Putin is a war criminal. Putin has cast aside all respect for his own neighbouring country at all levels, violated international agreements, ignored international legal order. Raw use of power has been and is Putin's recipe. There is no reason to believe that indulgence on the part of the West will soften Putin. This war will affect Russia's reputation for a long time and will change Europe. Just as the fall of the Berlin Wall did, 24 February 2022 will stand as a crossroads in history. We have gone into a more uncertain time where Norway must also strengthen the capacity and stamina of the defence. It supports the Christian People's Party. Cohesion and cooperation in the NATO alliance are only becoming more important and important for Norway in the future. After 21 days of war, after 3 million people fled Ukraine, after 3,000 kids went across the border every hour these days, the government announced yesterday that it will pick up refugees. That's good, and it was high time. At the same time, it can only be a beginning. Volunteers have been doing a great job for a long time, and they deserve praise and not punishment. It is precisely civil society that is the key to our success of reception and integration and not least of giving them a warm and warm welcome. The state must ensure good coordination and coordination with voluntary activities and with the public authorities. The war is having ring-effects all over the world. The poor countries of the world already have a solid task of building up after the pandemic. Then came the war in Ukraine, which is exacerbating both the economic crisis, the inequality crisis and the energy crisis. Not least, it will drive new millions of people into acute hunger. The world food programme reports a sharp increase in the price of food and fertilizers, which in turn makes it more expensive and difficult to provide help. In addition, countries are beginning to withdraw and cut aid. We cannot cut the humanitarian crisis, and let the world's poorest pay to help Ukraine. It is estimated that Norway earns five–six times more on high oil prices than we expected to earn. Then we can't sit still and think that we leave the world's poor people to take the bill for helping vulnerable groups in Ukraine. It's unfair, and it's simply unworthy. The Ukrainian president spoke for Congress in the United States. He said seven words – he thanked for all the contributions, and then he summed up in seven words: I called on you to do more. I hope that we in this room and the Prime Minister and the government have come to know that this is what they are asking for. They're asking for more help, that we go a little further, both locally, regionally and nationally, because this is about individuals. It is about peace and security, but it is also about the world's poorest people not taking the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e520	Thanks for the good feedback, also on the main lines of the statement, for which I feel that there is broad support in the hall. Humanitarian aid is important. Norway was out with a I think that was the earliest of all. I saw that France was now out and announced that they contributed 100 million. euro. It's about half. What we stressed when we went on our humanitarian offer was to learn from what we see in other crises, that in the start-up phase of an unbridled crisis, it is essential to play on those actors who can get emergency help into a crisis area. From my time in Red Cross, I remember that one of the biggest problems in such situations was that you get bottleneck problems by getting a lot of unsorted equipment into very limited arrival capacity. That is why we have been concerned that actors such as UN agencies, the Red Cross movement and the Refugee Aid, which have these channels, are given the opportunity to work. There is no delay in this; it is done in a good way. The representative Listhaug was in the field of food, and it's very important. I think the crisis that is under way in relation to the world's food situation is very serious. The wheat price has doubled since January and is now much higher than the price of wheat in Norway. The government has proposed that we stimulate the production of more food grain in Norway through subsidies and guarantee schemes for the farmer, who will make choices about how to wound. What's particularly serious is when 30 pst. of the resources, maize and wheat, come from Russia and Ukraine. It is particularly crucial for North Africa, the Middle East and other parts of Africa – a crisis is actually being seen in the process of sailing. Not only is it produced less, but the Ukrainian farmer does not have access to fertilizer. That means the crops can get 40-50 pst. lower capacity. To get the goods out, it happens by sea, and the seaway is blocked. The Black Sea and its surrounding areas are blocked. It's very serious. It means that established food sources are gone. And then you go to other food sources, and then the prices go up. It's a contagion effect. I think it's right that the world has to prepare itself a little in the long term here that we have a very serious food crisis in the run-up. It was important that the representative, Mr Listhaug, pointed out, and I fully agree with that. With regard to the municipalities and the refugee situation, we have ongoing contact with them. Contact is ongoing and daily, and it is now organised by the Minister of Inclusion as weekly and regular meetings. I understand that both people and municipalities want more predictability. We're trying to give it to them, but we're giving it in a range of 30,000-35,000 and with a possible scenario of 100,000. Then we're going to contribute – through UDI, IMDI, our competent municipal minister and our network of municipalities – to making sense of what it means, what it means for a small municipality, while the big cities are going to be in a very special situation. We have to follow them up especially when they're going to think about what that voltage means. Of course, we are concerned that the municipalities will have their expenses covered. They are covered by special grants. The most important thing is the integration grant, which will cover additional housing and integration costs, but we are aware that we need to look at any other arrangements given this particular situation. Here I think there are services that the Ukrainian refugee population will not need, as others have needed, and there are services that this population may need, which we do not have now. Therefore, flexibility and good dialogue, with which we have good experience, with the municipalities, through the municipalities' organisations, through the state administrators, are an important track to follow. Finally, I would like to make a comment to the party Red, which says that it is now important that we stand together in solidarity. I fully agree with that, and many of the points that were raised by the representative, I agree. But the bill does not go up politically if Norway is going out of NATO. If it's the policy to take care of Norway's interests in a normal time and it's still the policy when we're in a crisis, I just want to say that it's deeply irresponsible. For cohesion and solidarity in a war and crisis situation that we are currently facing, will be directly in conflict if Norway should raise its hand and say that we are going out of the alliance, which is not an offensive alliance, but is a security alliance, which is a solidarity alliance. That's a position I mean the time is now in to reconsider for those who have the opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e543	The comment round has thus ended. The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on the war in Ukraine be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e561	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e570	The aim of the regional reform was to make the counties more relevant. It was to get the voters more involved in what was happening in the county. The left wants municipalities to become bigger and better at coordinating more tasks, to take on more State jobs and not least to provide a basis for wider trade unions. The current government was not tempted enough by it, and rather than building up a reform that, of course, is in many ways at the start, they decided to do it all over again. At one point it seems that the government with the Center Party in the head wants absolutely all the solutions to be welcomed. Fortunately, the majority in India put an end to that disintegration. I ask myself where the way goes. What are the government's dreams for the states of Norway? Should they, with more and less counties, make them more relevant, better able to undertake more tasks and more exciting to establish more professional environments? I wonder. The municipal minister has announced that the government will return to its plan for tasks and the role the county municipality will play in the future. There have not been so many signals to track for the moment. Reversing regional reform becomes a more complicated exercise than the central party and the government has imagined. Much indicates that the expectation was that Troms and Finnmark would be dissolved, likewise the Viking, and then it would fall back to its old self. As happy as the Central Party is in the County Municipality, no one makes me believe that they would deliberately want to throw the county council into the uncertainty that is now unfolding – uncertainty about how the municipalities of the seventh and last allow themselves to reverse to old units, and uncertainty about the power relationship between small and large counties. In the wake of the weakening of the county councils, I have a certain understanding that the Progress Party is promoting the proposal they are making today. I understand that because it is the primary policy of the Progress Party, but the Left will not support the proposal. In the left we still believe that the county municipalities can become something more than what is left after the reversal wave that has overshadowed the country. The Hagen committee stressed that the eleven new states were able to take on tasks that could not be assigned to the counties in the past. Several were simply too small to accept significant tasks. Today, the Center Party is hiding behind the argument that these states mentioned never came. The left hand side saw to it that more tasks were moved, but the centre side could think more. When we still want three levels in Norway, I think we best ensure that decisions are taken as closely as possible to those decisions. A two-tier model, where some tasks would automatically go back to the state, would have weakened local self-government. Now, however, we are left with some large and able states to undertake new tasks, other than the neighbouring states. This will in future ask some questions about the generalist principle in general. The generalist principle can stand in the way of new structures, and it is therefore important that the debate also comes to the fore.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e587	Unlike the previous government, this government wants to strengthen the county community as a social developer. Lowering the regionally elected level is a bad idea. The county is responsible for many important services for people and communities, such as: secondary education, highways, culture, public transport, dental health, school pillows and transport of disabled persons. In addition, the county has responsibility for the development of the region, through inter alia: overall planning, industrial development and environmental tasks. A well-functioning government at regional level is important, and the role of social development is exercised in good partnership with the help of good instruments and tools. We will review and strengthen the instrument and the role of the county council in regional and regional policy. The county also has a role in asserting the interests of its region with regard to national projects, establishment, positions, etc. This is only a elected body that can do so on behalf of the inhabitants of a region towards national authorities. A government administrator or other government body cannot play such a strategic role. Nor will we have anyone who can legitimately take responsibility for and initiative to promote the overall development of the region. The region will somehow disappear as a community of interests, and the county will only become a formal administrative framework for a number of state-owned bureaucrats. Most municipalities are too small to play such a role, even if they should join together in a regional cooperation body. Without operational resources and capacity at regional level, they will hardly achieve the desired development in a number of areas. The government will use the whole country. It should be possible to live a good life wherever you live. We will provide good services close to people, more jobs and good infrastructure throughout the country. We will develop regional growth agreements between the state, municipalities and counties, which will ensure development and growth across the country and long-term business, transport, housing, education and well-being. When the structure of the regional breakdown with new county boundaries is clear, the focus must be on filling the regionally elected level with tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e604	The right considers that society’s resources need to be prioritised for the most important tasks. Norway must continue to convert through a green shift, ensure that more people complete the school, build infrastructure, create more jobs and include more. The most important thing for citizens is the content and quality of services. But the government has now started expensive and years-long projects to create more counties, which will mean many lost years for the inhabitants. We believe that this error-priority will result in impaired services and debilitated professional environments and put important developments on hold. These reforms, which the government has launched, have further updated the debate on state structure. In addition, there are several municipalities that are now considering becoming part of a different state than the state of which they were previously part. I guess it's not to exaggerate that the government itself has started a real chaos out in County and Municipality-Norway. Right-wing support for this proposal and will vote for the proposal on a principle basis, because we believe it holds with two levels of government in Norway: state and municipality. At the same time, I would like to point out that an important factor in the allocation of tasks between the State and the municipality, and therefore the municipalities, is to continue working with larger and more robust municipalities with access to good professional skills. The Government of Solberg carried out an important municipal reform, which Right considers should continue. In order for citizens throughout the country to have access to good services, municipalities must be able to provide these services. I refer to the letter from the Gram Government Council of 8 February this year to the Presidentship of the Stortinge, which announces the time of the presentation of a proposal on the sharing of county municipalities. It would be natural to go more thoroughly into all aspects of administration levels, state structure, the whole case complex, in that treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e619	For many, many years, the county municipalities have stood as a stronghold against centralisation. That's why the Center Party will take care of them. I hear that the representative of Skkelstad is still defending regional reform. That's special to listen to. It meant that county boundaries that have passed over hundreds of years were removed with a pen stroke, and that a few people in an office in Oslo removed county boundaries that have helped to maintain communities throughout our country. What the representative himself described as a democratic reform was a purely coercive reform. It created a number of problems and solved very few. Today we are discussing whether to take care of the county municipalities or not. It's worth considering how radical this proposal to wind up the county municipality really is. There are very few — if any — countries in Europe with the size of Norway that do not have a regional level. Last autumn, a comprehensive OECD report went through country by country, and perhaps — perhaps — Bulgaria does not have a regional level. But I want to challenge the Right Party and the Advance Party, who want to wind up our regional level: what is their model for that? Does one have a concrete example of how this has worked? I want to hear that. The winding-up of county councils will result in a massive merger of municipalities. That's the only way to move decisions closer to people. But it will lead to massive centralization, which will lead to the closure of kindergartens, schools and hospitals in many communities across our country, and not least will such a massive community merger lead to a weakening of people's influence over their community. And then the question is, what will the cost of this be? I want to challenge both the Right Party and the Advance Party, especially the Right Party, which ruled the Ministry of Local Affairs for eight years. Have you sat down and figured this out? Do you have any estimate on that? It cost 3.2 billion. kr only with the completely unnecessary folding of the county. If one is to facilitate such a large community merger as the closure of the county municipalities will be, what will the costs be? I would like to hear the representative from the Right tell us a little more about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e632	It's a little special to take such a debate right after the Prime Minister's announcement of the situation in Ukraine. Then the press desk and the hall were full. Now we're talking about having three or two levels of management in Norway, and interest from the press, the hall and the outside world is not entirely at the level of interest in other things. It might tell us a little bit about the status of Norwegian county municipalities in the population. We have a lot of experience with the status of the county. Nittedal tried with his own municipal election day some years ago. Then they had the county election on their own. The conclusion of the district election in Akershus only in the municipality of Nittedal tells what people most think about the county municipality. An orc almost doesn't go and vote. In Finland, where a recent decision was to be made whether to apply for a split-up, half chose a specific question where they could sit home and vote in a referendum, not to vote. It might tell us that the county council and county building are not the most important thing in people's lives. The services are important, continuing school, dentistry and transportation are important, but exactly what happens at the county council, and what happens at the county hall, doesn't really occupy people. The Progress Party proposal is that the Services should be removed, and the Services should be provided by the Builders. They're going to get close to people. We think we can give them even closer to people by adding them to municipalities. It's not like the Center Party says that the municipalities will have to grow larger. If they want to get bigger, we obviously think it's good, but smaller municipalities can, for example. the purchase of services from larger municipalities, so there is no problem that more services can be added to the municipality level. Some services may be added to the State, such as: large road, which was moved from state to county. It was an error to do it. It is better to let the major roads go to the state, which has bigger economic muscles to do with the county road network, which is a major problem. Transport, e.g. is something the government itself does not really trust the state politicians. In the Hurdal platform, they say something about ferry prices, which is a municipal responsibility. Only there is proof that even the government party and government do not have full confidence in state politicians, one is forced to override, for example. holiday prices, as the county cannot determine it itself according to the government's views. There's a lot of examples that we can do very well without the filling, so we're proposing to wind it up. We are pleased that we get support from the Right – the last time we stood alone, now we have one more party, and the Left shows that they understand that we suggest it. That means things are moving. Perhaps the Progress Party will soon have multiples for the proposal I am happy to take up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e649	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e654	We live in a long-term country with different challenges and resources, and it depends on geography and demography. This week we've been in the committee on a trip to Northernland. There we have seen an abundance of local and regional promoters who are proud of their part of the country and who are proud of their country. We have experienced enthusiasm and creativity, optimism and pride over our own country, about our own projects and resources developed locally, but also regionally, and were focused on just the levels of administration and interaction and opportunities in that interaction with each other. We have been through a regional reform. I guess we can say that it's been a project with varying degrees of luck. Forced states have cost the community dearly, and it will cost us even more to dissolve them again. It is now necessary to focus on achieving predictability at all levels, as far as possible in a resolution process. We need to stabilize the county level, and we need to give the employees jobs to work with the important tasks they have. We need to work on the further development of good school services across the country, and then in close cooperation with the industry we see in the region. We have many unsolved tasks in the collective sector, lags in the maintenance of county roads, and this must be given priority. In addition, the county has a responsibility for cultural development. It must also be seen at a regional and overall level, and it is best solved at the lowest level. Finally, with an increased timeliness in these days, we can mention the tasks of the county council in coordinating integration work and also seeing it in a regional perspective. Large variations in the country require wide variations in solutions, but it also requires an overall look. There is a need to see associated municipalities in the same region in a context and through it also strengthen a regional level. It is also important to see which state tasks can be more decentralised. The major challenge of regional reform, in addition to the coercive aspect, is that new tasks have not been sufficiently outsourced to the county. Government tasks can be successfully solved regionally, including with a different state structure. Decisions taken near people are better anchored, better adapted to the conditions you experience, and overall it also provides better solutions. SV believes that the discussion on the existence of the county municipality should not be a consequence of a failed regional reform, but an opportunity to look at the content and how each county wants to design its operations and regional development. Regional economic development, green conversion, rural policy throughout the country and a strong public sector provide the basis for a good life throughout the country. We therefore do not support the proposal to wind up the county council, but we want to strengthen and further develop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e667	Redly, we believe that the current three-level management model needs to be further developed, and that this is an important part of Norwegian democracy. The ongoing collapse of regional reform also shows that the population has a high proportion of its population. Red thinks that our welfare services must be managed as closely as possible to the people, and that through a third of the administration the population is given the greatest opportunity to influence the services that are central to their everyday lives, whether it is a bus or a dental care. Regional reform was not only a forced reform but also a centralisation reform. The centralisation of democratic power is in practice excluding people from influence over their own lives and communities. The proposal under consideration today requires further centralisation of power, even if the Progress Party is trying to present it as if it were something else. The generalist municipality principle, i.e. that all municipalities should be able to provide the same services to their inhabitants, is important to ensure good welfare throughout the country. If, with the liquidation of the county municipality, the tasks of the county municipality are to be transferred to the municipalities today, I fear that this will lead to larger municipalities and more centralisation – and let me say that it has not been very popular in recent years. We believe that in Red is the wrong medicine, all the time when local and regional reform has created as much unrest as it has done. In the comments on this case, the Progress Party writes that we need a ‘more efficient use of taxpayers’ money’. But we don't get any math on how much it costs to put down the county council and transfer all the tasks to the municipality, and again start a big structural debate. The regional reform has shown us how much money can go away to unnecessary and coercive public sector restructuring, and the job of cleaning up will take several years. It is time to leave municipalities and counties alone to do their work. In the future, rather, we need to strengthen the state level by looking at how we can give the counties relevant tasks and not least strengthen the economy to give them the opportunity to offer good services to their citizens – rather than to allow them to be the subject of even more debates on borders, on eligibility for existence and on whether they have any value at all. Red will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e682	Norway is a large country with geographical variations and differences in social and business life. We have a well-developed national, regional and local government, and a society with high trust and relatively small differences. The local government, both in municipalities and county municipalities, gives its citizens great influence on the development of their communities and their future. The proposers believe that the best solution for our country is to have two levels of government – state and municipality. We're fundamentally in disagreement here. The county councils are currently responsible for several major tasks, such as: public transport, highways and secondary education. These are tasks that require units of a certain size to ensure a good resolution. The consequence of switching to only two levels of government in Norway is likely to be that extensive municipal mergers need to be carried out, while at the same time the State will have to take over several tasks that are currently being undertaken by the regionally elected level. State take-over of the problem will weaken the ability of people to influence their own community. Extensive community consolidation will strengthen centralisation and also weaken local government and the influence of its citizens on the development of its community. Such reorganisation of Norway could also be very costly. I am pleased that the proposers provide me with an opportunity to speak positively about the county municipality. Unlike the Advance Party and the Right, this government wants to bet on the counties. The government wants there to be three elected levels in Norway. A well-functioning government at both local and regional level is important, and the government therefore wants to strengthen the county as a service provider and community developer. The government will look at ways of strengthening county responsibilities and tasks, including: by improving the county economy, establishing regional growth agreements and assessing the transfer of several tasks of state administrators and other interventions contributing in the same direction. This is something the government will come back to. The solution to many of the challenges facing our society is no longer centralization. Rather, the solutions are to strengthen local and regional elected units by demonstrating their trust, making resources available and helping local knowledge, proximity and commitment to development in different parts of the country. I believe that the county councils represent an important part of the Norwegian People's Government, and that the county council's service and development role should be strengthened in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e702	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e707	There is no doubt that the debate on county structures has been further updated through the reversalive that the Central Party has around the country. We now see that a resolution of the Week will cost the taxpayers and the community up to half a billion dollars – while at the same time it will go beyond development, while at the same time it will go beyond the service offer. Employees also say that they must now take time to reverse and liquidate rather than work on development. It is a hindrance for which this government must take responsibility, and then it is quite natural that these debates come up. However, I would like to ask the Council of State Grams, as there is a larger case notified not so long: what will be investigated in addition to just dealing with the application for such a case to the Grand Government for the dissolution of the counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e716	First of all, the basis for the question, that the debate has been updated due to the policy of reversal: no, the debate has arisen because of the use of coercion against county municipalities. Forced aggregation is the basis for us to have this debate. That's what we're cleaning up now, and then we've given the coercive municipalities – that is, the county democracy – an opportunity to apply for dissolution if they want to. Three of the four coercive states have so decided. It's taking the local People's Government seriously. So we're about to file a case on this for Stortinget. We will review the applications in line with the provisions of the law on division and submit a well-founded case to the Stortinget based on the applications that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e723	It's almost become a separate sport for the Center Party to rewrite history. We know they're very happy to talk about history, but just the one they've written themselves, it seems like. One thing the Senterpartiet happily forgets is that their own former municipal minister and their own former party leaders thought it was necessary to reform the region, that it was important to get fewer counties. Then the Centerpartie has turned around in that case, probably also because you did not succeed in getting a pass in the government you put in before. But now leave it. I want to take up another thing that takes a lot of people out in the states right now, and that's the whole situation of settling refugees, taking care of integration and making sure that it's a good process. What does the Council of State really mean about the future use of the resources of the employees when they have to take the time to wind up the counties and create new state organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e730	When it comes to writing history, I'm afraid it's the representative Kapur who presents stories about the Center Party and the county councils in a wrong way. What happened during the Stoltenberg II government was that the Stortinget was presented with a big message presenting three different models for organising the regional level. In the winter of 2007, the county councils were given the responsibility to add to processes that ensured a good anchoring of all relevant actors, municipalities, neighbouring counties, regional central government, business and voluntary sector, specifying that any merger should be based on voluntary activity. That was what Åslaug Haga and the Stoltenberg II government presented to the Stortinget – a completely different policy from that of the Solberg government when it came to state autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e737	Yesterday I was standing on the pulpit in the county of Westland discussing the county structure. I belita me - I can explain it later, if no one knows what that means. In that county, there was also a clear expectation from a whole body that a new task would be desired, and it was the party of the minister who was the leader in that debate. Will the Minister meet the expectations of new tasks from own parties in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e744	I understand that the county of Westland has expectations of new tasks. I think most county councils do. It was actually also a premise when Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland decided to merge, namely expectations of new tasks. The problem was that very little came from the government that started that process. We have, on the part of the government, said that we want to strengthen the county authorities' responsibilities and duties, and have also mentioned several examples of what we think about it. An important basis in itself is to strengthen the economy of county councils, such as: will provide opportunities to strengthen the provision of services and to fulfil the role of regional development operator. We have done so significantly in the current year's budget. Then we have referred to the work on regional growth agreements, the work of assessing task relocation from the State administrator and other tasks to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e751	No matter what the story is that we're there today, at least we're in a situation where we have a lot of county employees who are tired. They've been through merging processes, with or without coercion. Some think it was a good idea, others don't. Now it has to be solved in many places, and employees also find it a good idea to varying degrees. That's why I want to ask the Council of State: Would you like to focus more on and also give good support to the employees and not least to the employee organisations, so that employees are now guaranteed predictability and good working conditions? Many are also afraid of their jobs and perhaps also afraid of relocalization.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e758	I share the assessments and concerns on that issue. There is no doubt that these conversion processes are unfortunate for the employees. There may be some good results from conversion processes, but it's clear that it's first going through a comprehensive merger round and then having a division process, struggling on people. We must have great respect for that. It's basically very unfortunate that we've come into this situation, through coercion. We have said that we should provide the county municipalities financially, so that the costs of this should be borne by the state, so that it does not go beyond the service provision. It also includes, specifically, good local processes, involvement of employees, support for trustees, which will have an additional role in these processes, etc. So it's an important part of the perspective that the county councils are now themselves concerned with, and that the government is going to give them support.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e765	I would like to thank the Council of State for being so clear on such an important issue. My question was really going to go into this with what the government's plan is to give more tasks to the county council, but I'd rather narrow it down a little bit to ask the state council whether he thinks it's natural that, in any reversal of the merger of county councils, it is suggested that the state council also follow them at any time the new county boundaries, which will come into force after splitting up the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e770	A few years ago, changes were made to the government administration structure, and today there is a large coincidence between the division of state administrators and county councils. There's one exception to that, and that's Oslo and Viken. We have announced that we will now review the breakdown of the governance structure and make an evaluation of what happened some years ago, and the developments up until today. That's where we'll look at more relationships. The zoning will, of course, be a very important premise for the division of central government offices, but there are also some other issues that should be considered in that context, so I want to get back to that question after a more detailed process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e776	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e783	In my time as rapporteur, we worked hard all day, for the benefit of the citizens and the development of the municipality, with good services and more jobs. I always slept well as rapporteur, regardless of whether I lost a case or got a pass on a case. What could take away from me at night, however, was when the county council began to interfere in the development of the municipalities. They got involved in our work. They even dared to raise objections to the municipal development plans, because the county council had different opinions. How dare they? I always thought. Together with the municipality's administration and political colleagues, we were able to develop good plans for the development of the municipality. Nevertheless, the county council could come and interfere and strike some municipal level in the table, which limited the development we agreed on. As the President can hear, this post is almost personal, but it is more on behalf of a nearly cross-political selection of local democracies. Unfortunately, not all politicians who agree with the Progress Party dare to stand up. They'd rather go to the back room and kick a little in the wall, in fear of compromise with their own party's national policies. The Progress Party wants to take the local democracy back in its entirety. Today, the county council acts as a clumsy hand that undermines local democracy – yes, even local bureaucracy. In order to have a good diversity in local democracy, we need many and motivated candidates to list local elections. More and more parties struggle to make proper lists in many municipalities. Many people just don't bother for as long as the feeling of being undermined and overwhelmed by, among other things. the county level lowers the local motivation to engage. The Progress Party believes it is now high time for a reform that is in the best interests of the citizens of the whole country. Strengthening the municipalities where the municipality assumes most of the tasks of the county gives citizens greater influence and proximity to important areas. Governance is becoming more effective. We also want to save money. It will strengthen the local economy, and we'll get rid of an administrative link. Now we're managing ourselves to the full. Norway is a small country with five million people. It's less than half of a European city. Why do we need a third management step in addition to the municipality and state? A local government gives peoples and communities freedom and the ability to govern their own lives. State detail management and bureaucracy must be cut. Power and authority must be given to those elected who are closest to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e802	As an alternate, I have not coordinated myself with others in the group. We're probably talking about the same things, they're the same things that concern us. I want to take a practical approach. I'm a local politician at Stord, and I'm a state politician. At both of these levels of administration, we work with extensive planning. In addition, when a person has to take care of government plans and frameworks, it is a challenge for ordinary people. It turns out that bureaucracy at all levels of government is eager when it comes to plans, it is a large and comprehensive document. So when a regular resident wants to build a garage or a nest, it's a huge challenge. It is clear that it would have made it easier if one set with a large bank account, because then one could have got help and rented skills. As a politician, I'm busy simplifying. I'm busy getting everyone the same possibilities to realize their building dreams – if you could call it that. Practically, it actually makes sense to build the nude nearer than 100 meters from the sea. I come from an island, and to me, it's completely open, but for those who make rules, it's clearly not. I'm sure with two levels, you would have simplified and made it possible for ordinary people to build where they want to build, and to build – whether it's a fist or a garage – as they think it's practical. As a local politician, it would have been fun sometimes to help own people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e811	Our way of organizing the government of the country and the local government is part of Norway's success story. Difor is the proposal to wind up the county council is particularly bad. Success history is that one over a hundred years has had a short way between people and those who rule, a fine-masked municipal structure – which was mandated by the 1837 Presidency Act – and the state, which is even older. My own state, Telemark, is from 1662, first under the name Bratsberg County, and from 1919 Telemark. A short distance between people and those who rule creates trust. Long distances create indifference. The whole central word is trust. In a society of high trust, values are created; they are effective, and it has great self-esteem that people trust the authorities. The alternative we know is from too many countries. The proposal will give the opposite result, i.e. much larger municipalities and longer distances. In addition, these tasks will need to be centralised with the State. The county is not a waste of money, it is a level of government that performs important tasks within, among other things. further education, culture and dental care. In addition, the county must be in the driving seat as a regional motor, and all of which are known to be an important part of the rule of peoples and democracy. A living government is completely under-communicated in the public debate, which is only about large units and the production of services. When faced with a large system, human beings become small. That's the way one goes if we're not on duty every single day. For the centre part, this is in the spinal cord. It's a central part of our view of value, and I'm especially happy to belong to a government that is so clearly ringing the county council and three levels of government. Then it is that the county can take on more tasks, including: Tasks of the Heads of State or Government. Getting more tasks isn't on the county council, it's on the will of this hall, that's the will of Storting to move tasks from state to state.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e822	I was in the debate when the coercion of county councils was adopted here, and I said it was the strangest debate I had ever had. There is clearly something that characterizes all the debates about the county council, because here there were four parties that celebrated that they were given a majority for a decision they themselves said no one was satisfied with. It has really been found in retrospect that Geir Sigbjørn Tskedal's words were right, because no one is satisfied. Employees are not satisfied, state politicians are not satisfied, and the inhabitants of the counties are absolutely not satisfied. As I said at the time, it is natural to adopt a dysfunctional structure when the majority of those who make the decision aim to shut down. And they said clearly in the hall: now we're halfway to the goal of getting rid of the county municipality. I have to say that it is especially when the Right Representative calls the reversal a waste and at the same time does not see that it was a very unfortunate order when the Right decided to put down the county council and first spent billions on a huge structural change with a huge transformation for both employees and everyone else – and when you saw the next round, the county council shut down. It must have been more socio-economic and in all other areas more profitable to go down first. I have never heard of a business owner who has invested 10 million. kr before he decided to cancel the day after. It's really a crazy waste. And then to the proposal: the progress party doesn't say anything in the setting about who is going to take over these problems. There are three short sentences, which might suggest a little bit of a thoughtful suggestion. But then we hear in the debate today that it is the municipalities that are going to take over those tasks. Then there must be a large-scale coercion – no then, we can have more intercommunal cooperation If I don't remember very well, the main argument of the Progress Party on the municipal reform was that we had to coerce municipalities, because we had too much intercommunal cooperation. I'm starting to fall off a little – to say it like that – because if we're going to be able to strengthen the county council, and that's what the Hurdal platform says we're going to do, we have to make sure that it's local knowledge. There is no local knowledge among those who will rule from Hemsedal to Halden. We need to take care of new tasks, both from the state administrator, perhaps also from the municipality and not least from the state. We need to strengthen the role of county councils as regional development actors, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e831	It was mentioned by the representative Framnes that he was from an island, and I can say that I am too, but earlier this week the municipal committee visited another island, in the Northland, namely Andyya. What was the rapporteur who could tell us? Well, that was how important cooperation with the county is when it comes to transportation, when it comes to high school and its development, and also when it comes to business development. The county has a role in Norwegian policy, and we need to strengthen it rather than put it down. Some of the tasks that society solves are best solved by having regional glasses on, whether it is building a road, installing fast boat networks or ferry routes, or dimensionaling higher education according to the needs of both society, business and student demand. I really think Council Gram describes the proposal of the Progress Party quite well in his reply to the committee: it is a radical proposal, it will lead to more centralisation and more community mergers – which I will dare say have not been very popular. Extensive municipal mergers will bring a new round of unrest out there, and I also fear that it will be very expensive. The costs we don't know about, it's not well enough figured out, but I think it's going to be a lot. I have to point out to the irony that the same politicians who have been against dividing counties because it's expensive, at the same time, will lower a whole regional level of government, which I think will cost the shirt. I was unable to humiliate myself; I also have a list of countries in Europe that have only two administrative levels. There we find countries like Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco, San Marino and Slovenia. The largest country in this country is Slovenia, which has two million inhabitants, but Norway has both twice as many inhabitants and a lot more land. It may show that it is an idea to have a regional level of government that is governed politically, that can look at issues and policies with regional glasses, because I would like to say that there is quite a difference between Monaco, Liechtenstein and Andorra and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e842	Now I want to share my favorite formulation on the government platform – the formulation I think is the very best – and if more representatives in the hall want to come and share their favourite formulations on the government platform, regardless of the party, they are welcome to do so. My favorite formulation is already on the first page: it says that the government is to ‘move power to ordinary people in all areas of society’. To give the states that want to recover, the opportunity to regain their independence, we are in the process. Troms and Finnmark will again be counties, as well as Buskerud, Akershus, Østfold, Vestfold and Telemark. In Hedmark and Uppland, a majority wanted to get the states back. 145 978 people voted during the referendum. It would be even more if not many were practically prevented from participating in the digital vote. A majority asked to get back Hedmark and Uppland, but unfortunately it was not heard in the county. We are discussing today the proposal of the Progress Party to remove the county municipality. It is interesting that if you apply on the website of the Progress Party, you will see that a representative – the representative is actually in the municipal committee – says that the Progress Party wants more referendums, that referendums should be used, and that referendums should be listened to. At the same time, through the coercive reforms, both in the coercion of counties and of municipalities, the Progress Party has opted for a strong overrun of people. But we see people rise up against this. A short time ago, there was also a referendum in Haram. That's 70 pst. by those who voted, to get back their municipality. We have to take this with us. Let us hope that we will never again have such coercive reforms as the regional reform and the municipal reform have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e855	It's been a great debate to listen to. You talk about local democracy, people are allowed to decide, etc., and you have to move tasks closer to people. The centre party is talking about local democracy, but what is local democracy with a regional level? Well, there are objections, objections, objections and troubles for the municipalities and local democracy – those that are close to where people live. It is local democracy and the debate that is now taking place here. It may be that the reason why the Center Party is very concerned with maintaining the county council is that they have a lot of local politicians who need a salary. That's probably why it's okay to maintain this level, which drives and creates trouble for the municipalities around. When I hear about how great, beautiful and nice the county municipality is, it's okay to ask people. The County of Westfold and Telemark would not ask the people in a referendum, but a survey was made. Then actually said 55 pst. that they were to be allowed to have a referendum and show what they thought about the county council, and 36 pst. was against it. So it was a large majority who wanted a referendum. The funny thing is that when the same survey also asked people what they wanted with the county council, they actually said 40 pst. that they wanted to put down the county council, 34 pst. They said they didn't know what they were going to vote, while only 27 pst. said no to shut down the county. If half of the 34 pst. Which does not know what they intend to do, would have been allowed to answer what they want, had we put down the county council, just as the Progress Party wants. That's what the people want, because the people don't see the need for the county council. I've been in the county for 12 years. Every time there have been discussions about tasks and everything possible. I hear the Central Party talk about doing tasks, etc. There was almost no task done at the last time the red-green ones were put. I don't think there's going to be a lot of problems now either. The problem is that you don't really want to have this level, but it's probably fun for some state politicians who can live fat on being state politicians. Every time I've been going out of my last meeting for all the twelve years, it's looked like you're going to put it down. I hope I should press the button, turn off the light, make sure to transfer the tasks and let the good employees rather work in the municipalities near where people live. That's what this is all about. That is why we should vote in favour of today's proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e868	The President records that there are at least many former or current county representatives here. Please, Njåstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e875	I ask people to listen to the former county representatives who are now standing on this pulpit and share their experience of how that level has worked, and to what extent it has benefited. I think there are even a number of former local politicians who have felt an incredible irritation about being overruled by the county council and getting reprisals and objections from both state politicians and county administrations. I think it is the great concern that lies in local democracy. I was actually going to say that there has been an interesting debate where everything has been about looking back in time. All the way to the representative Hoksrud came now and looked a little ahead and had great views to put down this level, the debate was really just about looking in the mirror, and about who did what. A representative from the Central Party even went back to 1837. Then I must almost remind you that the county as a direct elected body came in 1972. It doesn't have long history, nor does it have wide anchoring. It's not like these guys at Eidsvoll had their mind set when they created the Constitution. The county council has come and has had enormously low legitimacy. That's the whole debate here actually illustrates that there's no plurality for anything. There are not multiples to reverse the reforms that have been, there were not multiples for the reforms that have been, and there are not multiples to put down. It's the county councils' big problem that there's no plurality in this room for neither changing it, keeping it or putting it down. So it's a level that doesn't have support in the Storting, and that's how it's been with alternating numbers of growths, that one doesn't have the big support. Then we should recognize what's best for our inhabitants, and it's actually strengthening the local level. It's also a little bit interesting when you're going to do a number of European countries that have two levels. We can have a debate on European states. The centre party probably thought France's model is a good idea, with 34,665 municipalities where there are people in most people, but there are municipalities without people. Maybe that's how you want it in the Center Party. When you look at the tasks that southern European countries have given to municipalities, you can pick up the garbage and arrange a summer party. Norwegian municipalities have a great responsibility, and we want to develop it further, so comparing us with other European countries is going to be wrong. We want a country with a little over five million inhabitants to have strong municipalities that are responsible for defining land policies and providing facilities for its inhabitants, and then we have a state that ensures that the infrastructure is good, that the road network is good, and that we can transport our goods onto the continent. That's our model. It doesn't belong at home in that model, because it's simply a level that doesn't have a future going on. That is why we are pleased that several parties support our proposal this time. The next time we suggest it, there may be even more games, and then we get multiples to simplify Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e889	It is interesting to listen to confessions, both in view of those who have been and those who are state politicians – there are probably several of us who have been. But I'm still for three levels, for many reasons not included in this. Before 1972, as Njåstad pointed out in his article, probably the secondary schools were not as developed as they are today. That's part of the basis for and one of the engines of the structures we have. So it's not going to come from the fact that there's a certain part here that's more concerned with looking in the rear-view mirror, and then it's easy to punctuate on the trip – it's easy to drive outside the road. I believe that the debate here should have been more – and was, independently of what Mr Greni came up with – about the need to revitalise the intermediate level, the regional level. It was the main part of the Left, which was so strongly in favour of the regional reform, of which there are large parts left, even though the reversing comrades have been allowed to step on from the government taboos. I'm sure this is also going to develop in the future. But what is the challenge of what is being addressed – not with the proposal today, but with what the government will reverse – is that we will gradually have an a and b structure in the counties. There's a very big difference between what's popular, from Finnmark to Akershus. This will challenge structures around the generalist principle. What kind of tasks should be transferable? What kind of tasks should the counties carry out in the future? It is especially the centre party that has been at the forefront of this, and that is clearly responsible. Luckily, we saw that the Workers' Party still has a steering speed, was willing and clearly said that we must keep the Inland, regardless of the emissary installation from the representative Sandtrøen. I met that kind of post on the Bethel ship down at Kaia early in the 1970s, but it doesn't make much sense. I think you have to dry to control. Fortunately, the Labour Party did so in the interior, and I had hope of that for today's government as well. Instead of looking in the rear-view mirror at all times, it is always an advantage to look forward to what is possible. A little bit about the possibilities ahead: I hope, just like the Westerners and the trousers, that we're getting more problems transferred, but unfortunately, I don't think that the very smallest states are able to have new tasks. Therefore, the new debates around the counties that come to this Chamber must be about whether we should continue to have the generalist principle in all the counties. My answer there is not clear, but I think we need to make an assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e902	As Mr Njåstad has begun, very few are in the Chamber, including from the press, during this debate. It actually illustrates the challenge of the entire county council. It lacks legitimacy in the population. The centre party is talking about listening to people, and the Labour Party is saying that it is now the turn of ordinary people. I am allowed to use my own country, Vestfold and Telemark, which is governed by precisely those parties, where the county rapporteur, Terje Riis-Johansen, responds to a proposal from the People's Party in the county: having a referendum, no, this is too important for people, so it cannot be decided by the people. I can't believe it. For the Progress Party, it's listening to people and taking them seriously, and that's what we're doing. It should perhaps be a cross of thought that six municipalities in the Vestfold constituency, four run by the Workers' Party and two of the Right, all agree. We should think again, we can handle the problems ourselves, never before has it been more difficult to get something into our municipalities, they say. Then comes the county council: no, we have to have more problems. In the years I have been here, even under the red-green government, the country's state politicians have come and asked for help. So it was under the red-green government. More tasks – what did you get? On 1 January 2010, under the red-green government, the county had several tasks: 17 200 km more road, greeting the state. That's what you're asking now: please, take back the roads, help us. This has been done every year, and every time you discuss the county municipality, you don't ask the inhabitants. If you had asked the people, you would have got a clear answer. At least the media did it in our area. They said put it down. And most will split because it's hard, not because they want it. Until then we discussed aggregation, we could discuss it and say it: yes, I think it was wrong. Those states should have been laid down instead. You were so concerned about where the county house was supposed to be. Should it be in Tønsberg or in Skien? I asked several politicians from several parties about how often they had people visiting. They couldn't remember. It says a little bit about trying to look in the rear mirror and back and back and back. It's time to think new and take the people seriously. Listen to them and put it down. When the Center Party says, "No, they're so good and good," they say in the media at home. Kathrine Kleveland of the Center Party has said that – they are so good road owners. No, with respect to reporting: most serious accidents occur on the county road network. That's why the Progress Party believes: take the roads back to the state, as it was before 2010. I see the council is sitting and whining. There's nothing to laugh about; it's just serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e917	It was an interesting debate. I really didn't think I was going to get involved so much, but it was interesting to listen to the representatives of the Progress Party, who slaughtered the county council. I am in a municipality with 15,000 inhabitants, a neighbouring municipality of Kristiansand, and I do not see the major challenges with the county council, that they are the big problem. It's the State Manager we fight and face resistance from all the time. Every week in our municipality, the State Manager is an obstacle to development, it's not the county council. The county is politically overthrown, and you can talk to them. It's like we're sitting here on Stortinget, we can talk to, and that's the same thing when we sit on the local government at home. Small and medium-sized municipalities which are neighbouring municipalities of large municipalities cannot operate secondary schools alone. It's just not gonna work. We can't operate it in a good way. It is an important part of the county council's affairs, and we have to take care of that. We're not going to be squandered as a neighboring municipality to a large municipality, because it's the meat weight that counts when one hits and there's war between the municipalities. Then it is important for us to have the county as a balance between municipalities. If there's something we're going to fight against, and if there's someone we're going to take tasks from, it has to be the governor, and move those tasks over to the county. The county council is democracy, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e924	The representative Per Martin Sandtrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e929	It has been repeated several times in this debate, both from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, that the Centre Party is so concerned with the history of Norway – we talk so much about Norwegian history. Yes, we're busy and we're proud of the story in Norway – that's absolutely true. One of the things we're proud of is the way we've managed to take care of and develop communities across our country. There are few countries in the world that have achieved this in the same way as Norway, and our counties have been an important tool to take care of local communities all over Norway – living communities inside the forests, on our islands, and in the most distant part of the fjords. It's something to be proud of, and the way we've managed to do it, we're going to talk more about. If the representative of Skkelstad believes that it is looking in the rear-view mirror or is immature, he will hear more articles about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e934	After listening to the representatives of the Progress Party here, I wonder if we should take a crash course in the difference between the state administrator and the county council, because after traveling around for eleven years as a representative of the municipal committee, I can say that this is largely the government administrator's objections to the municipal politicians complain. I also have 20 years as a municipal politician, and I'm very annoyed by the state administrator's objections. Fortunately, we now have a platform that says this should be drastically reduced, and fortunately, we have a government council that has already given marshalls to state administrators that local democracy should be respected in a completely different way. He who was concerned about the naust-building and differentiated beach-zone policy, I can be comforted that he does not have to remove the county council, because we have removed the Solberg government and got a different policy in that area already, so it is implemented. We're being accused of looking in the rear-view mirror. No, we're committed to strengthening the county council, but if we're to strengthen the county council, it's a prerequisite that we now break up again the dysfunctional structures that came with the coercion, that we get structures that work, that have legitimacy among the people, legitimacy among the county politicians, and legitimacy among the employees. We're about to put that in place. The second thing that needs to be put in place is the funding of these county municipalities. In fact, the previous government agreed with us to strengthen the county council as a regional development actor. It is well and good, but from 2013 until the government of Solberg left, the tool, the regional policy instruments, was reduced by over 50 pst. I think it was again approx. 43 pst. – don't take me on that number. It is clear that when removing the instruments, one cannot expect an increased role and greater success in that work. Then we have to have the will in this room to transfer more tasks to the county. It may not be the case that the State will be left with all the tasks. We have to listen to the states: what can we do better than the state, and what can we move closer to the inhabitants? The centre party made many proposals when we discussed the reform of the county, on new tasks for the counties. They were unfortunately voted down here in this room. And yes, there are many state politicians from the Central Party. That's because the voters have wanted a lot of state politicians from the Central Party. There are probably a lot of people who have a lot of pay, and some people have pay as state politicians while they're sitting in this room, but there's no argument at all to shut down the county council. And these aren't Senterpart representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e947	I perceive the President instead so that he encouraged that if there were several state politicians in the Chamber who had not taken the floor, they would have to speak in the debate. I may have misunderstood, but now I'm at least up here. I've followed the debate with interest, and I was going to do something as unusual as taking the Central Party a little in defense, at least the Central Party in the county I'm from, Westland. First of all, I also agree with Mr. Greni on one point, that when a member of the Progress Party here, it seems that the Progress Party does not have quite a distinct distinction between the State Administrator and the County Municipality. I'd like to invite more representatives to take a closer look at that. I think a lot of the criticism that comes from the Progress Party comes in connection with the State administrator, which is not a popular body, but a part of the government. Otherwise there's a good deal of good points in the criticism that comes there. But when the representative Greni says that if we're going to develop the state level, it's an intention that we split up these terrible new states so that they get old again, then I'm very happy that we're not there in the West. I'm also very happy that the West Party is as clear as we are in the Left Party, in the Right Party and in the Labour Party that we're not going to do rematches. We've got a big and good new state that – and now I'm quoting the Center Party's executives in Westland – after the merger has delivered good services and received feedback on a good and constructive cooperation with municipalities and businesses, teams and associations. It's an opinion that I share, and I'm very glad that the county council in Westland has now put the debate on rematching dead, with the support of a clear majority also in the Central Party in Westland. So I want to pay tribute to the Center Party to stand up for the new West and not want to change and return to the old days in our part of the country, then get a hold of it in other parts of the country. At least I'm optimistic on Westland's behalf. Then Westland has made another important decision. They have said that this new, strong state must now have more tasks. New tasks are important, that's what we belong to. To date, this government has only taken out of its state of affairs, one of which is responsible for the purchase of air routes, one of which is responsible for fishing ports. Now the West is clear: a large, strong country in the West must have more tasks. The time has come, and at least the left will stand for it. And after what I've heard in this room, there can actually be a good hope that it can get a wide multiple forward as well. So hey, the Center Party in Westland, hey, new and bigger counties! This points forward, we've got a strong Trondelag, a strong Agder in the South, a strong Inland, a strong Westland. This is actually pointing forward, and then we will have to live with the fact that there will have to be further reforms in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e962	I'm going to nuance the story of Bjørlo's representative when it's about the Center Party in Westland, but I have to get back to it in a little bit, because first I want to say that there has been an incredibly special debate to sit on and right. Perhaps the most special thing is that one in the debate seems primarily to be responsible for us in the Central Party because the county has a lack of tasks or an unwieldy structure. The party of progress, which is the proposer here, has been completely freed from eight years of power in this country. They went through reforms that people didn't ask for, that cost a lot of money, that didn't lead to less bureaucracy, but more, as it's perceived in many municipalities. The left goes up to the pulpit and says that they have vitalized the county council. To the extent that one has vitalized something, it must be the boundaries, for the tasks that underlie the whole reform, the tasks that caused the borders to change did not come. We need to decentralize several governmental tasks to municipalities and counties. Yes, we must give local government powers, at both municipal and county level, more real power. I believe local politicians very often and know that they have responsibilities, but in meeting with the sectoral authorities they lack power, the power to make holistic assessments. We need to strengthen local self-government. Then I would like to add, to Bjørlo's story and quotation from statesmen in the West, that the leader of the West has just pointed to this: the tasks did not come, and the responsibility for the failure of this reform has been left to those who have been in power in this country for the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e975	Some representatives thought that some people should get a little better into things, and some people thought that they might want to take a crash course. I might think that both the Center Party and the Left, who thought that someone else should do it, should take that crash course on their own. Yes, the State Manager is a huge challenge, but that's not exactly the debate we're going to have today. There is no doubt that the Progress Party would have removed the mass of the sour and pipe objected to by the State Manager. But it is the majority in this room that decides what the State Manager should object to, and the State Manager is the government's prolonged arm. That debate, about national policy guidelines, hundreds of feet and everything possible, we would like to take it, but it does not belong here today. Someone tried to say that objections are something that the county council does not do much of. In my home municipality, it is an industrial area where it has been set up for industrial activities, including: The car theme has been allowed to establish itself. But the county council does not want Elkopen and Jysk to be allowed to establish themselves in the same area. Of course, that would be quite natural. It's about the exact same type of business. That's how the county council has become, and that's what they're doing – raise objections, create problems and make sure that it's not local democracy that's allowed to decide. Municipal politicians should not be allowed to decide because the county council comes up with objections and reviews local democracy. As I said, when I hear how great this is – why do politicians dare to ask the people? Only the Inland have had a survey on this issue, where half of them chose not to answer. It's also a sign that you're not satisfied with this. In my state, the Center Party couldn't let people get involved and decide, because it was too important. No, it's not too important, because it's the people who are going to use these services. If you think of it as the Progress Party, or as 40 p.m. in the survey said, put down the whole thing, it's a clear signal. Over 30 pst. says that they really don't know, but I think that if you had a debate about whether we were going to put down the county council or keep it, there might be a lot of those who are insecure, too, that you would want to put it down. But it was a theme that would not be allowed to discuss, nor around the municipalities. The best local democracy is probably the local democracy that people live in, that is, in the municipalities. We are a country with a little over five million people and have an administration to handle twenty million people. I think it's very good to lower that level of government, remove some politicians, remove some administration. Then all the good people who work in the county municipalities now can move the tasks out to the municipalities and some tasks to the state. It can be seen that giving county councils tasks with the roads, as the red-green government did, was a hopeless proposal. It was impossible for the states to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e988	We have an extensive source of experience from sitting in the county, many of us. We who are throngers probably have a slightly different experience with the county municipality than the representative of Hoksrud. And the Center Party has become an avid follower of what is now called Trundellag. I think that's good. Similarly, it is for Western countries: although there are some people who still want to see in the rearview mirror, I think it's getting fewer and fewer, fortunately. We also look at the polls – fewer and fewer of those looking in the rearview mirror. So it's a belief in this. I still think there are some people who misunderstand when it comes to those who object, etc. We fully agree that the task of the Governor should be a great deal of control. It was also the previous government. I noticed something that surprised me a little bit: the representative Erling Sande had not got something that was quite essential in transferring tasks, namely gathering together the road administration. I have to say that it was surprising that such an article came, when there was a great eagerness to gather together the road administration, among other things. from counties. But there will be no revitalization with the kind of debate we have today, where we have someone who wants to wind up the level, and someone who wants to see a few hundred years back in time. There won't be any revitalization like this. We also need to have a vitalization debate to defend that level in the future. That was precisely the project of the regional reform. Fortunately, it has been understood in the West, Agder, Trendelag and Inland. They are the ones who will be the winners, along with the great counties, like Akershus and Oslo. Unfortunately, I think it might be a bit bumpy for those who have chosen to leave the counties in which they were inside. I think it can be challenging. I specifically agree that we should transfer more tasks, but some of the states can handle the tasks with the size they have today. But the Left is constantly going to be excited about getting new tasks to the regional level. There must be absolutely no doubt about it. We don't want to look in the rear mirror, just like the Center Party does. We'll look forward to it. We have to look at the possibilities. Now there's the status of what's going on in the future, with the states becoming what they're going to be in the spring. Then we have to revitalize that level, no matter what the geography might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e997	I thought I had actually said what I was going to say in this debate, but when the representative, Mr. Greni – as I understand it – pointed out that one has not understood, I think it is okay to take the floor again. As a local and state politician, the governor perceives that he is an extended arm for this assembly. He's going to make sure that there's a plank, that it's followed up completely in the outside. One must in some way take responsibility for it a appendage of tasks to it. When I said that my post went on the set of plans, the plans that you put here on the house are also part of it. I'm thinking a must simplify, I said, and I don't think I've misunderstood the task of the governor. I had hoped that others would take that glove and say, well, you know, we see that things have to simplify, we see that we have to make it easier for ordinary people to build what they want to build. I had hoped that the representative from the Central Party too would have understood. So I think there must be a comment to the representative Bjørlo's post, when a left-wing politician gives his such broad honor to the Western Central Party. I know – and I hope that others know – that the representative Bjørlo was the one who negotiated himself and the left into a plurality in Western Europe, along with the red-green ones. One must see the reward he now gives, in the light of the position he has had.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1009	The representative Helge André Njåstad has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1014	It is very nice that the Progress Party is able to create a debate on the County Municipality. It is the most uplifting debate that has ever been about the level in this Chamber, I believe. I have a good argument for why it is a good idea to have the county council, but I have heard many good arguments for why it is a good idea to support the proposals of the Progress Party. What makes me draw a short comment is the Center Party, which is able to say that the main responsibility for the county's not getting any more tasks lies with those who have been running for the last eight years, but who don't have multiples right now. It is the largest discharge that can be made. The responsibility lies with those who at any time have the management responsibility and sit with the plurality. Moving tasks is only possible. They have multiples to move all the tasks they want, they can't be blamed in the last eight years because they don't move tasks now. We want to challenge them on what they want to move down to the county councils. So it's very exciting what Mr. Greni said about the governors, that it's a change of pace. I could well intend to listen to someone who has experienced it, because not many people feel that things have been better.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1023	I didn't intend to take the word any more in this matter, but one feels a certain commitment, even if one feels quite alone here one sits. There were several representatives who almost accused Progress Party representatives of not knowing the difference between county and state administration. As a former rapporteur and a long-standing local politician, it would be quite alarming if I did not know the difference. Then I think I'd had quite major challenges. What I might have thought of as one of the biggest differences was that the state administrator could actually be negotiated with. It was quite possible to meet up at the office, and the state manager we had in old West Agder was extremely forward-looking, and we always came up with good solutions. What you can't negotiate with is county decisions. They are not up for debate. They exist – anyway. So when we feel out of hand locally, we have no opportunity to negotiate. And when representatives first discuss this with the state administrator, it is sometimes a bit tempting to see objections from the environmental departments in the county and from the state administrator – they are so much the same in their statements that you actually have to read the heading to see the difference. It says in itself that there is no need to have it. Then there are many arguments in the hall that testify to little trust in local self-government and not least in the administration of municipalities. There are several representatives who frame tasks that lie with the county – although there are not so many – but the Progress Party trusts that many of these tasks will be carried out locally. There is therefore no argument that the county should pass that they have any tasks. The Progress Party has confidence in local self-government and the local population, and decisions are taken where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1034	I had not intended to take the word in the matter, but now felt that I had to. As a state politician and be inside now, I just have to tell you a little about what it's like, after hearing all that wisdom or – if I'm allowed to say – the insanity that comes out here from some representatives. It's touching to hear the Central Party say that you're so very reasonable in Westland, that they have this big county and will continue to be the county, and then you show that it's so unreasonable with the small counties in the Gulf. I want to draw the representatives' attention to the fact that there are 630,000 people living in the West, and in Akershus – the small county that may come back – there are also 630 000 people living there. Maybe it's time you put down the whole county level, when you talk about this county as big and robust, which is no bigger than the ones you're talking about as small. I would also like to say that it is pointed out in this debate that you do not believe in the municipalities by saying that they cannot take care of high school. Then I have to draw attention to the fact that the municipalities work very well with intermunicipal cooperation. They can also cope with this in the future in the case of secondary schools. With all the lack of knowledge that has emerged in the debate, it may be time for us to shut down the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1043	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1062	Thank you for a good naughty performance. Two years of covid-19 pandemic have changed the working life of Norway more and faster than any state reform, law or regulation has ever done. In all occupations that do not require a quiet presence, it is now easier and more acceptable to free themselves from the old, large office building where everyone meets daily at each of their cell offices or reside together in open office landscapes. It is not to understand that everyone now wants to sit in an eternal home office, as many experienced in the Korona era, but most people do not want to return to the old working day, to the daily endless commuter journeys into the city in the morning – the system that we have also dimensioned the road and rail system around our cities for fainting costs. No, now people will have more freedom and flexibility, freedom to live their good lives – flexibility to find solutions for a good working day – and an employer who will provide it with new forms of work community and a secure framework for a good working day. This revolution in working life opens up fantastic opportunities for District Norway. Business has already thrown itself around. Large enterprises, small enterprises, start-up and business start-ups are now making it possible for them to be added as cages throughout the country. They want the best people, whether they live in Stovner or Stryn – or maybe half a year in each place. The business community is now dealing with decentralised, smaller local units, preferably co-located with others in new, creative and highly diverse forms of work community in small and large places around the country, and with a corporate culture that says from the top that that's what they want. Those who work decentralized are not outgoings, but a self-evident part of the community. So far in giving their added freedom and trust, the state has not come. The same state that in large words talks about active district policies and, as it does, professional arrangements that document the importance of the decentralisation of state jobs in order to be closed down with future industrial policies is strongly behind. Most state agencies have no strategy to decentralize their work. The state has no plan to facilitate the creation of a good, flexible common working environment for the state to be added around District Norway, in addition to the four pilots of the State House in District Norway, which the previous government started up, and which – cross the roof and bank on the table – is on the list of reforms the new government has not stopped or reversed because one is afraid of new things. On the other hand, the new government has removed the funds from the previous government to make it easier for government agencies to afford space for their employees in the common working environment in District Norway. According to the Ministry of Local Affairs it was unnecessary because the market takes care of this itself. There's a claim that shows a disturbing distance between the world as a believer is in a departmental corridor in Oslo, and how it really is for a state-owned person on the floor with a dream of moving to a place in District Norway and taking the job with it. Getting large government agencies to decentralize their own business is as heavy as moving a church yard by leaving the job to the people who are there. In either case, it must actually force from the outside, and in our case, clear political direction from the top, from the government and the accumulation. Perhaps each central state office, directorate and supervision should now have a target figure of that, for example. one third of the work by 2024 should be organised for remote jobs and illuminated as ‘remote’ work with workplaces throughout the country, with the provision of connection to a local State house or another type of work community in each bus and labour market region. Perhaps the state, as the Western Initiative has played out in the West, should provide a relocating guarantee for job number two if a young couple want to move from a big city to District Norway because one of them gets the possibility of a private employer, and the partner works in the state. In this way, each and every young worker avoids going canoeing to his intermediary and hoping for goodwill and apathy, the person concerned has the right on his side. Now it's urgent, now shoot new Norway's speed with a more flexible working life that facilitates good people to live all over the country. It's happening here, it's happening now. Now, all state agencies must be given the opportunity to allow the government to allow the job to be taken out to a new life in District Norway is wanted, it is good, it is something that employers should provide. Modern district policy is about apprehending the chances of a new time giving us, not about using energy to reverse and dream about things like they were before. That's what this interpellation is about. I look forward to the Council of State's reply and the debate we are going to have here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1087	The government is taking Norway in a new and fairer direction. We are pursuing a policy for stronger communities, growth and development throughout the country. We want people to be able to live a good life wherever they choose to live. Norway needs a much more powerful district policy than we have seen in recent years. The policy of centralisation is to be systematically replaced by a renewed and strengthened rural policy, in which the breadth of policy will contribute to renewed optimism and growth opportunities throughout the country. We're doing great. The free income of the municipal sectors has increased sharply. Good frameworks for municipalities and county councils are in themselves an important contribution to good services close to people throughout the country. The organisation of decentralised and flexible study services has been significantly strengthened. There is an increased focus on nutrient-oriented and green instruments in the district policy area. The revenue deduction in the action zone has increased, and the escalation of efforts for high-speed broadband across the country and lower ferry prices have begun to mention something. The Government will renew and strengthen district policy and will follow up the recommendations of the Norman Committee and the Brandtzeg Committee as part of the basis for a new communication to the Stortinget on district policy. This will be presented to Stortinget next spring. A strengthened state localisation policy will be part of the government’s efforts to achieve a more balanced development in the country. State jobs should benefit the whole country and be spread geographically. We know that state-owned enterprises contribute to the creation of broad and more solid labour markets in the regions in which they are located, and it increases the activity of relocation. Under the Solberg government, the country has become more centralised. The least central municipalities have had significantly fewer government employees, while the growth has been strongest in the most central municipalities. Structural reform and the closure of service locations within a number of departments have increased the disparities in the share of government jobs in different labour markets. The gradual growth of existing establishments reinforces centralisation. During the period 2001–2021, governments have decided to relocate and re-establish some 4 300 State jobs outside the Oslo area. Most of these have landed in the other major cities. During the same period, the country has grown by about 72 000 jobs, and the growth comes where the country is already located, that is, in central areas. The government is concerned with building strong environments of competence across the country through a more even distribution of public jobs. In order to mitigate centralisation and create a more even distribution of government jobs, the government will strengthen efforts at location outside the major cities. This applies both to structural change and to new establishment and to the location of the growth of existing establishments. Furthermore, the government will better facilitate distance work in state enterprises, not as a substitute for a decentralising localisation policy, but as a complement to further strengthening district policies. Increased use of distance work in the country will be important to increase access for the rural population to skilled jobs and may help to strengthen local environments of competence. The organisation of distance work may also improve the recruitment of the required skills and provide far more access to professional workplaces in the country without itself requiring a change in the location of state activities. Many municipalities have a high level of commitment to space-dependent work, and I encourage municipalities to facilitate office communities where government employees can also be invited in. This is also done in many places. Remote work in the country should be combined with opportunities for belonging to a local office community where available or appropriate. Both for the employer and for the employee, such a solution can be beneficial. In the case of the pilot Statens hus, as the representative Bjørlo mentions, we closely follow up the four pilots in Narvik, Orkland, Lvgal and City. There is good work in all places, and we believe that the lessons learned from pilots will be important for the further development of the smaller location policy. I would also like to express the ambitions of the Hurdal Platform for the development of local service centres. The country has long been leaving parts of the country locally. Even with an increasing degree of digitisation, there is a need to move more of the country's user-oriented services closer to people. The government is working on a follow-up to this in the same way as it is working on concreteising the Hurdals platform’s policy on regional and rural growth agreements. A more coordinated, comprehensive rural policy will be an important part of a strengthened and renewed rural policy. The government has clear ambitions for the whole of Norway, and the districts are to experience a government that is moving in the same direction as themselves and that is actively helping to reduce distance congestion and strengthen the opportunities available around it. Most importantly, the broad rural policy needs to be combined with a number of targeted actions. Localisation policy is an important part of this, including the provision of facilities for government employees to work more decentralisedly than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1119	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for the high ambitions of an active district policy, which I feel the Council of State has. I am also very pleased that the Council of State began its contribution by establishing something that is also on the Hurdal Platform, namely that the government will build its district policy on the Norman and Brandtzeg committees' reports and recommendations there and use it as a basis for the new district policy a no-designer. It's important, because it's a knowledge base that's not party-political, but it's broadly composed, and it gives some leadership that I think is very important to bring with it. Part of it is that in the future people will have greater freedom of choice in how they will live their lives, combined with the fact that there will be a shortage of labour and a tear for the people. It simply means that it's not enough just to create a state workplace a place in District Norway, we're forced to create a collection of attractiveness that makes young people actually want to stay there. It's about building quality in the cities, and it's about being part of a larger, community of competences and feeling like part of a community. Therefore, I am not sure that the solution is necessarily that each municipality facilitates that one and one State-sponsored sit there. Of course, it's better than nothing, but I think you need to work to create more of the kind of collective environment of competence, where an actual part of a state community in a large plant and the competence environment is a big government establishment. These include: The pilots of the State House, that one is a real part of a government administration, not a random person sitting at a municipal house with them added to the state. I think that thinking becomes important. I also think it is extremely important to make demands on the state budgets that the addition of the right to work decentralised is part of the expectations of a modern state as an employer, just as it is in the business world. There I would like to challenge the Council of State even more clearly if one would actually give more clarity – call it – to the state budgets that working ‘remote’, working abroad, is something that would facilitate. It shouldn't be up to each and every intermediary if one is positive or negative to it for its addition, it's actually a top-level expectation that the way we work is the new normal in the state, just as it's about to become it in the business world in Norway. I hope I'm a theme we can come back to a little later, but I thank you for the answer so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1136	As I said, the pilots at the State House will be something we follow, and something that can provide good lessons and inspiration on how to accommodate locally. So I think we'll look for a little bit of varied solutions here. There are, as I said, a number of places – I could have gone through a long list of different established types of office communities around the country that have come into existence without a specific state support system, but by finding out in different ways, including, among others, private and public. the county councils play a role and use the resources with which they are and equip them in order to facilitate this type of activity. Then I want to say that there is nothing in today's law that prevents the further use of remote work, but there is no right there. I think we should go into this discussion with the assumption that, after all, the employer has a right of governance, but with the intention that it should be better put in place so that more people can choose remote work as a possible solution. I believe that in many cases it can also strengthen the recruitment opportunities of state enterprises themselves, as well as that we meet important objectives of district policy. For example, we can look at the Loan Fund, which in recent years has been using remote work and outsourced for people with free location to recruit for job vacancies, which are among the professions that are difficult to reach. By doing so, they have extended the recruitment basis and got more qualified people than they would otherwise have. So it's an example to follow that a state enterprise can go out actively to try to recruit wider, even beyond where you're located. I would also like to look at, as one instrument here, how we, for example. may provide a guide to State activities which may be used as a basis for the assessments to be made by individual enterprises in the future. In the end, I just want to clarify one thing, because I think there is a broad consensus that this is a good measure, but: there has to be something that complements state localization policy, and does not come as a substitute. There is a number of heavier handles to ensure that the state is located sufficiently decentralised, and then remote work can come as an addition to it, and not as a substitute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1149	We experienced in the previous case that a proposal maker from a party that was the most active in that debate took the presence in the Chamber as a signal of the interest around the topic to be debated. I also laid the foundations of district policy in my post. Now we go a step further, and I record that there is even thinner in the hall, also among the party that was most active in the debate in the previous case. In the last eight years, reforms and centralisation have had several unfortunate consequences for the districts. In the period 2013 to 2020, there were over 20 000 more State jobs in Norway. Nevertheless, the majority of Norwegian municipalities now have fewer State employees than when the Right Party and the Progressive Party took over the government power in 2013. The answer to why it has become this is simple. To use the rapporteur in his own words: the state has left us. In addition, I think there are several politicians from district councils who have exactly the same opinion. The state has left the districts, and they have gathered in the big cities. During Erna Solberg's reign, Tøndelag was added to 3,201 state jobs. 3 191 of them ended up in Trondheim, while typical district municipalities have been demolished for 342 state jobs in the same period. We need a fairer distribution of jobs between cities and countries. And of course, many of these jobs in cities are related to hospitals and universities, and of course we're happy with them. It must continue, too, but there are other types of jobs that can be moved out with great advantage. If we look at concrete relocations of jobs decided by the government of Solberg, we see that one third of the jobs have moved out of Oslo and have ended up in the other big cities, like Bergen and Trondheim. By comparison, they were given about 200 least central municipalities nine new state jobs. This shows that the relocation of state jobs has been largely about moving jobs to large cities other than Oslo. This means that the State withdraws from the districts and thus does not contribute to the decentralisation of services, but to regional centralisation. This is not about the work of individual municipalities to build attractiveness. In this context, most municipalities are the victims of national overall decisions. An overview of reforms and interventions carried out over the past eight years confirms that these have been clearly centralising and have weakened the districts. Not least, a number of governmental bodies have made changes in the regional structure more robust. Many State jobs have disappeared from the municipalities and into the regional administrations. At the same time, the decision-making authority is centralised away from local communities and into regional units. However, there are tools to change this. The Government Platform is clearly committed to strengthening and renewing district policy. We introduce state subsidiarity principles. Government establishments shall be organised in such a way as to ensure that their competences are as close as possible to those of the population. By means of a reinforced infrastructure, such as fibre and broadband, it can be facilitated for government employees to work decentralisedly. Important services must be near where people are to live and live their lives, in all parts of the country. In the establishment of local service centres, citizens will have increased access to state services, such as the issue of passports and driving licences, the short route to services such as legal advice and the establishment of local service squares.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1168	Thank you very much to the interpellant Bjørlo for putting this matter on the agenda. It needs District Norway, and it needs the whole country. Among fjords, valleys, mountains, cities and coasts, we've recently really got our eyes up so that you can take the job around the country, that this is fully possible and of course can work very well. The state, as a large employer, should take a substantial responsibility to ensure that many now have the opportunity to take the job with them on the transfer. Creating a cluster where skills, wise ideas and varied jobs in both public and business can merge is the way to go, where state jobs can be an important catalyst for growth, drive and optimism in our communities. In that case, it would be impossible to take the job with you from Oslo and directly contribute to development at both local, regional and national levels. Local communities must play on the comparative advantages they have. That is, we have expertise and decisions closely where resources are being developed. At a time when social development is moving fast, as digitisation takes place, it also gives us room for politicians to see new patterns and then make policies. It means a flexible working life where people can create their dreams based on what suits them best. It is therefore worth noting last week's announcement that the Workers' Party is now moving the Export Strategy Council from Ålesund to Oslo, contrary to the thinking that is now being raised in the interpellation, and that the competence should be close to where we are developing the resources. In Western countries, we are not talking about how to design any referendums on dissolution, but how to link local communities even more closely together and strengthen regional development. The Solberg government has implemented a very necessary municipal reform that makes our municipalities more suitable to take on larger tasks and government jobs. The result is that strong and attractive municipalities are flourishing that are full of optimism. But the Centre Party must follow its own promises from the election campaign and have confidence that these new municipalities are fully capable of accepting these jobs. The district hubs may not be the new oil, but it's a way to think about the organization of our work that's unique and that we can't afford not to test out. Playing regions strongly outside the Central East is important to stimulate development across the country. We see examples of attractive municipalities where people can go on a top trip to lunch, do an exciting and rewarding job before dinner and then have a selection of urban offers in the evening. The Solberg government had a strong focus on district hubs and the strategy for small towns and major agglomerations as regional power centres. There is no reason why the state should now slow down; one should actually accelerate at an even greater rate. The big government must now use the momentum we have in the changed pattern of relocation and the trends we see, and take an active step towards spreading knowledge and jobs across the country. Olav H. Hauge talked about "the dream," and I know many who want the dream of getting their job where you want to live to become a reality. In fact, we can't afford to miss these synergies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1185	I will first begin by commending the interpellant for a good initiative. This is an important debate. There are tremendous opportunities in the decentralisation of state workplaces. There are two ways to go: to put more institutions out of Oslo and the largest cities, and at the same time to give more opportunities to do their job from home or near their home. It pointed to the time of the Solberg government, and that there have been facilities for more state jobs outside the major cities. The fact is, that's not what was happening. In the first six years of the Solberg government, 261 municipalities lost State jobs, despite the fact that there were well over 20 000 more State employees during the same period. In 260 of the municipalities that lost state jobs, there were 5,820 fewer employees. By comparison, there were 4,546 more State jobs in Oslo and 12,895 more State jobs in the ten largest cities. So what happened was a strong centralization of state jobs. We applaud everyone who will help reverse that trend. It's very, very good. I can take one example of the effect of locating state jobs in the districts, from my own municipality of residence, Tynset. When the Senterpartiet was last in government, we decided that Norwegian health records should be located at Tynset. One of the first Right Party government did was stop that decision. There were several years of debate in the main hall. There was also support from the Christian People's Party and the Left, so we got a majority on the Stortinget that decided that Norwegian health archives should be located at Tynset, despite the fact that the government had initially worked the opposite. There were estimated 58 state jobs. They ran efficiently, so it got a little less, but it got over 50. And in just a few years, over 100 new dwellings and apartments were built on Tynset. You can see that the center is different now, it's a huge optimism. This is an example of the effect of one decision. One decision led to this. So it's a very important topic. And under the pandemic, we've all seen the possibilities of working from home. I have not heard of any state institution where the work has stopped as a result of more people working from home. I have not heard that this has led to any major problems. So we have to do everything we can to make it easier for more people to work close to their home. When we see that more people can work from home, there are several steps that need to be taken. One thing is to directly facilitate it, but we also have to build broadband. This government has a very clear objective that all in Norway — all — will have broadband over the course of this four-year period. It is absolutely, absolutely essential. But municipal economy is also relevant in this. If more people want to work in Norwegian districts, we need to ensure that there are good welfare services in the districts, and that there are good kindergartens, schools, hospitals, etc. It is also a paradox when we discuss state jobs and the role of the state in the districts, that many districts feel that the state is withdrawing. There's a centralization press on Nav, a gunman, police, courts, etc. At the same time, a number of municipalities feel that the state is more involved and detailed in some areas, such as: as regards the ability of municipalities to manage their areas. I was back a few weeks in West Wagøy. There they are afraid of centralization, of course, but they also feel that they have been refused housing because the residential areas are not close to the bus stop or the store, in an area with large areas. It must also be relevant to discuss here. There's a lot of excitement to discuss, but there's no need to shoot down the initiative from the interpellant. This is a good initiative and important to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1202	Access to the high-speed Internet and digitisation are fundamentally changing our society, and the global pandemic has seen momentum in this development. It changes the need for transport. Yesterday, the Transport and Communications Committee visited Router here in Oslo and saw the value of access to real-time data for the organisation of public transport, for example. It changes business, it changes working life the way government and interpellant showed, it changes everyday life to each of us, and it creates a sea of new possibilities. These are the possibilities that we in the Center Party have been busy for a long time. I was reminded of it today when the Minister of Defence was in the Chamber, because Minister of Defence Enoksen was the municipal minister a few years ago and had «Breiband to the district» as one of his masters. Clearly, access to that infrastructure is crucial if we are to achieve a development in our entire country, and if we are to achieve – which is a theme here today – a fair distribution of government jobs across the country as well. This is not just the ability to move their workplaces, or to work location-dependently, but it will make everyday life richer for a lot of people. One can combine an exciting job with access to nature and outdoor life and interests related to single sites in the country, whether it is skiing conditions in the Sogndals Valley, fishing at Finnmarksvidda or coastal culture in Lofoten. Too many communities around the country can increase urbanisation and activity. In my home area, we have more examples. Peak activities in Förde and Måløy and the Borgund, Lærdal working community are examples of workplaces where there are people with different roles and different relationships to both state and private activities. We who get to work on transport and communication in this house also see the need not only to maintain but also to increase efforts in the development of the high-speed internet. I am glad that the government has both started that job, that escalation, and also has ambitions for everyone to have this access before the end of the period. There I also hope that the interpellant's initiative here can get the Left and the other former government parties to see this need and also be involved in the common venture. I must be allowed to say that this debate also opens the possibility for the former Left Government Party to remedy the policy they have pursued through the centralisation of important district jobs over many years. It was unfortunately the hallmark of the previous government's policy. Many communities have experienced no more state workplaces, but far fewer, through the centralisation of the police, the judiciary, Nav and other functions. It described the representative of Sørvik in a clear way. Now we have the opportunity to get optimism and growth back in the whole country. So I listened to a few clarifications – and the Council of State also said – that this should not be at the expense of the policy of relocation of state enterprise, the location of state agencies, companies and supervision outside the Oslo area. It has to be added to it, because it also means how you have an environment with leadership and holistic management of institutions. It can add many places around the country extra both jobs and activity, as described by Tynset here instead. Interpellant highlighted the need to co-locate different state workplaces within a building or within a location. I would say that I agree with the Council of State that we must also dare to see a little wider. Some places can definitely be a solution; other places can simply add their own community-based or private-owned teams, open entirely new opportunities and create new ideas, both for the state enterprise and for the private enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1219	I would like to thank the representative, Bjørlo, for the interview. It's an important debate he's going to. So I hope there's a new course for the left, and that Bjørlo has such a weight in the left that he can get a change in the left on this. This is an important matter for many districts. When I have traveled around Agder lately, the biggest problem for the rapporteurs and local politicians is that they have lost all the State jobs. We have lost the Länsmannskontoret, we have lost the tax collector, we have lost the state section of the Nav office – it has moved out. I traveled to Evje in Seatesdal, where the traffic station has opened four hours a week. There are no jobs left. That's the challenge for the great workers we're talking about here, who are going to be allowed to sit and work decentralized. They may have a spouse who is also going to have a job in the community. When I was at Alcoa on the Lista in winter, they said that the most important job and the main partner they had was the hospital in Flekkefjord, because their employees, the engineers, had nurses with whom they were married. Having government jobs out in the municipalities, out in the rural communities, is what builds the rural communities. This is a good addition, but unfortunately: it does not build business, it does not build a region, it does not build municipal centres with a few workers who sit and work decentralized. It is the local head of the enterprise and the local head of department who is actually involved in creating something in the communities. But I hope that this is perhaps a new course that this government is setting and that is supported – broad support – in Stortinget. What I have heard in today's debate, both from the Right and from the Left, are new tactics, and I am infinitely happy about that, because then I think maybe we can do something. If there's just a small majority that wants this on the Biggest, it's so much harder, but where there's a broad, solid majority, an actually gets something to do with getting jobs out to the districts. When we're going to have broadband for everyone, it's actually possible to sit at the top of Åseral and work in Oslo. But then we'd have to. This government will, and I believe we will, but we have to stand together and pull the load in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1233	Thank you for the interesting contributions and contributions in the debate, even though I notice that the representatives from the government party are very busy describing the eight previous years and spending more time on it than in the four years that are ahead of us – although there are also interesting signals that are given about the four years that are ahead of us. I am so old that I was also with the previous time left in government, under Bondevik II. Then there was a large-scale relocation of state directorates from Oslo. I know how tough that fight is, and I also know that when the Central Party took over the responsibility and the impending Minister of State Liv Signe Navarsete didn't get so much emigration, the debt was that with Left, Christian People's Party and Right in government there was so much emigration that now the resistance was too strong in the state bureaucracy that it was possible for the Senter Party to do something more. So time changes. I think the best thing that shows is that this is tough for all governments, and it requires constant pressure. But what we'll see in the years to come is that there'll be tighter times in the Norwegian economy. There are not many new supervision and new directorates or thousands of new state jobs to come, and at least not with the clear promises given by this government in other areas, which will require large resources at the same time as it is to be streamlined into the Norwegian economy. In this case, it must mean that what is outlined here is that if there is some volume, a government job is actually to move it out of the big cities. It'll be exciting to see. Bringing things like this forward is, of course, exciting and interesting to follow, and it could be a powerful grip. But until now we have only seen one specific case, and it was that the new government has parked the proposal from the previous government to create a new export office in Ålesund – it has been parked by this government. And then we'll see what new initiatives are coming. But I agree with the Council of State that more flexible state jobs are a complement to state localization policy, not the only tool. Nevertheless, I believe it may be a stronger measure and a stronger instrument than perhaps it has been described as by more people in this debate. It's about the whole of the world of work changing. A new, young worker would expect an employer to provide flexibility in where to work. It will come as a bullet of a claim against the state as an employer, and then I actually believe the state must have a somewhat more active hold on it. The government must have a more active hold of it than to create a government etator guide that makes this possible, and there is no law to prevent it. This requires, I think, an offensiveness in that that's how we want to work, that's how we're going to work. And the fact that government and greatness give clear notice to all state agencies that offering people the opportunity to work decentralisedly, it should be a standard way of working in government... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1246	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1251	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this debate. It shows that there is a broad consensus that this is an important and interesting theme to continue working on. I agree that the goal should not be to look as closely as possible at what has happened in the last eight years, but nevertheless: the statistics are clear that, especially in district municipalities, government jobs have simply disappeared from much of District Norway, while the country's jobs in volume have grown considerably, and that is a topic that needs to be addressed. I also remind you of what the Brandtzæg Committee, and indeed the Norman Committee, spoke about, and which is the basis of the interpellation. The Brandtsæg Committee said: ‘The sample considers that it is possible to influence the strong forces of centralisation, but that this requires a high level of ambition with targeted instruments, including decentralised localisation of public institutions.’ The Norman Committee had the same idea of looking at several attempts at decentralised units in state-owned businesses. The Norman Committee also pointed to the pilot around the State House, and as I said in my introduction, the interesting attempt is to move on. But we're also going to notice that these State Houses are now being established in municipalities with relatively large population. It would have been difficult to find smaller district municipalities to implement the type of pilot in, precisely because the state workplaces are gone. Then there is no one to co-locate. So once again we see that there is a whole in this, and that we have to keep up the localization policy. And now, when we're discussing the possibility of being step-independent when you're employed in the state, it's important that it doesn't seem centralizing either. When Bjørlo had a play on this last February, he said, for example. Right Heidi Nordby Lunde: ‘It’s nice if people can work where they want to live. It must also mean that people can be employed in Nordfjordeid and live in Oslo." Then you can say that there can be some degree of freedom in this which is a point and a value independent of district policy. But when we discuss this in a district policy light, which is the obvious intention of the interpellation, as I have seen, we have to be willing to use this and put leadership in such a way that it really benefits the districts, and that it doesn't become centralizing. I have good faith in that we're going to do, and it's going to be interesting to continue working on this as part of a powerful and strengthened district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1270	With that, the debate on substance is no. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1286	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1293	Norway is a democratic country that reigns at the top of the Economist Democracy Index. There are many reasons for this, but it is absolutely crucial that we are a society of trust and that we have a free and good democratic debate. And if we are to have a free, factual and informed debate, transparency is absolutely essential. Information must be recorded, archived and recorded, and it must be transparent as much as possible. It creates trust in the authorities. The current national audit report is a follow-up to a previous report addressed here three years ago on the same topic. The aim has been to examine the measures taken to improve the practice of archiving, record keeping and transparency in government administration and to assess the status of selected matters related to archiving and reporting in the country. The National Audit Office has concluded that – unfortunately, I have to add – there are still major shortcomings. The National Audit Office points to a number of departments and agencies as a reporter too little and too late. In government administration as a whole, the reporting page has increased since the previous national audit report, although the opposite could have been expected. It is also such that when a document is filed, a name should be given that makes the matter identifiable. People should know what to apply for. And here you can say from the Riksrevision report that there is a good basis for improvement in administration. The National Audit Office has also dealt with four individual cases. These are mentioned both in the report and in the Committee's position. There are important issues, such as the Bergen Engines, the coronary apathy, the acquisition of NH90 helicopter and IMF documents. The National Audit Office believes that the lack of archiving and the lack of record-keeping of documents in these important individual cases weakens the possibility of public debate and democratic transparency and control. This has been achieved by the Riksaudition is highly critical. The Court’s recent recommendations have not been properly followed up, and more could have been done. On the other hand, the National Audit Office commends the Swedish Archives Agency for having developed easily accessible guidance material for archiving and record-keeping and for significantly increasing supervisory activity towards state-owned establishments – and that is good. There is an overall committee that has stood behind the Riksrevision's findings and criticism. The National Audit Office now recommends the identification of new measures, and that the Prime Minister's Office convey the importance of archiving, record keeping and document publishing for public debate, participation and trust in public administration and democratic control. The Committee has supported the recommendations of the National Audit Office, and the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Municipal and District Affairs and the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality have agreed that further work is required. The Committee has also expressed a clear expectation that the Prime Minister's Office will provide political guidance on the need to improve compliance. The Committee has also seen the need to use some space in its decision to stress that there is no possibility of maintaining the treatment of a transparency requirement due to party policy considerations. And let me finally thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1323	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for his thorough work and review. Although there is full consensus in the committee, and some of the post is similar, it is natural to make a few brief comments. I have to say that it is surprising that in a follow-up report like this, it has to be stated by the Riksrevision that a number of departments and underlying bodies are still keeping records too little late. The National Audit Office also points out that too many cases do not have clear titles in the mailing lists, and therefore it is demanding to find out. This must necessarily be a challenging result for the Councils of State in the departments mentioned. The right agrees with the National Audit Office, which considers such a lack of record-keeping and poor record-keeping of documents in key individual cases to be detrimental to public debate, democratic transparency and control. This has to be corrected. In the process of making transparency easier, there was an important grip by the government of Solberg when they introduced e-transparency in 2018. This was a new and better transparency solution. It also provided for coordination of the State and municipal sectors, making it easier for citizens, journalists, businesses and others to follow the decisions that concern and interest them. However, the transparency solution is completely dependent on good practice and follow-up by document handlers. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Local and Modernisation, the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Culture identify new measures that can improve compliance with the legislation – which exists – as regards both the archiving of archival documents, how they are recorded and visible in public postal records, and how legal rules are practised in state administration. This is a good recommendation, and I hope we have the same goal that, if the Riksaudition were to make a new follow-up, it would show that everything is in charge in both departments and underlying agencies. In this way we can gain control and confidence that Norway is managed in a clean and good way!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1336	I would like to start by thanking the case spokesman and the committee for good cooperation. This matter concerns the right of access to administrative documents. Later today, we will deal with the Stortinget's right of access to administrative documents. The administration has added a practice to handle documents that are not in line with any public or archive laws. The policy is so far from the legal requirement that the Riksrevision decided to create a new report rather than follow up on the matter in the ordinary reporting. A joint committee is behind the criticism and recommendations of the report. This means that the departments have to reconsider how they work with archiving and reporting; they cannot reject the commitment to new actions when they themselves do not have procedures that are in line with the laws. They cannot refer to the individual department's responsibilities when it's late and inadequate reporting across the department areas. I would particularly like to draw up the recommendation from the National Audit Office of the Prime Minister. The National Audit Service advises the Prime Minister to communicate to the Departments and Governments the importance of archiving, journaling and document publishing for public debate, co-determination, trust in public administration and democratic control. Seeing that practice is in line with the law is about what values the rental represents. For this reason, we emphasise in the setting that party policy considerations do not justify postponing the management of transparency requirements. The scope of public law is to strengthen the freedom of information and expression, democratic participation, the legal security of the individual, the confidence of the public and the control of the elderly. These values shall be at the bottom of the management's management, archiving and record-keeping of documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1349	In this case, there is a broad consensus in the committee, and we agree with what the Riksrevision has come along with. But I think, like the representative Harberg, that it is necessary to say a few words anyway, because it must be emphasised how discouraging it is that a follow-up report of this kind ends up finding – at least it is the leftover impression – that disappointing little has happened in several departments and underlying agencies. I want to say that this is a kind of ‘greatest hit’ in Stortingen’s control work, it comes over and over again, and it’s very difficult to understand it any other way than that more departments and underlying agencies simply don’t take this work seriously, because of course it’s possible to make good practice. The things that have come up here are things that have also been discussed over and over again over the years: the reporting of too little, too late and the lack of clear titles in the mailing lists, which, of course, means that it is far more difficult for those who want to extract information to know where to look. It puts a direct damper on the possibility of transparency and thus for political debate on important issues. I also think it is a point to specifically mention the timing of reporting and publication, because the disclosure law is also very clear and cannot be understood there that there is room to take what we call ‘tactical considerations’ linked to when something is being reported or published, for example. as has been pointed out here in connection with the Bergen Engines case, that documents are only recorded after the case has been settled, documents which would be useful, inter alia. for the Grand Duchy, to have insight during the process — or, as in the case of former Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner, to the effect that there is at least doubt and fear that a person will remain on a tactical basis on the basis of purely political motivation. Then it's necessary to establish, and I'm glad that there's a broad consensus between all the parties, that there's simply no room for that. It's going to be a new follow-up of this. It must be allowed to expect that this round will lead to a tightening of procedures, so that we can finally see improvement in those departments and departments that are still struggling to deal with some very fundamental demands of public access and transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1358	A society without free press is a society I don't want to live in. Fortunately, there is one of the least controversial things I could have said in Norway, and I think we all agree on that. But in order for the press to be free, it must have real opportunity to look at the rulers in the cards. Otherwise we'll get a public change of words that has to take a big arc around decisions that characterize our lives. In order for us to be able to call ourselves a state governed by law, ordinary citizens must be able to have access to public documents relating to themselves. The administration has an obligation to facilitate public transparency and debate, following inter alia: the law of the public and the law of the archives. The postal records shall be kept continuously, without undue delay, as has been stated by the interlocutor several times now. They shall also be kept in such a way that relevant documents can be identified afterwards. The national audit concludes that the administration has failed a great deal. In fact, the report goes so far as to say that the requirement for continuous reporting is essentially not met. This should upset all those who care about public access and control. The law also requires that, if a document cannot be published, it be relied upon and justified. Pre-receipts, that is to say that documents are not transparent until someone has asked for them, should not occur in the rule. Nevertheless, the Riksrevision states that this is becoming more and more common in the administration. It's critical. Look at the Bergen Engines case, a case that shows what's really at stake. There, Bergen’s Official Journal revealed that Russian investors were buying up a strategic Norwegian defence provider. The press did a pattern work to reveal an important matter, but at each crossroad it was countered by the lack of archiving and record keeping. The Court of Auditors points out, inter alia: that the Ministry of Justice placed most of the correspondence in a secret archive, including documents that were neither classified nor protected for transparency. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on its side, introduced bad titles and hid central correspondence within other documents, so that it did not appear when you applied for the mail. I can only sign on the recommendation of the National Audit Office and a joint committee that this must be cleared up quickly. For, as the Riksaudition concludes, today’s practice weakens the possibilities for public debate and democratic transparency. It's my first period as a magnification representative, so I haven't been on this 'hit' several times, and I hope that this will be my first and last time where we see so many deficiencies and so much criticism. Next time, we can hopefully say that we're getting further.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1375	The National Audit Board has followed document 3:10 for 2016–2017, where it has, among other things. the lack of record-keeping in several departments and directorates was demonstrated. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee concluded at the time that this could contribute to weakening public awareness of matters and the possibilities for debate and control of management. The government attaches great importance to transparency and control of the management's activities. This is one of the pillars of our democracy and forms the basis for the trust-based society we have, and we're going to develop further. We all want an administration of transparency culture and participation. Responsibility for maintaining such a culture lies with all those who function in government, not least political leadership. I would like to take this on board and take responsibility for it. I'm not going to hide that it's with some disappointment I'm reading the results that come out of the Riksrevision report and are commented on by the Committee. I see that there is a positive development for the average reporting time for the departments, but also that there is still a way to ensure better compliance with the legislation for the administration as a whole. I therefore agree that it is necessary to better practise the legislation on archiving and record-keeping. This applies both at ministerial level and in central government. When the previous report of the Riksrevisions was examined by Stortinget in 2018, the Council of State then pointed out that it is the individual department that has a separate responsibility to comply with the requirements for archiving, record-keeping and the processing of transparency requirements. I would also like to stress that principle. The Ministry of Local and District Affairs has a role that drives and facilitates the openness and trust of the administration in the population. The Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality is responsible for the Archives Act, while the Ministry of Justice and Defence is responsible for the Public Service Act. Nevertheless, it is the case that each department and each sector and activity has a separate responsibility for complying with the relevant legislation. I note that the Committee shares the Riksrevision's view that the efforts made by the Swedish Archives Agency, on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality, to develop easily accessible guidance material for archiving and reporting, are positive. The same applies to the significantly increased supervisory activity vis-à-vis State activities. The e-translation solution, operated by the Digitalisation Directorate, allows document searching in public documents and correspondence to and from public agencies. I would also like to mention the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which has implemented several measures to improve compliance with the Public and Public Code in the light of the criticism raised by the National Audit Office in 2017. I would like to emphasise that performance requirements have now been put in place for senior executives in the Ministry of Local Affairs and in the Ministry of Local Affairs sector to actively support compliance with the law on record-keeping and archiving. This shall contribute to the adequacy of staff competence in the field of record-keeping and record-keeping, in order to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation. This shall be done through the training and development of good practice. I note that the Committee expects the departments responsible to assess new measures in this area. I would therefore like to work with the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality and the Minister for Justice and Preparedness to look at measures to improve the enforcement of the legislation. The government takes the Riksrevision's findings seriously. I want to keep up with the other state councils monitoring developments and continuously assess how the practice of law and regulation can be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1396	No one's ever asked for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1403	I would like to take this opportunity to say something about the final point made by the Committee. Not long after last year's elections, the media said that former Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner allegedly delayed the transparency of a document by giving the following notice to his office: "We're not supposed to get this in a tough election call. The e-mails are therefore not sent before the deadline. I'm thinking late Thursday." For the Control and Constitutional Committee, it was then natural to look at this, even though Jan Tore Sanner had left. The Committee therefore sent questions to the current Minister of Finance with questions on the matter, but the answers we have received have neither confirmed nor confirmed whether such a message was given. The central thing in this matter now is how the disclosure law is to understand. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to send a signal on the general basis that electoral campaign and other party policy considerations do not justify the treatment of a transparency requirement. So you can't wait to send out documents because they're going to come out in the middle of a tough election call. On the contrary, such action will conflict directly with the objective of the Public Health Act to strengthen freedom of information and expression and democratic participation. I hope this is a clear signal from the Stortinget that we will not see cases where party political considerations have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1419	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1437	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1444	The representatives of the Progress Party propose in Document 8:7 that the Stortinget should request the responsibilities of the Stortinget Commission to carry out the necessary investigations and to recommend that proceedings should be brought against the former Council of State Knut Arild Hareide for breach of the Liability Act §8(b). The proposal is justified by Hareide's work on the follow-up to the decision of the Stortinget in February 2021, which stated: ‘The government asks the Government to remove the requirement for compulsory old age health certificates as a basis for driving licences’; and the subsequent decision of the Storting in May 2021 which read: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to implement the Storting decision to repeal the health certificate for older drivers with effect from 1 August 2021 at the latest.’ The proposers believe that Hareide, through its lack of follow-up to the Storting decision, has violated the Liability Act and that this should qualify for criminal prosecution. The majority of the Committee's voting rights are composed of all members of the Committee, except the member of the Progress Party, and I believe that the Progress Party itself justifies its views and proposals in the matter. The majority say that Hareide, in his communication in the matter, clearly expressed great scepticism at the decision of the Storting. When a new decision was taken on the increase, there was a communication of no professional basis for follow-up and that the deadline was too short. The majority also note that the Council of State communicated to the media that he intended to abandon the proposal, while the Stortinge in the draft budget for 2022 was informed that further work was to be done on it. The majority in the Committee find this form of communication critical. However, this case does not concern the content of the decision, but whether the Hareide's opinions and the lack of progress in the follow-up qualify to request the Enlarged Bureau of the United Kingdom to investigate and recommend to the Storting that proceedings be brought against the former Council of State Hareide for infringement of the Liability Act. The usual form of reaction in such a case will be to criticise the Council of State and, where appropriate, to adopt a distrust of the Council of State in the United Kingdom. Because of the change of government, this parliamentary reaction was not possible. I am not going to go into a long discussion about the legal status of the request decisions, but I would like to justify the conclusion of the majority in the case, and then we have to go to the first paragraph of Section 44 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, which reads: ‘In the case of a decision requiring the agreement of one third of the representatives, the Stortinget may request the responsibilities of the Stortinget Commission to initiate investigations in order to clarify whether there is a basis for bringing an action for national law under the Basic Law § 86, cf. Law of 5 February 1932 No. 2 on the procedure of national courts Chapter 3.» And then the important thing is: ‘This shall not apply, however, if the Grand total decides in the same case that it shall or shall not be brought against the person(s) to whom the investigation will be addressed for the matters covered by the request.’;» The consequence of this provision is that the minority’s access to the request of the Liability Commission to initiate investigations has to be reserved for the majority’s right to refer the matter to the Court of Justice. Following an overall assessment, the majority considers that no request should be made to the Liability Commission to consider the matter. The majority make the following proposals: ‘An action is not brought against Knut Arild Hareide in order to fail to implement Decision No 1013 of 27 May 2021.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1485	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough review. I'll just do a few short additions. I agree with the majority that criticises that the Council of State has stated in the media that he will not remove the requirement for a health certificate, when he simultaneously told the Stortinget that he was working on the matter. Now the task of the Department is to return to Stortinget with a case on how to revoke and enforce health certificates for older drivers. The call is attached to the Storting and is due both before and after the government change. If the department does not wish to follow up, they shall extend the proposal to repeal the decision. The liability law provides for criminal liability for the state councils for serious constitutional offences which should clearly be punishable. In this case, no law has been broken by the State Council since the Stortinget is still waiting for a follow-up from the Ministry. There is no basis for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1494	This matter is not about lifting the requirement of a health certificate for older drivers as such. There are good arguments both for and against the health certificate requirement. A few years ago, I got into it a little bit when I was informed about the theoretical tests, so I got them from my doctor, looked at them, and I have to admit that some of them could be difficult, especially given that some people who are going to take that test might not have taken a theoretical test of 40, 50 or maybe 60 years. Even I was so unhappy that I had to take such a theoretical test at the hospital because of some illness for a while back – or it wasn't a test, it was just a test. When I stood there and had a doctor hanging over me, I must say that I was also stressed during such a test. The case as such is not about Hareide as a person, but about whether a government council can ignore clear decisions in the Storting, in this case not only once, but twice. This is a matter of principle which Carl I. Unfortunately, Hagen could not take for himself, which he had seen especially in principle. In February 2021, the Commission adopted a decision which reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to remove the requirement for a mandatory old age health certificate as a basis for driving licences.’ Due to the non-implementation of the Decision, the Stortinget re-adopted a decision on 27 May 2021, which reads: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to implement the Storting decision to repeal the health certificate for older drivers with effect from 1 August 2021 at the latest.’ The Hareide Council made it quite clear to the Storting that he disagreed with the political content of the proposal. He was opposed to removing the mandatory health requirement of the regulation. It is an honest matter, but when the Storting not only once, but twice, takes clear, concrete decisions, a government council is obliged to implement the decision. It results from both the parliamentary and the legal systems we have in Norway. If a government can ignore a clear and consistent decision in the Stortinget, it is no longer the Storing that is the supreme decision-making body, but it is a system in which the government is in practice the head of the National Assembly, the Storinget. That's not how it should be. Due to the election results of the election in 2021, it was not possible to use the ordinary parliamentary governance system, as the Hareide Council had to leave. The legal system applicable to members of the Government, the Grand Duchy and the Supreme Court is governed by the Liability Act of 5 February 1932. In that case, it is appropriate to refer to Chapter 2. Specific provisions on criminal liability for members of the Government and the Stortinget. The relevant paragraph, § 8, reads as follows: ‘With a fine or imprisonment of up to 5 years, a member of the Government who, by act or omission, causes [...] b. a decision by the Storting is not reimplemented [...]’;» As the Progress Party sees it, it is relatively clear that the former Council of State Hareide has, in the event of a clear omission, breached the provisions of this paragraph by failing to implement the decision of the Stortinge in Decision 596 for 2020-2021 and, in particular, Decision 1013 for that year, which read: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the Storting decision to repeal the health certificate for older drivers with effect from 1 August at the latest.’ Now I read it twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1534	It's just before speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1539	I'm sorry. In this context, reference is also made to the next issue to be debated today, on the current report from the sample to investigate the control function of the Stortinge, among others. Chapter 4 on the decision-making of requests. [[The President clubs.]] With that, I will address the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1544	The representative Lars Rem has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1563	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1570	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its work on this matter. It is important for Stortinget to carry out its control work that a Joint Committee is behind the main lines of the framework for the control of government and administration by the Stortinget. There is a large cross-political settlement behind the way the control is to be exercised. A Joint Committee emphasises that control of the exercise of power is one of the three main tasks of the Storting. Control is of central, constitutional and political value. The control of the capital by government and administration is a democratic guarantee to secure the popular influence and the position of the elected government against government and government. That's how the Storting has its control business in the heart of a living government. Many have changed both in society and in the media since the control task of the Stortinget was laid down in the Constitution of 1814. An increasingly tiring media everyday can make it tempting for both political parties and for the individual representative to use the control function to position himself. I would therefore like to point out that the Committee has agreed that a central task of the Grand Duchy as an institution is to shape and use the Institute of Control in a way that is most likely to hold the government responsible for following the decision of the Grand Duchy. It is on behalf of the Stortinget that elected bodies we exercise control – not on behalf of ourselves as single representatives. The core of Stortinget's own control business is the responsibility of the government or the individual state council. The size should focus on weaknesses or problem settings in the follow-up to the government’s decision-making process or on issues that may have a bearing on important societal interests. This control mandate is the source of a special character in the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee compared to the other permanent committees in the Stortinget. For this purpose, pure party political activity shall be disregarded in the handling of control matters. In the light of this control mandate, we need to see the part of the setting that has created the most public debate. According to Grundlova § 75 f, the size has the right to have the records presented by the Council of State and all public messages and paper. This right of access is available to exercise control. From the administration it has been claimed that the transparency of control cases has been unclear from the Stortinget's side. We have not found that the Storting has been unclear. A joint committee supports the Harberg selection, which continues to understand the Frøiland selection of Grundlova § 75 f. The range of the right of access to control matters of the Storting applies to all public documents. This applies to the original understanding of public documents by Grundlova as opposed to private documents. The purpose of this wording is to prevent the limitation of the right of access by the Storting. By decision of the General Court, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg may impose on the Government a constitutional obligation to supply any document in the government or in the hands of the underlying administrator. It also applies to the administration of its documents, which are internal to public law, and to government internal documents. The copyright of the Storting according to Grundlova § 75 f does not imply that internal documents sent by the government to Stortinget become public. These are documents Size is useful for control. The size manages such documents according to the rules and procedures for classified and non-compulsory information. The Committee would like to point out that the Storting should be cautious in asking for transparency in documents containing discussions which are part of the College of Government's internal preparations. There should be a high threshold for the disclosure of such a document. This setting discusses this constitutional status of the Government's decision to call upon the Government. A majority of the Committee supports the Harberg Committee's view that appeal decisions are parliamentary instructions that the government is obliged to follow up, and that appeal decisions are not legally binding when the Storting handling the Frøiland Committee in 2003. There is a clear expectation that the government will meet the demands of the majority in Stortinget. The size controls the government's follow-up of the call-up decision in retrospect. Each year, the government sends a message on the follow-up to the invitation and the handling of proposals for representatives agreed to be sent to the government for distribution and pronunciation. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee shall be responsible for the receipt of the call for proposals by the handling of this call for proposals. We've all been dealing with the control and constitution committee's attitude to this big message from in the fall. This from your Harberg selection meant that the time of handing over the annual message to Stortinget should be changed in order to avoid duplication of work. That's how the Harberg selection has already affected the way we work. An area the Committee discussed specifically in the configuration is the management of constitutional proposals. The management of draft constitutions today does not have the necessary clearance requirements. It builds on the fact that the voters familiarize themselves with the suggestions and decide on them. The Committee therefore makes the following proposals: ‘The Council asks the Presidency to put down a selection to look at all the circumstances surrounding the presentation and handling of constitutional proposals in order to ensure publication and public debate, thorough handling and necessary disbursement before the proposals are taken up for final consideration.’ I hope the room sees the benefits of this and recommends this setting on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1603	Johan Sverdrup's contributions to the state council on 8 March 1872 are best known for expressing that all power should lie in this room. It is appropriate to present this today. Through the committee reading of this part of the Harberg Committee, it is now emphatically stated by the Stortinget that the Stortinget in plenary has the right to ask for any document from the government. It is the controller who must define what is needed to carry out controls. The big thing about controlling the executive is one of the three main tasks we have as a magnificence. The question of transparency and the control function of the Storting has been debated over the years. The Constitution § 75 f gives the Stortinget the opportunity to take decisions on the transparency of administrative documents. In the committee proceedings it appears that the Constitution § 75 f gives the Stortinget the right to have the minutes presented by the Council of State and all public communications and papers. This is also mentioned in Section 50 of the Grand Duchy’s Rules of Procedure, which states that under the Basic Law § 75 f ‘any document held by the government or the underlying administration which has been prepared or obtained as part of a public activity’ may apply. The Harberg Committee thus continues the understanding of the Constitution § 75 f. What is different today is that there is a unanimous committee and therefore a unanimous enlargement that means this. The power demands responsibility, and it is important to stress that this right is reserved by the plenary decision of the Stortinget. If the Stortinget is given insight, this does not mean that the documents become public. It is also important to stress that caution should be exercised in asking for access to documents such as r-notes, which are part of the internal work of the government college. It's only in cases where extraordinary relationships lie at the root, where we have issues where there's a knowledge that there's been very critical things. There are very few historical issues where this has happened, and it will most likely belong to the rareness of the future too, but it is the principle that is established here today. The majority quote Jørgen Kosmos in the debate on the Inn. S No 210 for 2002–2003, where he stated: ‘[...] this is to make a difficult debate on something that is probably never going to happen, unless the majority of the Storting feel that there is legitimate suspicion that a government council has made serious mistakes that should lead to further persecution, for example. through national law.’.» It also discusses the place of the request decision. All members of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, agree to the understanding of the role and place of the parliamentary work of the request decisions. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Harberg Committee for the job it has done in investigating the control function of Stortingen. It is a good and important job the selection has done, which makes it clear the roles, tasks and principles. In examining this part, the Stortinget has now completed the examination of the Harberg Committee report.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1627	This has been a setting with many interesting fundamental debates. I just thought I would add some extra comments to the one that has been most controversial, both in the committee and in the public at large, and this is with transparency in the state documents, or as the Basic Law § 75 f says: «all public reports and papers». The crucial thing for our part is how this is to be interpreted and practiced by Stortinget. There has been a public discussion about whether this issue can be called unexplained, whether it can be called debated, or whether it has really been resolved all along. No matter what you call it, I think we should be careful to say that there has been considerable political doubt about how this practice should be. There have been legal theorists, big names, who, far back in time, thought it was totally inappropriate for the Storting to get access to these documents. Then the legal theories have evolved over the years and now the country is quite certain, namely that the Constitution should be interpreted in such a way that the Storting has this right of transparency. That's what we're going to end up with today. The size may be requested in plenary — it is important to underline it: in plenary — to provide transparency in the relevant documents. But the fact that the Storting in plenary can do that doesn't automatically mean that you should do it. I think you should think quite carefully about what this power can be used for, and not least what it can be abused for. If someone thinks that just getting the most insight into what one's political opponents think and discuss and discuss at all times, it gives a good democracy, I'm not so sure. I believe that a good democracy also depends on the political opposition having confidential internal discussions – and also the government. It is also about effective governance of the nation. So, of course, if you are suspected that something serious has happened, or that there has been serious abuse of power, the Storting should of course have its control functions in place. But I also think we should be aware that there is a responsibility on the Stortinget not to let this become a slip, and that this authority, which we now say we have, is being used with great caution. If it's abused, I think we'll see that governments potentially go off or ask cabinet questions, for basically it's a major intervention in the government's internal life. The representative Jaffery has already mentioned Sverdrup – there we have one legend. She has also mentioned another legend, Jørgen Kosmo, who not only had epic dresses and was a fantastic politician in many ways, but he was also excellent in formulating where the threshold should lie in this matter. I'm not going to repeat what Jaffery reads, but that quote I think can serve as a good explanation of how the practice and interpretation should be, by stressing that we're completely at national law before this becomes relevant. It says a little bit about the threshold.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1640	As a follow-up to the previous case, I would like to explain the views of the Progress Party on the status of the request decision. The Norwegian governance system consists of two different systems: parliamentary and legal. The parliamentary system is simple, since the Storting may, at any time and with any justification, adopt mistrust of a Council of State or of the whole Government, in which case the Council of State or the Government is obliged to resign under the Constitution § 15. The legal system is based on the same principle as the ordinary legal system, where no one can be judged without a legal process, where the claim must be a violation of a law. In this context, the Liability Act of 5 February 1932 applies. The relevant paragraph of Section 8 of the Liability Act states: ‘With a fine or imprisonment of up to 5 years, a member of the Government who, by act or omission, causes, e.g., a decision by the Grand Duchy not to be reimplemented’. [[...]] However, it has been disputed whether or not requests are covered by the provision. The reason for this is that requests are often vague and unclear and that financial resources are often needed to implement them. In the past, there was a clear perception that the request decisions were also included. I'm referencing here to Innst. S. No 277 for 1976-1977 by the Foreign and Constitutional Committee on the control of the administration of the Storting. This setting was based on Doc. No 7 for 1972-73 from the sample which carried out the parliamentary inquiry under the Kings Bay case. In the Committee's observations on Chapter 3, point 3.2, the following sentence is added: ‘The development must be said to have confirmed that the Government is legally obliged to comply with the provisions of the Stortinget.’ This is reinforced by the representatives of Gustavsen and Ås as ‘would point out that the Storting can not only make recommendations to the Government in those cases but can also, to a large extent, give binding instructions on how to exercise its powers by the Government. Andenæs, State Administration in Norway [[in legislative form]] [[(4th edition) 1976 page 276]] The Committee also states that it is: ‘in agreement with the Committee that the plenary decision must remain in force until further notice if the decision does not contain a time limit. This must at least apply without exception to plenary decisions which are legally binding on the administration.’;» As the Party sees it, there must also be crystal-clear request decisions with time-limits for their implementation to be governed by the Liability Act. This means that Decisions 1013 of 27 May 2021 and 596 of 9 February 2021 of the previous case remain applicable to the current government. It should also be close to believing that former government council Knut Arild Hareide has violated the Liability Act § 8(b) cf. Inner. 140 S for 2021-2022. With that, I am promoting the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1674	The representative Lars Rem then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1679	I will be brief, because I can essentially join in what the case-rapporteur has said. But at one small point in the setting, the committee is not unanimous, and this is precisely the quote from Jørgen Kosmo attached to the threshold to ask for the delivery of r-notes. SV fully agrees that that threshold should be very high. It's about the confidentiality and the possibility of having real discussion within a government college. Normally, therefore, Stortinget should not ask for it to be delivered. But we think it's above the square to point to national law as the level of possibly asking for the delivery of that kind of notes. We don't think it's wise to hit it in such a concrete way. It is also the case that there are disagreements between government and magnification, and perhaps also between parties on the Storting, relating to the type of internal documents that it is reasonable to expect to be delivered. A good example of this is the ongoing discussion, which was a controversial issue in the previous period, which concerns the report of the inter-ministerial working group on social security exports. It is a document that might have shed decisive light on aspects of the Nav scandal that could have directly affected, among other things. the possibility of compensation for victims of the scandal. That is a good example, we believe, of a matter in which it is natural to ask for the delivery of internal documents that would normally not require transparency. I would also like to make a brief comment on this with the request decisions. The SV agrees with the majority of the Committee that we should not make them legally binding, but it is important to stress what the majority writes about the request decision, namely that they are to be regarded as a parliamentary instruction – that is, not, we should say, a polite input, but a parliamentary instruction – and that they are binding on the government in the sense that they should be followed up. As the Committee's comment states, we have ‘a clear expectation that the government will meet the demands of the majority of the Stortinge.’» It's simple, and I stress it because, most recently, the last review that the Committee had of the request decisions showed that too often they are not followed up in a satisfactory manner. Therefore, understanding the status of these decisions is important and their follow-up is a matter of whether the government actually follows direct and clear parliamentary instructions. And the government will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1701	Today, we are clarifying broad, overall principles that will lead us the people-elected control of executive power. In a parliamentary system like ours, such clarifications are healthy. The Government shall withdraw from the Grand Duchy and the Grand Duchy shall hold the Government responsible for following up the decision of the majority. That's actually the prerequisite for us to live in democracy every single day, not just when it's elections. But you can't control without transparency. That is why I am pleased that a joint committee supports the Harberg Committee in that Stortinget's right of access also includes internal government documents. The Committee points out that the Stortinget may, under the Constitution § 75 f, require the government to deliver any document it or the rest of the administration has, and that the Constitution here precedes any other law. It was tried to doubt it when the previous government in its supervisor, ‘The Government’s Relationship with the Stortinget’, referred to this right as undecided. Today we can certainly regard it as thoroughly clarified, and I expect the Prime Minister's office to update the supervisor if they have not already done so. I note that the majority of the Committee in its comments writes about a sort of insurmountable threshold for the Storting to ask for transparency in government notes and preparations for government. Here I want to point out two things. Firstly, Skating Governments have called a number of documents that are not government notes, and are not linked to government conferences, for internal, last Nav report on the export of welfare benefits, which we have asked to be submitted to the Stortinget. Secondly, even if you were to rarely avail yourself of a right, that doesn't mean that the right is worthless. On the day that the majority of people in this room need transparency in a government document, we and the government both know that we're going to get it, and that in itself strengthens the people's rule. I would like to highlight a point in which the Committee has unanimously clarified the principle of how the Riksrevision should treat classified information. The National Audit Office is, as we know, an important tool for controlling the administration, including the government. The paradox is that at the same time, the government owns the information it provides to the Riksrevision. If, for example, the government: decides that information should be kept secret, the Riksrevision cannot publish that information, and we must not debate it openly. One thing is classified information, something quite different about the Riksrevision then seems to have to keep a whole report secret. In the previous magnification period, we saw it demonstrated in practice. The National Audit Office's report on the operational capabilities of fighter aircraft is today classified as secret, after the Ministry of Defence classified information on which it is based. The matter was dealt with behind closed doors here at Stortinget. Thus, we were deprived of an open debate on Norway’s capacity to defend itself and on the role of the Ministry of Defence. In the context of the Rødt proposal to publish parts of the fighter aircraft report, Stortinget agreed that the Harberg Committee should make proposals that would allow public transparency and debate around the Riksrevision studies. This was done by the sample in Chapter 3. I am pleased that the entire Committee today is united on the evaluations of the sample and emphasises that, in so far as a report cannot be published in its entirety, the Riksrevision shall draw up a version without classified information which is otherwise as complete as possible. We thus state that the administration as an information society has a responsibility to facilitate free and open debate. Finally, I would like to thank the Harberg Committee for its solid work and the case rapporteur for the good work it has done on this matter. With the two rounds we've had on the Storting, I believe that we've made clear important democratic principles, which have been largely backed by an overall committee, a total mass. It's very valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1722	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1740	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1748	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter, and then I would like to express my support for point one of the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Development and Cooperation. On the right is the party in Norwegian political history that first put nature protection and natural values on the political agenda, and we have contributed to important measures such as the establishment of national parks and the protection of watercourses. We also see a major challenge in preserving natural diversity in the future. At the same time, we are a party that wants to develop policy in line with developments in the world. We know that floods are an increasing problem in many watercourses in Norway, and climate change is going to make floods even stronger in the years to come, due to extreme rainfall. We also know that if we don't take new action, we're going to approach a power deficit, potentially, from 2026 onwards. In order to maintain a surplus of power and thus also lower electricity prices and get new green industry raised, we need to produce more renewable energy, and then we have two possibilities: it is either to produce more hydropower or to produce wind power on land by 2030. After 2030 we will be helped by wind power at sea. We have accumulated knowledge through many expansions of hydropower that enables us to develop today in a way that preserves natural values such as salmon, landscapes and natural diversity. The values that protection is intended to preserve can be maintained by new methods of expansion. We also know that some of the best salmon rivers in Norway are in watercourses where it is built-in power. These are major local effects. There is also a great deal of upsurge in local democracy to assess new watercourses, among other things. Weave in my own county, Nordland. I look forward to the debate. I think we're going to hear a lot of parties that don't want to do anything powerful to keep the power surplus to get us through the green transition, and that won't do enough to get the green industry up and down.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1763	In a situation of great concern for both energy prices and increased energy needs in Norway, it is very important that the Hurdal platform determines that no new foreignables should be built and that the planned expansions of sea winds in the South North Seas and the Utsira Nord should be built without hybrid cables. It is important to give priority to the Norwegian clean power that can go to households in Norway at predictable prices, and that we can use our power for industrial workplaces near natural resources. It's better that we use the power to export green products than to build down Norwegian nature to export electricity in a way that makes prices unnaturally high, in a society where electricity is a fundamental factor. We need to further refine our power. Nature in many Norwegian waterways is diverse, unique and important to preserve. An example is Wefsna in Northern Ireland. The tissue is a protected watercourse and a national salmon stream that flows into a national salmon fjord. Tissues are nature, experience and nutrition. Weaving is important in order to preserve the wild species that we in Norway have a special responsibility to take care of. When some people now want to expand hydropower in Wefsna because we need more power, it sounds unmusical to many people's ears. We in the Centre Party are pleased that the Energy Commission, which is to monitor energy needs and propose increased energy production, is working. The mandate of the new Energy Commission provides for the protection of watercourses against power build-up. The size has also determined that the protection structure of the watercourse should be essentially fixed. Further power deployment can only be assessed in cases where flood suppression is the purpose. We are pleased that the Hurdal platform is clear that a comprehensive plan will be drawn up for Norwegian hydropower, wind power, solar power and other energy and infrastructure expansions that require concession. It is also important to increase Norwegian hydropower production, among others. by facilitating better maintenance, upgrade and renewal of existing hydropower plants. We need more and more energy, including in the form of bioenergy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1774	We talk a lot about conversion in this room, about a everyday life to be changed in many areas, about jobs to be replaced, and about a climate pressure to be reduced. If some ask questions about the measures to be taken to implement migration, to implement reduced emissions in Norway, there is almost one response that goes on and that is to electrify. What can be electrified, it should be electrified. So there's a debate out there on electrification, but unfortunately, the debate is solely on more use of force, not on where this force is going to come from. We have a surplus of power today, but this is going to be less for every year that goes, and when we see all the plans ahead that involve an increased need for force, then this simply cannot be implemented. And when one sees how vulnerable we are, through the recent months of price rise, I had hoped that several people would have taken on board that we need a review of many areas, of many sectors, of many technologies, to find out what opportunities there are for the power situation out there. All forms of energy have some impact on the environment around us, but this proposal is not a proposal to destroy Norwegian nature. The proposal for the Progress Party that we are dealing with today is very easy to rely on our power company. We are not asking for a change in today's concession regime, but only for an exception that one can apply for expansions in sheltered watercourses where these companies themselves see the benefits of society as greater than natural and environmental interventions. Then these applications are to be processed in a very common way. This has to be opposed, but then one has to be very clear that if one wants power in the future, one has to say where it's going to come from. Either that, or one has to say that one accepts that our power will be more expensive, or that all the new jobs to be established based on the availability of power will be absent. We have communities that are fighting for new creations, to create values and jobs, but that are being established solely because of access to power. And how does one see these establishments being realized as prices rise, and as the power surplus disappears, whether it be data storage, battery factories – not to forget the electrification of the base – just for mentioning anything? There are few critical voices to such an establishment. We have had discussions about the establishment of foreign tables, and many have been sincerely concerned that such an establishment will increase prices, which may weaken Norwegian competitiveness. It is then that increased consumption of power without new expansion will challenge the mainland industry. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1791	Then the representative Terje Halleland addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1796	The fight for rivers has been central to Norwegian history of nature protection. Already in 1909, the botanist and local politician of the Right, Johan Nordal Fischer Wille, took up the enormous challenges we faced by putting several of our beautiful feet into a pipe. His lectures were an inspiration for many to the establishment of Norway's first nature protection organisation, the organisation we know today as the Norwegian Nature Conservation Association. In addition to the 1950s and 1960s we saw a hard-handed expansion of our watercourses, which also led to the first civil disobedience actions in the nature protection struggle; the Mardøla action in 1970. Later we got actions against the development of both the Orkla/Grana watercourse and the Alta-Kautokeino watercourse. Although the rivers I mention here were being built out, these battles were not in vain. They gave us protection plans for watercourses, and today we have protected nearly 400 watercourses from power development. I'm going to do something I don't do too often from this pulpit, because I'm going to quote both a government council from the Progress Party and a big representative from the Progress Party – not to chat with their statements, but to boast about them. I believe that today's representatives from the Progress Party, as comrade Halleland, have something to learn from their colleagues. The opinions I am going to refer to fell under two debates on the last eleven we have been protected, namely the East Pacific. Former State Council of the Progressive Party, Terje Søviknes, said in the Stortinget on 19 April 2018: ‘I look forward to returning to Stortinget with a proposition as soon as possible related to the protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse, and would like to take part in both coffee and cakes from the representative Lars Haltbrecken when we have to be in the finish.’ On the day we protected the Baltic Sea watercourse in Stortinget, Gise Meininger Saudland of the Advance Party said very well, but what I want to quote is the following: «I know that there are many who are following this debate now, both from the gallery here and also from home or from the office, who are engaged, and to them I have the following to say: Congratulations with the day and well blown!» Fortunately, the proposals of the Progress Party are not being adopted today, but I have to say I am concerned – concerned about the dramatic change in the attitude towards the protection of nature that has come in such a short time in the Progress Party. I guess I could also say the same thing about the Right. With that, I'll take up the proposal SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1819	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1824	We are in the midst of a natural crisis, species disappear at a raging pace, and most terrestrial ecosystems have changed significantly as a result of human activity. We also know that the degradation of nature helps to reinforce the consequences of the climate crisis. Partly and divided expansion and degradation are almost always at the expense of nature. It is as Einar Gerhardsen in his day said: As long as the struggle is about the single watercourse, there can always be so many arguments and so much political pressure that the development vision prevails. In order to avoid a development where Norway’s unique nature is eaten up piece by piece, it was necessary to have an overall plan of protection. That is exactly why the protection plans for watercourses are so necessary. Since the 1960s, we have been able to protect nearly 400 watercourses – to which the representative Haltbrecken also referred – and together they provide a variety of protection values and watercourse types. We have managed to secure these against new interventions. It is not that it has not cost to build watercourses, and that Norway has not built watercourses, because we have. It's been a good thing for many, because we've become close to self-sufficient in renewable energy, and we're supposed to be proud of that and take care of it, but of course it's had a price, which has led to great natural interventions. That's exactly why it's necessary for us to fence around the rest. The beautiful watercourses are a place for great natural experiences, but also for a number of species. 325 species live in fresh water in Norway and are on the red list. New species have been added to that list, for example: the wild axis. Watercourses are important from the protection point of view and these species are still under threat. In the last few months, however, the debate on opening several watercourses for intervention has emerged again, removing and watering out the protection status has again been addressed. Once again, nature draws the shortest straw when there is much else to do, and that happens before we have done so much more: energy efficiency improvement, all of which seems to be agreed; solar power setting on existing buildings, which are not so conflicty; or upgrading and modernisation of existing hydropower plants, which will also give us considerable increase in TWh. We can do a lot without raging more nature and without intensifying the natural crisis. Instead, some politicians point to the path of least resistance. I am glad that the Energy Commission states that we should not change the protection we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1835	We have big tasks ahead of us if we are to end with fossil fuels, cut greenhouse gas emissions, stop pollution and take care of more nature – more nature. In those tasks it is completely wrong to open up hydropower expansion in the sheltered watercourses. The protected watercourses in Norway have already been through a long and comprehensive assessment and process through four protection plans – the first from 1973 – and additional protection plans. We have a unique watercourse nature in Norway, with many endangered species. And so we've had water power expansion that's definitely had a negative effect, for example. the salmon has been removed from well over 20 watercourses. Two thirds of the watercourses in Norway are already regulated. As mentioned earlier, about one third are protected, i.e. 390 watercourses. The last thing, the Baltic Sea watercourse, was a long fight to get in place, but we got it in place in 2019 – with broad support. The NVE says that there is little effect of implementing measures in the protected watercourses, and in order to get the amount of force you want, this is not an effective measure. Then we have to do more of what we've already done. We've transformed the tax system to facilitate the upgrade of our hydropower plants. We must achieve the energy savings targets in existing buildings, but also in industry. We have to facilitate sea winds, and then don't restrict the possibilities that we have there. Hybrid cables and others should be a matter of course that we get in place. Wind power on land is stopping now, but it will be a tighter system where it can still have a role. Then we need what I want to call Swedish solar states, and we should not forget geothermal, biogas, district heating, tidal and wave power. I am pleased that the government reports back on this matter that the Energy Commission will base its work on current rules in the protection plan for sheltered watercourses. That's good. The proposal to tighten up the law will not be accepted by the Left today. The protected watercourses today are protected by the Water Resource Act, by the Nature Diversity Act, the Planning and Building Act – national policy guidelines. Instead of going into a major legislative change, we believe that we now need a further supplementary protection plan for the Gengedal Watercourse, Garbergelva, Vinda and the Scurvy Valley Sons, and there may be others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1848	Protected watercourses are not now included in the mandate of the Energy Commission, in line with our proposal. It is good, and thanks to the environmental and outdoor organisations, and to SV and Red, who have stopped this attempt to undermine the protection of watercourses that Storting has decided to protect. The proposals for new expansion in sheltered watercourses met strong resistance, and I hope that the parties at Stortinget will think about why. Why are we protecting nature? It's not to have any area on the shelf until we want to destroy even more, not so that the environmental movement will have to use every waking moment to make sure that the protection is not sabotaged by the same batches that have adopted it. We protect nature so that nature continues to be nature. And why is it called green shifted green? Well, because we can't keep neither climate nor economics nor democracy without preserving the basis of life, and the basis of life is green. It's the living nature. Now the UN Panel on Nature and all the world's scientists say, very clearly, what the conservationists have said for a long time. Protection and restoration of nature must be as categorical as the requirement for social development and technology and investment to stop emitting more CO 2. If we don't now protect more nature and build up more nature, we can just forget the 'prey' about green shifts. That's why this case is special, because the absolute minimum to start a green shift at all must be to respect the little protection we already have. Parties that seriously want to speed up the green shift in Norway must now take this seriously. That is why the proposals of the Progress Party are so much more reactionary. It is only the continuation of the consistent march of the Advance Party that is heading the opposite way to what the earth and the future need. It is frightening that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Right have gone so far in the same direction, but it is good that they do not now support the proposals of the Progress Party. To accusations that we who want to protect nature do not want to produce energy: I just want to remind everyone who is braking in different areas that the Green Party has gone ahead in investing in sea wind, we want to cut low use of energy for electrification of platforms, for cryptography and other impossibility, and we want to put much more effort into energy saving, through the package we have proposed here on Stortinget. This case is historically important. This must be the final confirmation of protection by the Storing and must remain protected. We do not get any green replacement without protecting nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1869	‘The Committee considers that the concession treatment for power development of more than 1 MW in sheltered watercourses should be presented to the Stortinge and only considered in cases where other flood control measures have been tested, life and health are at stake and the protection values will not be affected by such measures.’ This is an excerpt from the 2016 energy message. We need more power. Green industry is going up, and emissions are going down. But we also have a principle, and that is that protected watercourses should be protected. The Voss-Roundalsel is one of the watercourses where there is a lot of activity, and it's a big resource for the community. We've got several watercourses like that in Norway. We're going to have more energy, but we're going to get it through other energy sources, and then we have to venture to discuss the energy sources we're going to have in the future. This applies to wind both on land and at sea. It concerns the upgrading of existing water power plants, and it concerns hydrogen, bioenergy and biogas, solar and energy efficiency improvements. Today, I am pleased that we are going to adopt the decisions we will take, bearing in mind that we continue to have protected watercourses, and that the principle is as it did in the 2016 Energy Communication. It is important for the neighbourhoods, tourism and, not least, wildlife that we protect about the vulnerable resources we have left in watercourses, but we still have the principle that in some watercourses, where there is a high risk of flooding, issues can be addressed in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1880	Now I'm going to do something I haven't done in Stortinget before, and that's to relate to a script. The starting point is that the Stortinget has protected a total of 390 watercourses, which together are representative of Norwegian nature, as we interpret it. The size has also said in the past that one assumes that the watercourses are essentially fixed, and that power development can be assessed in cases where flood protection is the primary purpose. Nor shall the protective values be significantly affected in such a case. Nature in Norwegian streams is diverse, unique and important to preserve. Common to the protected watercourses is that there are high environmental quality. Several of the watercourses, in addition to the watercourse protection, are protected by the Nature Diversity Act or designated as national salmon watercourses. Facilitating increased power generation in protected watercourses, as proposed by the representatives of the Progress Party, will be a marked breach of the policy pursued by changing governments for decades, which has been an important foundation and foundation in the Grand Duchy. Although the representatives point out that the development of new technologies will provide more gentle development, new hydropower will also lead to environmental disadvantages today. Furthermore, where protection values are not to be significantly affected, any extension to protected watercourses will not make a significant contribution to the national power recovery. In view of this, the Government has stated in its mandate to the Energy Commission that the watercourse protection plan should form the basis for the work, as proposed by the Red Party, the Green Party and the SV. Although we need to concentrate efforts on finding good projects other than the protected watercourses – and they are a number of them – we cannot exclude that there will be cases where regulation for power generation will be crucial as prevention of flood damage. This I'm open to considering in those cases where it might be relevant. Watercourses are primarily protected against power build-up, but the protection values must also be taken into account in other interventions. Watercourse protection is already well enshrined in the Water Resource Act and should also be taken into account in the administration under other legislation. I cannot therefore see the need to further anchor the protection of the law, as proposed by the representatives of the Red Party, the Green Party and the SV. There is no doubt that the basis in Stortinget that the protection plan is fixed is important, and we will have to assess any flood protection in case the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1895	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1900	Let me start by congratulating the Council of State on new tasks. He has obviously done a good job in the committee, because it turns out to be very difficult to find a substitute for him. Before becoming the Council of State, he repeatedly expressed the need for more force. In that context, it was quite natural to discuss sheltered watercourses, when one should look at the possibility of accessing more power. What has changed in recent months that should have helped to ensure that the need to see the potential of sheltered watercourses is no longer relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1909	The only thing that's changed is that I've gone from being a magnificent representative to becoming a state councillor. I have never said that we should put sheltered watercourses in pipes, or that we should build sheltered watercourses. But I have said that it is quite natural in those cases where one is going to upgrade the hydropower associated with sheltered watercourses, that one looks at the possibilities of expanding those hydropower plants somewhat, without impairing the protection quality. I think that's quite wise. I think that is right and natural to do, and that can be done within the firm framework of the protection plan, as it exists. I've never talked about opening up to remove the protection. The protection itself is a quality. But when we're upgrading our hydropower, I think it's natural that one looks at the possibility of expanding the hydropower potential not only in relation to sheltered watercourses, but generally, in the case of upgrading. Because it will most likely be easily accessible, new force, which has relatively little conflict level in it, and I think that's important to get involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1916	Thanks for the answer. I'm a little frustrated, because when you listen to the rhetoric, it sounds like you want to open up the opportunity to see if there's a potential to extract, but we know that with the decision that now exists, and the order that's sent to the Energy Commission, there's no room for looking at those possibilities. I want to challenge the Council of State on a thoughtful situation, where one sees that we have received a majority for our proposal. What is the potential for reinvigorating the Council of State to consider such proposals? I would like to think that he compared to the potential for creating conflict-free, new wind power on land, and the magnitude between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1925	I don't have a numerical basis to say what might lie there if someone opened up to sheltered watercourses, and I didn't think of it as a possible breakthrough in Stortinget. I have seen that it is unlikely that the Progress Party can have a majority in favour of such a proposal, and I do not think it is quite real either. I believe that there has been broad support, in fact, for the protective plan that is in place. The last time the Stortinge dealt with it, it was opened up to allow one to consider doing so in connection with and together with hydropower production. I think that makes sense, I think that's right. But I think it is also important that we keep the protection on the 390 watercourses that are protected, of nearly 4,000 watercourses that we have in the country. I think that's a wise approximation in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1932	So in the situation in Norway, where we are going into a transition, where we are going to phase out jobs, create new values and new jobs, and where the need for power is great – as the Council of State has already confirmed many times – the Council of State says that one with this proposal has not taken any interest in finding out how much potential it could have been by opening up power companies to go into and see what the potential is in individual waters, where there is less interference and the benefit is greater in power generation. Has anyone not considered this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1937	I cannot answer if there is anyone who can give exact figures on what lies behind the potential of sheltered watercourses. It will depend on how one builds them out, how one regulates it, how large the magazine capacity is, if one does so in this context – for all this is related. The making of those calculations is not particularly significant for the use of bureaucratic computational force. It is much better to use it in the areas where we are actually going to succeed – with sea winds, floating sea winds, land-based hydroelectric upgrades, land-based wind power, sun, etc. There are a number of energy sources and a number of possibilities for Norway to be able to cope with the growth of renewable energy production in line with the growth of consumption. We can also develop very important industries related to it. Now that the Progress Party has suspended itself in this with protected watercourses as its only solution, it is the Progress Party that has a problem, not the Storting and not the majority, because we see the possibility in the other energy technologies, which are now important to realise and which can also contribute around, not least as the European situation is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1944	We heard right now that there are becoming more conservationists of going from being a magnificent representative to becoming a state councillor. I have to say that's good. Perhaps more people should have had that opportunity, and perhaps the council could have offered comrade Halleland a small practical space in the ministry so that he too might be able to discover the natural values associated with our watercourses. But my question is that while the Council of State was a staging representative, he was contemplating the idea of expanding into sheltered watercourses. We hear that he has now come up with better thoughts, and I just want an assurance that these ideas of expansion in sheltered watercourses are put in a drawer, that the drawer is closed and locked, and that the key is thrown.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1951	When I go up to the office where I have offices now, I see a number of pictures of Progress Party people, so I thought almost the entire population had been in the Oil and Energy Department in the last eight years. But there might be someone who might have to get inside there to become a conservationist, too. I have never ordered that we build sheltered watercourses. I have said – as I said before – and I have meant, and I think it would have been wise to look at hydropower plants that are currently established in connection with the protected watercourses. If they are to be upgraded, can it be done in a better way than today and at the same time get more power out? I think that's wise. But I can promise that what we have said, and what we stand for, is that the protection plan for the watercourses is fixed as it is. In those cases where we will have to intervene in the future in order to operate with flood damping, and where there may be a possibility that hydropower plants may be relevant in connection with this, I also hope SV will support it. There will be a reasonable use of those resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1959	I have also noted the statements of the Council of State before he became the Council of State, and to me they recall the arguments about what Einar Gerhardsen described in his time: As long as the struggle is about the single watercourse, there can always be so many arguments and so much political pressure that the development vision prevails. One of the arguments that is used a lot is with flood protection. What I want to challenge the Council of State on – because I fully agree that flood protection is important – is really: is it not possible to spend more money on flood protection without doing so in connection with the development of hydropower plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1966	Well, it is, but then one doesn't get the additional dimension in it that one can also produce renewable energy. I've got a perception of Red lately that they're actually opposed to renewable power. They do not really want any new power projects. They're against sea wind. They are now opposed to this kind of force. They are, on the contrary, mostly about facilitating a positive industrial development, that the industry should be able to cope with the green shift, and that we can develop a new fantastic industry based on the amazing expertise of our oil and gas supply industry, for example. within floating sea winds. I feel that Red has become a no-party. They say no to most, including in power policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1971	It's true that Red is a no-party when it comes to many things, but not everything. Instead of answering yes or no to my question, the Council of State repeated many no. What I'm asking is, is whether the council is willing to spend more money on flood protection regardless of development plans, or whether we're just going to keep the Flood Father there in places like Odda and where I come from. My district is at risk of flooding. Is it only relevant to spend money on flood protection if you do so in connection with development?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1978	I hope the representative Marhaug heard what I was answering – very simple, really – on her previous question. She asked if I thought they were going to do flood suppression without using the hydropower potential for power generation, and then I said yes. It is possible, but then it will cost more, and then one will also lose the quality of getting more renewable power into a market that needs it, into a system that now has high prices, and where one also has to reduce prices by more power. This government will ensure that we are able to continue working with flood protection and tailoring. It's pretty important that we can do that. Special screening, I think, is important in the future, related to people and homes associated with areas that are outsourced. There's a task the government is going to follow up on in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1985	I get to say that I have had good cooperation with government councils from the Progress Party on Watercourse Protection for many years, but I will not go further into it. I agree with the Council of State that today's law on protected watercourses is good. It is under the Water Resource Act, many have also mentioned the Nature Diversity Act, and national political and planning and building laws are underpinning it. I'm a little worried when the Council of State starts talking about where you can have hydropower development in relation to sheltered watercourses, and also this connection to flood protection and hydropower development, because under the Water Resource Act, the protected watercourses are explicitly protected from hydropower expansion. My question is: If the law is established, will the Council of State also ensure that the content and purpose of that law are fully established?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1994	Yes, I do, but Stortinget has opened up the possibility that where you want to implement flood protection, you can also assess whether this can be used for power generation. I have to choose to relate to what Stortinget has also said in that context, so Stortinget will decide whether it should be like this or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e1999	The councils keep their feet in the door for intervention in sheltered watercourses, we have heard more examples of that. The consolation is that these interventions shall not affect the protection values ‘denominated’. It's a term used by many. The exciting question is what it is. Is it that the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not see that the interventions are worth mentioning? Well, if we're going to draw energy out of a watercourse, we're going to affect the physics of that watercourse, and we're going to affect the physics, we're going to affect the biology. It's just like that. Then the question is, What does the Council of State think is the influence of non-denominated watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2008	I cannot answer that directly, and I do not think the representative Hansson would expect me to be able to answer that either. I just want to underline what is my responsibility. I do not keep my foot in the door to open up for hydropower expansion in sheltered watercourses. I am very clear that the protection plan is firm, and the leaders that Stortinget has given in connection with it in terms of flood suppression, I have to choose to deal with it. If we are to implement a flood suppression measure in relation to a protected watercourse, I have to deal with it and assess whether it is possible and appropriate to do so by also having power generation in that case. Then it is that the Storting must decide whether it is acceptable or not, but I do not keep my foot in the door to build sheltered watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2015	The chord shift has been completed. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2022	It was fascinating to hear the line change and the posts that have been held, for everyone wants a green shift, everyone wants more power, but they have no plan for how it should come. The need for power is increasing, especially with the electrification and all the climate measures they want. Fog talk and wishful thinking are not driving a power plant. Then there's a need for rational force-building. The progress party has more power than others, because we have not been asked to electrify Norwegian Sockets, and we have also called for other forceful symbolic climate action. On the other hand, what we have said is to look at the possibility of gentle development of sheltered watercourses. We have not said that we should build up and destroy sheltered watercourses, but where it is potentially possible to expand it with new technologies in new times – some of these long after they have been protected, and where there is a danger of flooding – we need to look at the possibility of exploiting more power. The green shift that we're going to go through, which the Progress Party obviously also sees opportunities and potential, requires the energy that the others are not willing to invest and facilitate. Their calculation doesn't go up, and now we see the consequence of a loss of power. A Europe that desperately cries for strength, which has led a little thoughtful policy for a while, has major ringing effects and consequences for Norway as well. It is very good to see that there is a real orientation in Europe, in terms of both climate and energy, and it would have been incredibly good if it had reached the Grottinget as well, that both the Green Party and the other climate fanatical parties also realized the fact. Energy is power. Energy is a prerequisite for living and working in Norway. We have to facilitate that, and we have to understand that. That is why our proposal, in which we are asking the government to facilitate power companies to apply for the expansion of hydropower in protected watercourses where they have identified that power generation can be increased without paying particular attention to natural and environmental concerns, is good. Maybe we'll end up with zero. Maybe there's too much natural interference. But they should look at the possibility. In addition, we want the Stortinget to ask: ‘The management removes the limit of 1 megawatt installed power for small power deployment in sheltered watercourses where the power plant adapts to adequate natural interference’.» Both of these proposals are very sensible, and we hope to have the majority's support for them. We need power, and this is a good opportunity to get it figured out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2040	I think this debate clearly shows that this matter is actually a lost opportunity, because as predicted initially, none of those who have gone to the pulpit have shown alternative ways of increasing the power surplus. The right is for a gentle expansion. We believe that it is possible to consider watercourses where you can have an extension that does not affect the protection values for which the protection is intended. When I hear both the Council of State and the representative Merkesdal, I am a little surprised, because I really feel that we mean a lot of the same thing. When it comes to looking at places where we know that flood suppression has not been implemented, as the representative Marhaug is concerned: we know that nothing will be done there unless you do it in combination with power development that is profitable, and so it is going to go very quickly with flood suppression measures. We also know that looking at existing hydropower plants and expanding them, and looking at water from sheltered watercourses, is a good procedure. But when the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the government really think much of the same thing as at least the Right believes – and also the Advance Party, as I understood it – but does not allow the Energy Commission to assess it, it is a lost opportunity. The power we need, we need it now -- we need to finish those processes before 2030. After 2030 it is not so much needed if we have a strong sea wind bet, as Right wants – but not with a half-way bet, as the government has put it. My summary of this matter is that there is a lost opportunity to do something like there is a broad majority to do, and look at the gentle development related to floods. However, this treatment has not been possible in the context of the Energy Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2054	I am pleased that we are discussing hydropower plants when we are discussing proposals on watercourses. That's why it's being discussed more than other sources of power development, but it's also been mentioned, so there's no danger – I can calm Right with that. I also want to remind the hall that the green shift started over 100 years ago. To say that with the author Gro Holm, not the foreign correspondent: «Let the white coal replace the blacks of England.» She wrote that already in 1936, and that was what happened, but it has come with a cost, both for nature and for the local environment. That's the cost we don't want to impose on nature and the local environment again. I drew myself the most to comment on some suggestions and plays that have come from the Right Party, because I think the Right Party is getting a little cheap away from this debate. The representative of Thorheim spoke of the Right as a party for nature protection and a conservative party. It may be that the Right has been once, but to me it seems that there is a party that is most concerned with changing to destroy, not changing to preserve. That's why they have, among other things, Launched a list of ten protected watercourses they will go on – eight of them are in my home country with the strange name, Westland in indefinite form. These plans, I would say, are quite serious. They remind us of the expansion that happens piece by piece, which is the pressure we're going to experience more and more in the future. I am very pleased that the Energy Commission has at least a mandate that does not add up to that kind of development, but at the same time it underlines the need for more protection, because it is when the pressure becomes high that there is a need for protection. That's when those boundaries are always going to shift. I am also pleased – amazingly enough – with the additional proposals of the Greens and the Greens
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2067	We get a better debate if the speakers deal with reality when they talk about the politics of other parties. Both the rapporteur and the representatives of the Progress Party have repeatedly claimed that the Greens do not pursue a policy that will give the strength that Norway needs. Well, that is totally wrong, and it can only mean that the representatives of the Progress Party, and possibly the case-rapporteur, are not involved in the energy policy debate. It's a little sad when we discuss things like this. The Green Party has been the driver of wind power at Stortinget for three periods. We are going into too much expansion of wind power, with a whole new level of nature protection requirements. It will provide a large amount of energy to Norway. We're proposing a big package for energy saving, in 13 terawat hours. We are in favour of upgrading existing hydropower plants. We are in favour of solar and other renewable energy resources or sources, and we are in favour of using energy smarter than throwing it away on the electrification of oil activities and on cryptocurrency. I wish we could have a debate that didn't consist in claiming things that weren't the case. It is possible to obtain the power we need in Norway for the future, in a nature conservation way, if we focus on it. And in that picture, the NVE has thus determined that getting rid of protected watercourses for power generation will not provide a good or significant contribution to energy production in Norway – there are entirely other sources that will provide. That's why we should focus on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2076	I'm not going to extend the debate, but I just want to clarify to the representative Marhaug that the list that the Right provided about ten watercourses, there were ten watercourses that are examples of watercourses where there are flood problems, and where one sees that it is possible to make a gentle expansion. It's not like the Right is going in to expand hydropower in those watercourses, but it was to show that there are possible watercourses, which could be assessed by the Energy Commission and later by the Department and the Storing. And I would like to say to the representative, Rasmus Hansson, that I very much recognise the strong sea wind effort that the Greens are in favour of, and that is stronger than, the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2083	When we discuss sheltered watercourses today, the answer has just become that we have chosen the environment over energy. It can be a good starting point, but it also has consequences. When you choose not to discuss energy or choose not to discuss the lack of energy, it also has consequences. I believe that when you quote the former government councils from the Advancement Party here in the pulpit, when they have expressed a positive opinion about watercourses that have been protected, it must be very positive. I can't see that it's going to prove anything other than that for the Progress Party also means something to the environment. There are some watercourses we're going to stay far away from. But our whole point is that as far as part of these watercourses is concerned, it's been 50 years since they were protected, and we believe that there is a knowledge and competence today that has evolved, and that now we can have the opportunity to see if there are watercourses from which we can get power unless there is a limited intervention. I understand the environmental movement and the parts that are skeptical. I understand that a victory had been won out if the proposals of the Progress Party had been passed. But it's not just that a yes has consequences, but when we say no, it also has consequences. Because it's clear that when we're going to take this transition, when we're going to change everyday life and we're going to do things in a more climate-friendly way, it will also need, among other things, to do things. energy. If we're going to electrify, we need more power. If we're going to get that power, if we're going to make society connect, we need that power at a certain price. That is what the Progress Party is doing – that we should be able to obtain more power for a cheap money. Then I hear everyone who is kind of protesting and talking about power and asking for an understanding of it. No, I do not accept the Greens' interest in sea wind. It's totally unrealistic. They're talking about having 2,000 wind turbines by 2030. That means that if we started last year, you would have to have built about. 20 every month. Hywind Tampen is carrying eleven pieces, and we might be able to get them started in 2026. There is no realism in this force as the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European It is also unrealistic that we should be able to expand sea winds with such a large number in a gentle and good way, in cooperation with other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2092	I think I can reassure the representative Halleland that if he had opened up to full expansion in all sheltered watercourses, it would not have been the solution to society's electrification needs set up against the climate challenges. It's going to simplify the image. We have a lot of good alternatives and shouldn't open up to it. I took the floor just to underline, point one, that the proposal from the Progress Party, which now also supports the Right, is completely open. It is up to the hydropower builders to seek if they are identified that this can be done without paying particular attention to nature and the environment. It's actually a little strange that the Right chooses to vote for it, I think. I also took the floor to comment on what Thorheim's representative said, if not the Energy Commission could at least look at this. Then I would like to stress that it would be very unnatural, because whether it is nature protection or watercourse protection, it is a political framework, a political protection, of protective values that are professionally justified. To leave that issue to an energy commission, set up to assess the energy situation now, would be to erode the role of Storting in precisely protecting natural and watercourse qualities around Norway, and at least this government will not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2101	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-18.ana.ud171e2116	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? – That is not the case, and the meeting has been cancelled.
