ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e28	The President will propose that the public gallery of infectious diseases be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e35	On behalf of Margret Hagerup, Kari-Anne Jønes, Guri Melby, Abid Raja, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the continuation of a teacher-specialist scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e40	The representative, Mr Rauand Ismail, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e45	On behalf of the representatives of Une Bastholm, Rasmus Hansson and myself, I would like to make a proposal to suspend the payment of a fee for the serving industry. We want the proposal to be examined in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 39, second paragraph, point (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e50	The representative, Roy Steffensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e55	On behalf of the representatives of Silje Hemdal, Terje Halleland, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to take over the F-16 to the Flyhistorical Museum Sola.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e60	The representative, Marius Arion Nilsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e65	On behalf of the representatives of Frank Edvard Sve, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Helge André Njåstad, Terje Halleland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to open up the possibility of prudent expansion of hydropower in sheltered watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e71	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e87	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e96	I allow myself to ask a simple question to the Prime Minister. It is whether the Prime Minister can clarify whether the Hurdals platform’s mention of foreignables puts an end to hybrid cables linked to sea wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e101	The Hurdal platform has a very ambitious formulation of sea wind, the potential it provides for Norway, large sea areas, large industrial opportunities and great opportunities to generate new power. That's what we're doing. When the government of Solberg presented a message about energy for work – there is a message that has many good points and very good information – it was the new government's assessment that that message needs a supplement. It's working on it, so there's an additional message. There we will go into the criteria for how we can develop the sea wind potential. One of the questions is how sea wind turbines should be connected to Norway and, where appropriate, to other countries. There is little discussion in the communication presented by the government of Solberg – what are the criteria and conditions for this? A windmill will often need power from land to get started and work. The question has then been raised about a wind farm in Norwegian sea areas will take effect from Norway via the wind farm and from other countries – whether it is actually a new inter national link. We in the Workers' Party are concerned about – and the Hurdal platform states – that new inter-national connections should not be built during this period. However, we need to take a closer look at how the sea-wind platforms can be designed, how they can deliver power to Norway — we need more power in Norway — how they can deliver power to oil and gas installations on the base, and whether they can in some cases also have power exchanges with other countries. This investigation has not been fully carried out – we need to go into it more thoroughly. But, as I said, the ambitions for sea wind for Norway are great, and that is what the government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e110	Then I would like to thank you for the small talk on sea wind. The question was very clear, because it is highlighted by the speakers of the Central Party that hybrid cables are not possible because it is an inter-territorial cable and that it is not allowed in view of the agreements. Then my question is, is it that the point in the Hurdal platform means that you can't implement hybrid cables connected to sea wind? There is also the question: is it that the Workers' Party has not negotiated away the possibility of a hybrid cable in connection with the Hurdal platform, or has they simply not considered these essential framework conditions? The actors of the most mature project we have, on Southern North Sea II, say that hybrid cables are crucial for whether they will be able to expand the field. So this is our first big industrial project on sea wind, and they think this is a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e121	I think the challenge is that we need to define more clearly what hybrid sea wind will mean — what the full implications are of the power coming from land to a sea windmill, and whether that means that there is direct power transmission from Norway to other countries. We have to go into this in more detail, it's not thoroughly explained. It was not intended to give a 2 minute lecture on sea wind, but it is not thoroughly informed, I believe, in the papers available now. We're going to work on that, and we're going to work on that. We have ambitions to invest heavily in sea wind, but then it is also important to clarify these conditions because we are concerned that there should be something that primarily serves Norway – which provides more power, provides power for our platforms. The conditions for the functioning of these marine wind installations need to be clarified to ensure that we do not actually open up new inter-national connections with power from Norway to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e126	There will be follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e131	The question is, what did the Workers' Party think, and what did the Workers' Party and the Centre talk about when they negotiated this question? Marit Arnstad, the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, has been clear and clear that the door has been closed to hybrid cables. Was it not discussed how to interpret this theme in the Hurdal platform, or was it not well understood that this is a challenge? I repeat: this is therefore crucial for the first major adventure related to wind power in Norway. It makes it possible to do this without having to subsidize the large amount of the state budget – if we can get that network to be built. So last week the Environment Minister said here that it would be a tragedy if you didn't get these solutions. I agree with him that it would be a tragedy for the industrial adventure, but my question is: Hasn't the framework been clarified to agree between two parties in Hurdal to say no to land connections – that this is not about hybrid cables?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e138	I think the representative of Solberg said it quite well. There are challenges that need to be addressed in this context. If the representative finds it entirely unproblematic that there should be a large amount of power via a sea wind installation, and then take power from Norway out of Norway as an intermediary, she would have to believe it. I believe there is room to build and invest heavily in sea wind, and I believe Norway will seize that opportunity. We are going to bet on it industrially, and we are also going to meet the needs we have to secure power in Norway. It is possible to determine better than that until now is done by the government as set. The complexity of this was not informed in the Storing Communication. The Hurdal platform states that we should bet on sea wind, but we should not establish new inter-national connections with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e143	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e148	I agree with the Prime Minister that it is necessary to look closely at the question of how the hybrid cable system should be, but I understand that the question raised by the representative Solberg was whether or not the Hurdal platform would open up hybrid cables, not what the device of any hybrid cable should be. So we have an oil and energy minister who has opened up hybrid cables and believes it is in line with the Hurdal platform, we have a climate and environment minister who has opened up hybrid cables and believes it is in line with the Hurdal platform, we have a parliamentary leader of the Central Party who believes that it is absolutely not in line with the Hurdal platform, and we have a representative from the Central Party, namely Myhrvold, who has given a guarantee to his constituents that hybrid cables will not come. The question to the Prime Minister is this: Can the Prime Minister clarify how to interpret the Hurdal platform here – does the formulation of inter-national connections open for hybrid cables or not? It's a yes/no question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e158	We have a prime minister who needs to find a good solution to this in the government, and we are working on that. It's not a chapter on hybrid cables in the Hurdal platform, it's right, but it's formulations about the ambition for ocean wind, a powerful bet. It can happen through floating installations and fixed installations – great opportunities for our industry. There are also formulations that new foreign tables should not be built during this period. If sea breezes are defined with foreign tables and power transmission from Norway to other countries, the Hurdal platform is quite clear that this is something we do not want. It's possible to find a solution that hits this in a way that allows us both to develop, that it can be profitable, and that it can be defended over time, it's possible to do so. But the term 'hybrid sea wind' needs further investigation and clarification before any conclusion can be drawn on that. That's what the government is working on. It was not done by the former government, it is done by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e165	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e170	I very much appreciate the emphasis of the Hurdal Platform and the Prime Minister that this government will invest heavily in sea wind. How does the Prime Minister see that large production capacity can be developed for sea winds without hybrid cables?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e175	I often hear that here it is such that either you have ocean winds that are not hybrid cables, and then it has to subsidize, or then it's hybrid cables, and then it's profitable. I think it's a little bit crooked. When I talk to the industry about this, there are a lot of aspects of marine window construction. There are very many questions about framework conditions and how this is facilitated. The government is now working on this, and the trade unions are investigating that this should be clearly stated in the calls that can be made. Then I will not rule out having a sea wind farm, a simple installation, which also has contact with other countries. Power can be produced on the installation that may be available to other countries if it is rational. The point is that if the transfer of power produced in Norway via such an installation to other countries becomes a new inter-territorial link that leads out of Norway, that is something we do not want. This should be addressed in such a way that it is both profitable, industrially feasible and provides opportunities for new jobs and a new industrial chapter in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e182	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e187	Every year Norway has had cheap electricity for people and businesses. Now families, single residents, pensioners and businesses experience a power shock. Many are completely out of the bills that are now dumping, and from the Prime Minister, empathy and understanding are expressed in both the new year and otherwise. But people don't want empathy. They're looking for help, both in the very short term, to be able to pay their bills, and in the long term, by stopping this stream. The government is the paralytic of action and is run from hill to hill. The public hopes in between 30 and 40 billion. kr in extra income and distribute smulks in aid. The winner is the state, counties and municipalities, who raise money on electricity. In addition, the country insists on sky-high gas prices. This comes at the top of record fuel taxes, sky-high food prices and interest rates. With the Workers' Party-Center Party government, the real common people's turn is to be skinned. Those with the least wear the most. For many there has been a tough Christmas, where they have been spinning and saving on the power, but still get record bills. Kraft analysts say that this situation will last a long time. The proposal of the Progress Party to remove VAT and electricity taxes, which would mean something, has been voted down, and now we have made a proposal for a maximum price of 50 ør per kilowatt hour, which would provide predictability and lower electricity prices instead of alms from the state. Does the Prime Minister support the proposal of the Progress Party to introduce a maximum electricity price as long as the electricity market is out of control? Does the Prime Minister really think that it is reasonable that people pay more than twice as much as the normal price of the flow, which is the result of the government's power support?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e200	There is an exceptional situation in the power market in Norway and Europe. I think we know the reasons, but I can briefly mention them: very high gas prices – we have never seen them before so high – phasing out coal power, phasing out nuclear power, high CO 2 taxes, and that there has been a smaller supply of renewable energy in Europe. The sum of this has led to a situation we haven't seen before. I mentioned the energy message from the previous government. It came last year, and the situation we see now was not mentioned as something that could happen. What has the government done? We started from day one: We signalled a reduction in the electricity charge, an increase in housing aid and an increase in support for those who need it the most. We have provided a whole new instrument in the Norwegian welfare state that takes social considerations in a power market that has a price and demand logic that regulates how it comes to power, but does not have a social logic in how to relieve people who are hit by high prices. The scheme put forward on 11 December makes it possible to take part of people's electricity bill when it goes over 70 centimetres per kilowatt hour, within a framework that hits ordinary households. In view of price developments, that aid has increased to 80 p.p., which is a powerful measure. I don't think there is any country in Europe that has done that kind of grip or that kind of action. In addition, according to agreements here in Stortinget, we have extended housing support and some of those arrangements. So this means I'm doing very well. The maximum price has been determined and evaluated in many contexts, and it is warned against it. It tends to be a maximum price that prices are applying for, so it's going to be a maximum price as a kind of rule. I believe that the way prices work, they're going to regulate supply and demand, but we have to have political will to go into and remedy the situation that people come into if prices are going to be abnormally high, as they have now become, and as the government has done. We have a total package of up to 10 billion. kr, and I think that is a powerful measure to help people in these difficult winter months.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e214	The maximum price would help many now who get more than twice as high electricity bills. Some of them are Linda and the family of four in Langangen. VG wrote about them yesterday. The son Casper is 12 years old and has the skin disorder iktyosis. It is very painful, and he depends on bathing both morning and evening. He changes clothes very frequently, and that means that the washing machine there is going all the time, five-six times a day, at 90 degrees. So they can't save on the current, because Casper is sicker. They only have expenses on clothes for Casper from 4000 to 5000 kroner per month. And now they get huge power bills. In November, they got a three times as high electricity bill as what they did the year before, and they start to worry about the December bill. Does the Prime Minister consider it reasonable that families with sick children who do not have the opportunity to save electricity should have such extra costs? If not, what will the Prime Minister do for Linda and Casper and others who are in the same situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e221	This is very tough for many people who get power bills that are far, far higher than what they've planned for, saved for, prepared for. That's also why the government has taken decisions, got a majority in the Storting for powerful arrangements to help families. It's over the power bill. So Norway – I cannot go into the individual situation of this family, which has a strict everyday life, I can understand – other types of arrangements to help people with special health needs. After all, we have also expanded the arrangements, the social arrangements, housing, social assistance, etc., just to be able to capture it for those in the most difficult situation. It is hoped that this electricity market will return over time to the normal situation. The major task for Norway is to produce more renewable energy. Then we cannot, as the Party of Advancement, say no to the wind on land, no to the wind on the sea. Then we have to be willing to produce new power that can enter the Norwegian market and make sure that prices are lower. In the meantime, we need to have arrangements where we set up each other, and have policy decisions that ensure that we relieve the electricity bill to households.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e230	There will be follow-up questions -Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e235	Unfortunately, neither empathy nor compassion is helping Casper, Linda, nor any of the others who are now in a very difficult situation, and there are requests from people who are in despair. I was contacted by a merchant in a nearby store in District Norway. A year ago, he received a bill of NOK 6800. Now he got a bill of 19 000 kroner. He runs the store on the first floor, and he lives on the second floor. This means that he has a common flowmeter — and falls out of the support schemes. It has great consequences for him and for his store with three employees. Does the Prime Minister think it is reasonable for those who work and live in the same building not to receive any power support? Will the government take the initiative to change this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e243	It is important to listen to experiences from how such a system turns out and hits. The government has done the same, and it is willing to see if there is a need for change. This case that the representative mentions can be situations where you have one current meter for both a household and for activities that are in addition. I'm open to looking at how we can get to that. The important thing is that we meet the households across the board. This arrangement is unbureaucratic. I think those who have now been billed in December will look at the bill at the bottom that it says it's taken out of a good portion from there, and it's going to be increased in January, February and March. Then, after this arrangement, we get to evaluate how it has worked. Now we're looking at some of the recordings that are coming, among other things. from agriculture, from the greenhouse industry, and have tried to meet them. And of course, we want to be open to dialogue with people about how we can best adapt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e252	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e257	It is good that you have now – after being driven from skilful to skilful there too – said that you should look at both the farmers and the greenhouse industry, but there are also a lot of other businesses that now get huge bills. A pizza restaurant in Kongsberg has received NOK 120,000 in electricity bill for December. They simply consider closing the doors. Nina's training center in Ashim got a shock bill of almost 70,000 kroner, and it's quite natural that she fears the consequences of it. There are also many other companies that are struggling and don't get a single penny in power support. How can the Prime Minister have a conscience not to lift a finger for businesses and industries that are so badly hit by power prices, when because of this we can actually jeopardize jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e262	I understand that it is difficult in many of the cases where companies have established themselves to buy electricity with spot prices. Very many companies have long-term contracts. They're in a slightly different situation than what Listhaug describes. Over time, Norway has had low energy prices. It's been one of our advantages. The reason is that we produce renewable energy and have a surplus of power in Norway. The big question is how can we help households and businesses that there is enough power in the years to come. Then we have to have a plan and a will to expand more power. It has to be done in a way that takes into account both nature and the environment, but that has the will to implement it. The great potential lies within the wind. It's coming increasingly within the sun. We also need to collect gains from energy efficiency improvement and saving. But we're open to look at all sorts of possible schemes that can come into contact with jobs, businesses. I think it is important that this with long-term contracts is emphasised and evaluated, because we see that spot prices vary as they do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e269	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e274	You could also better stop wasting electricity out on the oil platforms on this madness that electrification is. In the VG we could read about Auli Park housing in the municipality of Nes in Viken. They received a power bill of almost NOK 100000 in December. The total expenditure for 2020 was 139 000 kroner. That's crazy. Common costs are increasing and increasing, but they do not keep up with electricity prices. The government has said that housing companies and jointers will get power support, but nothing is clear. Anders Dabakk, who is the director of the community, says of the government's efforts in the VG: "They say they're working on it. But everything takes so long with them. So it's just nonsense." What answer does the Prime Minister have to the joint and housing councils about what support they receive? Does the Prime Minister agree that it is critical that this will take so long when the power support was launched as early as December 11, i.e. more than a month ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e286	This week came the proposal of the Storting to increase to 80 pst. in compensation over 70 øre. I believe that is an important handshake for households. Then, of course, we should listen to the recordings that come — how the scheme can be accurate, how it can capture borderline cases that come between different schemes. Then we will return to Stortinget and work quickly on it. This scheme has been put in place in record time. There was nothing of this in the drawers and lockers in the Norwegian system that could compensate households. That's what we've developed. We spend a lot of money on it. And then, of course, we're open to adjusting it so that it's accurate, and those who have rights to get that support get it neatly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e291	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e296	Yes, and they need an answer quickly. While public spending money, sports have also been hit hard. At Dælenga in Oslo, it is now 20 000 kroner a day to heat up the lawn. They can't afford that, and it's closed. TV 2 could also tell about Sola Turn, who got a more than twice as high bill, on the net sum of NOK 567 000, for 2021 – more than budgeted, of course. The hall is used by hundreds of torchettes aged 4 to 88 years, and it must be kept warm, just to avoid harm to users. The electricity bill is now to be sent to the parents, who will have to pay for this electricity cost in addition to having their own high cost of owner-occupancy. Near IL, who had a electricity bill of NOK 7 000 in November 2020, got an invoice of NOK 95 000 the following year. There are no aid schemes in sight. Does the Prime Minister think it is sustainable that sports teams are hit so hard, and that parents should pick up the bill here too, in order for the state treasury to be filled up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e305	I am aware of the challenge that many of the sports have associated with halls, outdoor facilities etc. This hits the whole country. This is an exceptional situation with high prices prevailing in Europe and Norway. It's challenging for many. We have taken strong action against households, and of course we want to have dialogue with both sports and other sectors to see if there are ways to get them rescued.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e310	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e316	It is the market forces that wrestle with people in Norway this winter. We have an energy law that allows the power price to be controlled by the market alone, and that market system is now in deep crisis. High gas prices in Europe push the price of Norwegian hydropower into the weather because the price of the most expensive energy source determines in the free power market. It's incomprehensible to people, and the consequences are unsocial and unacceptable. Prishoppet threatens the economy of people, not only the poorest, but also families with very common incomes, and it threatens one of the main reasons why we have a varied and strong industry in Norway, namely the competitive advantage of reasonable, zero-emission energy. We see that farmers are struggling, the small industry is struggling, sports are struggling, different types of less business are struggling. In the long term, even larger industries will wear off if we don't get control of this. No one has taken into account such great fluctuations, not even those who are working on analysing the electricity market. It is good that the compensation schemes are getting better and better. In SV we are pleased to have been able to contribute to this, and that the government has come to us further, with higher compensation. However, it must be clear that, with good compensation schemes, it must be – can only be – the first step. It's the system that's the problem, and the next step must therefore be system change. How can we avoid this price pressure repeating itself? We cannot have state compensation arrangements every winter. We must have viable and predictable power prices for the winters of the future. Does the Prime Minister agree that the Energy Act must be amended and the electricity price regulated?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e325	In addition to a compensation scheme that relieves households – and I am happy that we have reached agreement with SV on it – we need to address this issue in the long, medium and longer term, as it is called, and it must consist of several elements. We are now going to set up an energy commission to review how the power market works for Norway, how it does it, where there is a need to make changes. I will not now, today, conclude that the Energy Act will change, and what to do with adjustments there, but I think there are some issues that are quite clear. Firstly, it is recognised that the power market for Norway has been in positive development over the last 20 to 30 years. We have had low prices, we have had predictability both for businesses and for households that Norway has low electricity prices compared to other countries. 2020 was a year of record prices, and then 2021, because it was a dry year and all the conditions we've seen now, was a year of very high prices. We're not changing that development by changing the Energy Act. What we have to do is go in and look at: how can Norway produce more power? What does the power export and exchange mean for Norway as it is today? We've had it since 1950, it's been developing, mainly with our Nordic neighbours, but we've also got cables to the continent and to the United Kingdom. How does it work? What opportunities are there for Norway and what challenges are there for Norway? It has to be assessed. With regard to the power system itself that regulates how power enters this large market, I would say that the challenge is not necessarily there, but we get a challenge as to whether there is enough power. There are differences in prices in Norway. Now we have high prices in the south and in the west, in the middle of Norway and in the north of Norway it's lower. North Norway has Europe's lowest electricity prices. There's also a reason to look at that distribution. So there's a lot of questions here, over some time, that we have to go into thoroughly to make sure that Norway also in the future has a fair advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e336	Now what we're seeing is a new situation where we have to assume that in the years that come, we can get the same type of extreme pressure on prices. Then it's not that a system has worked before, a reason to keep it in a new situation where it doesn't work well enough. What we're asking for, I think, is soil-dwelling, social-democratic policy: when the market has too much power, we take that power from the market, and then we find ways to rule. I want to challenge the government to come up with more concrete ideas about it. That's the next thing we need: first compensation — that's the emergency measure — so control, to make sure this doesn't repeat itself. SV has presented a concrete proposal: Let's replace the costly and confusing intermediaries that electricity sales companies are today, with a state-owned power company that can transmit electricity from producers to consumers, at fixed and predictable prices. Will the government consider that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e345	It is a proposal that SV has not yet developed, I have seen in the media, so it is launched as an idea. I don't want to reject any idea. What I think I'm going to say as a general attitude is that we're going to be very careful that if we replace one system with another, we're going to be pretty sure that the system we're introducing is better. I mean, for example. that there are reasons to say that the concept of maximum price can have effects that are not good for the way we get new power, and for the customers. I believe I have seen investigations that having a two-price system that allows a large household to be divided into two, and many types of adaptations, is not a recommended measure. So we have to constantly look at how we can change the system -- it's soil-based, social-democratic policy. Shopping force in terms of being able to have social measures to help people in a market system that doesn't have a social impulse or conscience, we've shown that now. Then we're going to go in and see how the system works, and how it can be improved, and – not least, and I hope SV join in – we need to produce more renewable power. It also confronts us with some demanding choices, but we must be open to them to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e352	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e357	SV wants to look at both the two-price and the maximum price, and investigations are required. But the reason why we have to look at system change is that the most important investigation of all, namely reality, shows that today's system is not working. One side of this is that both foreign tables and integration into the EU's common energy market, for example. Interrelationships, contributing to price balancing between Norway, the EU and the United Kingdom. So I'll do something I rarely do, quote the NHO-top Stein Lier-Hansen. He said to the class fight on December 22nd: ‘Energy is not a product such as beer, potatoes or bananas. It is a strategic resource that cannot be left to be controlled by pure market mechanisms.’» For this reason, both he and the head of the Joint Undertaking, Jørn Eggum, have been in favour of renegotiations of agreements with the EU and the United Kingdom in order to increase the ability to regulate exports of power and to ensure control of energy. Will the government take the initiative in this type of renegotiation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e367	I am pleased that the representative has found it in the NHO that beer and bananas are not the same as power – that is, of course, informative for the debate. [[Laughter]] But I agree that power is not a common commodity. At the bottom, strength is very political, for all decisions that bring about power resources are about politics and about natural interventions, and the balances that need to be made are fundamental political. So the question is how to sell that product, and I'm not willing here and now to skip a line and say that in the last months of this extreme situation, reality means that everything that was before, doesn't work, that it hasn't been good for industry, has not been good for consumers. It's a premature conclusion. We're going to be pretty sure what such a renegotiation of that kind of agreement means. There are exchanges between Norway and other countries we depend on in many contexts – all the exchanges we have with our Swedish neighbours and our Danish neighbours and the Nordic system. So it has to be considered very carefully before we go to such a step. I'm not ready to draw that conclusion now, but we're going to review and look at what opportunities that might provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e376	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e381	Then we expect the government to assess it. That's good. SV believes that four considerations must form the basis of Norwegian power policy. It must contribute to the achievement of the Norwegian climate objectives, that the price of the necessary consumption of ordinary people is reasonable and predictable, that we do not use more electricity than is necessary, and that the availability of reasonable renewable energy remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. There are some, with the Progress Party at the head, who are trying to make climate policy a scapegoat for the power crisis, when, in reality, it is the market liberalism on the right that has always loved, that has the blame. We now need to find solutions that can reconcile the objective of achieving the climate targets in terms of ensuring predictable power prices. In this respect, SV believes that one of the solutions is to carry out the necessary electrification of Norwegian cap through sea wind – by requiring the oil industry to expand the equivalent amount of sea wind that the electrification will cost, and to pay for it, instead of electricity from land. Will the government consider such a solution to expand sea winds and electrification?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e392	I think the four points were good. Especially the latter is a challenge and opportunity for us, namely access to power. Then sea wind is an important resource. I believe there are opportunities for sea wind to play a greater role in the installation on the base. It cannot replace power from land because we can also experience the situation with sea wind that it does not blow, and a platform cannot experience that it does not come into force. But that there may be a combination of power supply from land with the fact that, in good days, we also get power from sea wind to platforms, I think is an exciting alternative. My impression when we talk to the energy companies and the supplier industry is that this interests them, and that the development we now have, with the CO 2 tax and other agreements we enter into with this industry, can move towards doing important things here for the marine wind industry that we want to rise and stand up in the 2020s and not in the 2030s, as it has been outlined in other plans. So yes, these are the themes we are absolutely willing to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e402	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e408	That's good. What we think is the alternative, is to get the required expansion of a corresponding amount of sea wind. Then you have to have a connection with the grid on land, but a corresponding amount of energy built out at sea. I finally want to ask the Prime Minister about a completely different industry, because in SV we now feel that we are contacted by a lot of farmers who are confused about the situation they are in. Agriculture is an industry with regulated prices, where prices are set in agreement with the country, and where farmers now experience a massive increase in costs due to the free electricity market, which they have no opportunity to charge at increased prices on their own products. It's a despairing situation for many. It takes much of the income for many farmers, who now ask questions about the future of their farm and about their industry. Does the government prepare or plan any immediate action to help farmers now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e415	We have taken some measures for parts of the industries in Norwegian agriculture, including the greenhouse industry. The Minister of Agriculture met with agricultural organisations yesterday. We have good, established processes for this in Norway. It is happening through the institute called the agricultural negotiations, which have clear mechanisms for compensating this sector for such unforeseen situations we are currently in. I know that the Minister of Agriculture has that dialogue, and this is a topic that belongs to what we are going to talk about in addition to the spring with the organisations, in a tidy and open dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e422	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e427	I am glad that the Prime Minister here rejects SV's attempts at plan-making equipment of the current system and instead points out that more force is the obvious answer to the challenges we face, in the short term. We've been talking about sea winds already, where the potential is enormous, hundreds of times today's hydropower production in theoretical potential, and where now the Prime Minister has confirmed that the Central Party's reservations against hybrid cables are something one can evaluate. The question is whether, in the short term, it can be seen that other power generation can also be developed in Norway. This is about upgrading hydropower plants – yes. But in concrete terms, I would like to ask the Prime Minister for sheltered watercourses, especially floodproof protected watercourses. Does the Prime Minister agree that it is possible to exploit parts of the water, without at the expense of the protection values of these watercourses, for power generation, so as to both increase power generation and contribute to the reduction of floods in sheltered watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e432	First of all, I think we should stress here that we should be proud of and call out that we have protected watercourses, that nature has a value, and that over time we have stood up in some rather difficult discussions where Norway has said that here goes the limit. These areas have a lasting value for people, for nature and for future generations that we turn around. I keep it high, and that's what the government's emphasis is on. So it's said that there's new technology that makes it possible to pick up some resources without compromising these natural values, and it's pointing to the potential associated with regulating water, flood hazards, etc. We're completely open to looking at that, and do it in a thorough manner. But I underline again: that is not where the great potential for Norway lies. It lies in energy efficiency, it lies in the wind on land, it is in the wind on the sea, and it is now – and it is exciting – increasingly also for the sun. That's where we have to have the main effort, and then we'll be proud that we've protected watercourses in Norway, and ring about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e439	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e444	I fully agree that we must take care of the protective values that lie in the sheltered watercourses. It's not about putting a footfall in a pipe. What we're talking about here is we're taking advantage of parts of the water potential that lie here. Last year, Statnett estimated that due to increased rainfall caused by climate change, Norwegian water storage plants will increase by 5 TWh only from 2020 to 2030. It also says something about how it will go in floodwaters. It'll calculate more, and there's a need to harness the force. The question is whether the government will not only be open to assessing this, but will take a concrete initiative to put this in place within a reasonable time frame. We fully agree that sea wind has enormous potential, but it's a little bit ahead, even though we all hope it's sooner than later. So this is profitable power generation in sheltered watercourses, which we know is profitable, there are no fragile hybrid cables that you have to investigate in or out of. Here it's easy to get started. Will the government take such an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e449	The representative and I know that it's just to convert the rain to TWh is a little bit complicated. Now there has been a lot of rain in Norway in the days to come. I heard someone saying that one of the good news was that there was going to be rain in the magazines. Well, I think those who are going to meet Gyda feel that there are many challenges to that too. And as I say, I'm open to looking at the evolution we're now getting with more precipitation, and how that water is channeled, and how it can be used for force in some contexts, whether it can be a way to go. I am also concerned about setting a pretty clear limit on what we have of sheltered watercourses, that we are not now considering, as the representative said, a situation that puts it into play. But it is clear that if water, floods and the type of topic that is a challenge for local communities and the environment can also provide an opportunity and can provide power, we should not, of course, say no to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e454	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e459	Now I was a little worried, because there are four large protective plans adopted in the United Kingdom from 1973 to 1993. We have had additional protection in 2005 and 2009, and the last permanent protected watercourse was the Baltic Sea, in 2019. These watercourses are explicitly protected against power generation, that is the very purpose of the protection. Now I hear the Prime Minister opens up to get away from it. Last year we noticed that it was 50 years since the Mardøla action. Then my question becomes: how long does the Prime Minister think that permanent protection, permanent protection to protect watercourses, will actually apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e466	I do not know if the representative heard everything I said, but I said that we should just be proud of and call that we have protected watercourses. So that's what leaders in my party have done before me – written into history by taking quite big discussions and conflicts on it. We're gonna call about that. The representative of Astrup pointed out that it is related to both technology, metrology and climate change issues of how to deal with floods. I am concerned that we cannot conclude here that it provides an immediate TWh capability. But I'm assuming that the decisions we have on protection, we're going to put a lot of emphasis on. And then we get to follow the evolution of what's happening in Norwegian nature, and see if there's any possibility associated with it. It requires thorough review and investigation, and it is not where the great potential for power lies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e474	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e479	Through the pandemic, protecting children and young people and maintaining schools, leisure facilities and cultural services for children has become a clear common political priority. When the foundations in Norway opened again now after Christmas, many municipalities carried out mass testing. It appeared in many municipalities and regions minimally with coronary infection among children, young people and added to the school. For example, in my Valkrins, Sogn and Fjordane, there are municipalities that have done thousands of tests without a single positive test. In the last round of covid measures, the government chose to put the continuing schools in Norway at the red level. It means a great deal of home education, a poorer everyday life for very many young people and a weighty educational offer. Red levels were introduced and are still in place, across the professional recommendations of the school and health authorities, and for strong protests and warnings from both the student organisations and the Barneombode. In spite of the fact that county municipalities throughout the country are warning of the problems of red level and even more digital education. We know that the negative sides of being away from a normal school day over a long time for many young people are large. Youth wounds are a time to bring your whole life. Every day of lost youth without a solid professional basis is one day too much. As the Barneombodet says, there must be professional advice, not fear that governs the disease prevention measures. The introduction of national red level for further education now in this phase of the pandemic is after Left's view flaws and unsustainable. Can the Prime Minister do something for what facts and advice did the government do when a first decided the national red level in the secondary school before Christmas, across professional advice, and then after Christmas doubts about this also after one at school starts can document minimal infection in many municipalities? How does this relate to all the fine words and beautiful promises of giving priority to children and young people in the coronary apathy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e490	Let me start by saying that we prioritise children and young people. If there's something that's important to look at all the time in terms of opportunities for relief to a more normal everyday life, what we can call a continuous green level, it's for children and young people — in school, in everyday life, in sports, in leisure, out and in. It's hard on the government to follow it closely. In the middle of December, we had the prospect of a massive increase in infection. We were perhaps the country in Europe that had the highest starting point for it. Intervention was necessary. As the room and the representative know, this week work on it to look at the possibility of adjustments in the light of experience. The challenge with the schools was that many of the school owners, many of those who are responsible for managing schools, school leaders, teachers, etc., stressed that yellow levels, which were recommended at secondary and secondary schools, in and on their own, are a demanding variant, because students switch between classes, it is more difficult to distinguish. Our wish would have been to have a green level with testing – can it last? – but when we saw that the yellow level was a bad alternative, we chose to use the red level, which is a known grip. It's intriguing, and I'm aware that it's far from an ideal everyday life. It does not mean closed schools, it may mean some digital home education and some group education. This is of the first things we're now looking at whether it's possible to make adjustments in. I myself have had meetings with the school organizations, listened to what comes from the students, listened to the municipalities around, so that we can be as sure as we can. I just want to say that the infection can be in front of us. We have significant challenges. It's not the youngest who gets sickest, but the infection can spread very quickly there, so we also have to take those considerations into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e503	I'm glad that the Prime Minister says that it's going to be solved at the red level in continuing school, at least as I see it, on the top of the list of things that are important to do now. I'm glad to be right, even though I'm not yet able to get the reason why a person went all the way to a national red level, and it didn't, for example, leave it up to the municipalities and the school owners to decide on this according to the local situation. I'm not getting a complete grip on that yet. This is about the everyday life of children and young people under the pandemic, and I want to raise another question. Now we're talking about school, but when it comes to leisure time, we now experience that a lot of kids and young people get into an extra mess because many volunteer organizations – sports and cultural life – at the top of the pandemic problem now get sky-high power bills that are hard to handle for volunteering, which is supposed to help children and young people. It's an extreme situation. The Left, Right and Christian People's Party suggested before Christmas here in Stortinget that we help voluntary teams and organizations with the current calculations in the same way as for households. It voted in favour of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV down. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e510	To start with the introduction to the question: Children and young people's leisure time, sport and the ability to operate as normally as possible before that, we are concerned about. Now that we're going through our entire action register, as I said, priority number one is to see if it's possible to make adjustments here. Then I think I would like to refer to the answer I gave to the representative, Mr Listhaug. With regard to sport and volunteering and how they experience the power situation, there are issues we now have to assess, and we are open to see if it is possible to take action to relieve them in the situation they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e517	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e522	There is no doubt that children and young people have paid a high price both socially and professionally because of closed kindergartens, schools and higher education institutions. I am therefore pleased that the Prime Minister announces that the measures will now be looked at. It is important that children and young people have the greatest possible opportunity to be present at school, and I feel that we agree on that. There is also a clear line to the right that we do not want to overdo the government's disease protection measures. My question is about the plan to close knowledge gaps, follow up on children and young people who have received a strong impression because of closed kindergartens, schools and places of study. Just before Christmas, in comparison with SV, the government cut the appropriations for municipalities, which could provide a better follow-up offer both socially and professionally to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e529	The municipalities are getting closer to 5 billion. In 2022, with this government's budget, they will be able to give more priority to the school. The school's people say they're in a double challenge. One is the pandemic and all the measures there. The second is what the representative Sanner's party and government left behind, which is a major challenge with enough qualified and competent teachers to provide help and follow-up to students with special needs. It's possible to do more with now, with the economy that the municipalities have. The most important thing we can do to help children, including those who have special needs for help, is to get back to normal school life. It's to be able to get through the pandemic normally, live with this virus in a way that allows children to have school, homework and all that belongs to social community in the most normal way possible. That's the target. Then it is important to ensure that counties and municipalities have an economy that allows them to be good school owners, and to ensure that there are enough qualified and competent people to follow up the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e536	Erlend Svardal Bøe – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e541	Today’s legislation does not open up the possibility for a corona certificate to be used as an infectious agent. If it could be used like that, the government has to have a law firm to do that. The government has called for a new use of a corona certificate to help reduce the need for intervention, and in November the government said that a bill should be sent to the hearing, but not when it was to be sent to the hearing. It's going slow. Before Christmas, the Right asked when the bill would come to the hearing, so that we could have a public debate on the use of a corona certificate. The response from the Minister of Health and Health before Christmas was that the bill would be sent to the hearing in the new year, but it has still not happened. My question to the Prime Minister is: When will the government send the bill for a new use of Korona Certificate at the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e548	Let me start by saying that it's not a advice from the authorities to introduce a corona certificate now. What is not slow – to use the representative’s concept; I do not agree that the procedure is slow – is the omicron variant. It has come and changed a lot of game rules about how the infection occurs in Norwegian society, how the vaccine protects, and how such a certificate might provide you with credible protection. Is it protection to have a certificate showing one or two doses? Is it enough protection to have three doses when we know that people with vaccines are infected? We need to go into these questions more thoroughly. We still ask questions to the department and have dialogue with it. We don't rule out that this can be an active tool, but as the situation is today, I can say that this is not something we're going to launch this week. There needs to be more thorough discussion, and some more reviews are needed to see if there is a proper tool in today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e556	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e561	Norway produces more power than we use ourselves, but the stock exchange trade by force nevertheless ensures that we import sky-high prices from countries further south. When Støre is talking about increasing the production of power, it would be thought that we have a power crisis. But we don't lack power. We exported over 10 pst. of our production last year. What affects Norway is not a power crisis. It's a price crisis because Norwegian hydropower is being traded on an exchange that connects us with markets in countries that have much higher energy prices than us. When English people are willing to pay up to 400 cents per kilowatt hour for electricity it costs 10 cents to produce in Norway, the message to Norwegian customers is from the power companies: if you want this power, you have to pay what the power costs, and right now that price is 400 cents per kilowatt hour. For each new foreign table being built, the ability of the stock exchange system to import these foreign prices to Norway is also increasing. In the Question Time on December 8th, I would like answers from Støre on whether he has a political will for both regulation and power management. Historically, the Labour Party has had that will. This is the way the country was built, with a reasonable flow from its hydropower, which is now at risk of prices up to NOK 5 per kilowatt hour in a country where it costs between 5 and 15 cents to produce it per kilowatt hour. The answer given to me has aroused a certain interest and attention – not only that Støre is ringing around force liberalism, but also that he said that cooperation that binds Europe and the Nordics together in a power market will serve Norway over time. The question is, What calculations does Støre base this claim on the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e572	Calculations about the future can be made because of predictions and predictions. Then there's a pretty big interest in calculating the future by seeing what the past has shown. How has Norway been doing as a country for the last 10-30 years with the energy system we've had? There has not been a very large increase in production, but we have still kept low prices, which have served households and industry. I'm not open to say that what we've learned between let's say September and now, hits a line across all that experience. I don't think it's the right policy, the representative of Moxnes, who has a policy that won't build more wind either on land or at sea, who doesn't have a credible policy for how to manage to produce more power in Norway in the years that come for new industry, for new activity, and who has a recipe that goes on that we cut the ties to the countries that are around us. Since the 1950s, we have had relations with the countries around us, which serve us mainly, but which now presents us with some challenges when Europe and Norway are in the situation we are in. That is why we are going to review those agreements, see what legislation it is, what freedom of action it gives us. But that's the way it is now – where we have water storage fillings below the normal, at a very low level – that at times of the day we import power that makes it possible for us to meet our needs. We're going to review those agreements, but I know that the representative of Moxnes is against force exchange with other countries. I think that in sum it has served Norway, but now there are effects of this that we need to review, and we need, as a long strategy, to produce more power in Norway. Then we must be willing to take those elections, not push them and say no to them, as the representative of the Moxnes Party has repeatedly done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e581	So there were no facts about what the claim is based on, except looking at the past. Then it's noted. Interestingly, Støre must resort to strawman argumentation to defend his own liberalism. Red does not go in to cut the cables. We have called for the will to regulate power exports, like NHO and LO. That the NHO is to the left of the Støre in this matter, is interesting, not least too many voters, I think. We want a government that takes strategic action to ensure Norway's most important lasting competitive advantage for the future. Then we will not avoid regulating both price and export. There will not be a single ear smaller in price imports from Europe if Støre puts all Norway’s protected watercourses into pipes. That's why I ask again: How can Støre claim that we will serve this liberalism in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e592	‘Stranger’s argumentation’, ‘served by this liberalism’ — it is a very broad and quite unprecise concept. It is, as I say, political decisions on the basis of which we are building up force. It is political decisions that have been taken in relation to the transfers we have between countries. It's international agreements. We go through them to see if it gives freedom of action, if it gives Norway the advantage of making changes to them. I'm not drawing any conclusions about it, but I'm going to come back to the fact that what Norway will need in the years to come is to produce more power. It will be wind on land, wind at sea, sun, energy efficiency and having a good and tidy regime in order to exchange with other countries, so that we can fill Norway when we have little access to power in our country. We're not going to put a line over it, but we're going to go through it and see how this force export works, and what possibilities it can give us. It is too early to draw a conclusion on how this should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e597	There will be follow-up questions – Bears Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e602	I thank you for your answer. In fact, in terms of the turnover of power, it is market liberalist. You can be for or against. The NHO now wants more governance because it is perhaps a more important resource for our country – at least more strategically – than bananas are. At least that's NHO's view of the matter. You can choose to defend this, but it's a political choice. There has been a development at Støre regarding the view of the contracts. Before Christmas, the answer to the question of the agreements was that looking at them would be to break them. It is well understood that today's agreements must not be eternal; they must not bind up all future governments and all future magnifications. It is possible for Norway to conclude new and different agreements with these countries that serve both population and industry better than the provisions we see now. When will the government start the review of the existing power-exchange agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e611	Now we're going to go into that and look at it, but if you're going to change an agreement – and this is a disagreement between the representative from Red and me, I think – you don't get all the benefits you want, and then the counterparty has to give it to you without getting anything back. It must also be assessed. These agreements have been concluded between two parties, they were balanced when they were concluded. Of course, they are not eternal — they must be evaluated. But you have to have a pretty good argument for a change in them, a cancellation of them, giving something that serves Norway over time. This is the responsibility we have as a government: it must be done in a thorough manner. The belief that changing the agreements, canceling them and saying that Norway will now have unilateral benefits does not simply answer the challenges that Norway is facing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e616	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e621	I think that both the NHO, the LO and the Red agree with Mr Støre – that this should be done in a responsible way, that it is of course in order to safeguard our interests, and that renegotiation is necessary. What we see with the last cables that have been built – North Sea Link and NordLink to Germany – is that we have got an extremely much larger export capacity than we had before. What was of force exchange from the 1960s until quite recently was of completely different dimensions than what we've been given only in the last year. In such a situation, power liberalism is a problem for the country’s power-intensive industry as of today, but also in order to be able to establish a new green industry on Norwegian soil. We have seen that it is compensated for by households. We are for that, and we want to increase it. But the industry is a slightly different question. How will Støre ensure that industry too will be able to obtain a fair price in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e628	I record that much of the industry has concluded long-term contracts. I think these are conclusions they now have to draw when they are going to assess the situation they are today. Those who have done so do have a slightly better situation than the companies that buy on the spot price market. How are we going to ensure that we get a continued advantage with low prices, compared to other countries? I have not seen a good analysis that stopping cooperation with other countries on the exchange of power gives the power that Norway needs in the years to come. We're going to review how those agreements work. We're going to work on that beyond spring, but I'm going to get back to it. A basic response for Norway, with the needs and opportunities we have, is to produce more renewable energy in Norway. Then we must be willing to do so: wind on land, wind on the sea, sun, energy efficiency. These elections are skipping over the representative from Red. He'll have to assess it. I believe that it is such a broad approach that we need both to regain power and to exploit opportunities for industry and households.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e636	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e641	Protection by nature is a pretty straightforward and understandable thing. It's about preserving the nature we've had, as it is – even in the future. That is what people think they hear when they hear that this hall has protected a natural area. However, representatives of the government have created a great deal of uncertainty about protection in fact is protection, by opening up a discussion about protected watercourses should also be expanded, i.e. if protection is really just a waiting room for new power development. The reason why the Prime Minister has had so many questions about it now is, of course, that many people in Norway who are happy in nature and who are happy in sheltered watercourses wonder what it really meant when the Storting told them that their watercourses had been protected. The consequence of the discussion opened up by government representatives is that this morning the Progress Party presented proposals for development in sheltered watercourses. Verdal municipality has ordered an opportunity study on the protected Verdalselva. Force commanders around the country rub themselves in their hands and are to go loose on protected nature. The consequence of this is that instead of working for new advances in nature and environmental protection and climate work – people who are happy in their river and happy in their nature – they are staying on new battles to defend already protected nature. So the question is: Will the Prime Minister once and for all, too well, put the debate on power development in protected watercourses dead and now clearly confirm that protected watercourses are protected and not to be extended?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e648	I replied to representatives here earlier, commenting on the fact that we should be proud that we have protected watercourses, that is part of our modern history. It preserves something that is genuine and real in Norway, and that we are going to take good care of. In the Hurdal platform we announced that the government would increase Norwegian hydropower production, among others. by facilitating improved maintenance, upgrade and renewal of existing hydropower plants. It's within a framework I think is quite uncontroversial. So the Stortinget has decided that watercourse protection should be essentially fixed, I am in favour, and that power development can be assessed in cases where flood suppression is the purpose. It was a theme we were on in a previous round. But the protection values here shouldn't be put into play, I'm going to take that into account. Here we have to be able to balance these considerations. We're going to get more rain, more troubled weather, more flood. This is about meteorology, climate change. I think we should be able to handle that without risking the important protection values. The nature of Norwegian watercourses is diverse, unique and important to preserve, and the protection plan for watercourses should ensure that we get a well-representative cut-out of Norwegian watercourse nature protected. Watercourses are primarily protected against power build-up, but should also be taken into account for other interventions. The discussion about being able to use the resources associated with floods in a way that could give power, I think we should be able to assess. But I say as I said to the representative of Astrup: it is not this that in a great deal is the possibility of new renewable power in Norway – it comes within the wind, it comes within the sun, and it comes not least within the sea window construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e657	The problem with the Prime Minister’s answer is that he does not answer clearly that protected watercourses are protected. He answers by far the same way as the representative Astrup, that by ignoring biology and physics you can draw energy out of rivers without affecting the rivers. The point of protection is that it's affecting the rivers by taking power out of them, that's what you have to avoid. For this reason, it is problematic for all who are happy in Norwegian nature that the Prime Minister cannot give a completely unambiguous answer that protected rivers should not be built for power purposes. I think the Prime Minister can be sure that this question is going to get very many more times by people in his own party and otherwise in the country: what does it really mean to open up to gentle force development, flood suppression, etc. in sheltered watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e664	I think I'm going to do this quite briefly: the watercourse protection is going to be fixed. Flooding and flood suppression technologies are also lifted as an opportunity for power, but then the protection values shall not be wasted. I'm going to base this on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e669	There will be follow-up questions – Ola Elvestuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e674	I assume that protected watercourses are protected from power expansion. That's what the purpose is, and it has to change if you want to change it. Protection is important, and we need more protection. In the spring, a new Convention on Biological Diversity will be negotiated in Kunming, and hopefully we will also have an agreement in nature that is as strong as the Paris Agreement. In connection with this work, Norway — as did the previous government — has joined the High-Ambition Coalition for Nature and People. It is led by Costa Rica and France. A basis for participating is the commitment of the Member States to protection by land and sea of 30 p.m. by 2030. More than 75 countries have now joined. What does the government do to follow up that commitment, by 30 pst. protection at sea and land by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e681	We're going to participate in Kunming. The Minister for Climate and Environment, who is sitting here, has, in many respects, underlined that the natural crisis is a crisis parallel to the climate crisis, and that is the basis of the government. It's also Norwegian tradition that when we think about protection, we think that we're going to use nature in a sustainable way. In some other countries, protection is in a way a kind of fence/framework, and there is nothing happening. We're skeptical about that, whether it's at sea or to land. Of course, we should follow our obligations. We're also going to be propelling towards Kunming, and we're going to do it in a way that's based on Norwegian experience. We have nature both at land and at sea that is unique, but that also gives us a basis for talking about this in a way that allows us to take leadership roles not only when we have climate discussions, but also when we're going to discuss nature, as against Kunming.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e690	Let's move on to the next main question. In recent times, we have witnessed a strong increase in Russian aggression in and at the border with Ukraine, with the deployment of a significant number of fighting forces and capabilities. The aggression is totally unprovoked and is a serious undermining of European security. Some of Putin’s motivation seems to be to try to force guarantees from NATO that Ukraine or other countries in Russia’s neighbourhoods should not be able to become members of NATO, or that NATO should restrict how the alliance can defend itself. Another motivation seems to be the domestic political situation in Russia, with a sluggish economy and domestic protests as two of the examples. It is totally inappropriate for NATO to provide such guarantees, and it is a fundamental principle that each country should be able to choose its own security policy relationship, and Norway must continue to support Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. We are in a very serious security policy situation, and Russia's actions in recent years have clearly shown that they are willing to use military power against neighbouring countries. This week there are meetings in NATO between the United States and Russia and the OSCE, and just now the NATO-Russia Council meets for the first time in two and a half years. These are very important meetings in order to contribute to a diplomatic solution to the conflict, but also to make it clear that an attack on Ukraine will have major consequences for Russia. Both NATO and the United States have said that arms control is also relevant discussion themes with NATO. What is the Prime Minister's assessment of the situation now and the possibility of real descalement through diplomatic work in progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e705	There is a lot of the description to the representative that I can join. I have said since before Christmas that this is perhaps the most serious security policy situation we have had in Europe since the end of the Cold War. The fact that there are over 100,000 soldiers marched up the border with Ukraine, very heavy material, rhetoric that is moving towards possible military use of power – it's coincident with war, and it's very serious. Norway has clearly stated this, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has marked it in many contexts – me too. If we're going to look at something that can point in the right direction on this day, it's that now there's conversations that seem to be going on, and not that kind of use of power. I think we need to see hour by hour, day by day, in order to have conversations and negotiations with such a military accumulation as this is, is not in a favorable climate. But what I think is right to go in the direction of reducing the level of tension is – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in the last two to three days – to start relevant disarmament negotiations. There's been too little of that in Europe. There are deployments of short-range rockets close on land, and there is shorter alert time. I think the Foreign Minister said it well today: if we think back to the agreement between Reagan and Gorbachev, who wanted to abolish these weapons, it was among other things. to provide greater security. It was a different time, but it is still relevant. The second is relevant, confidence-building measures, and they must apply both ways. There must be something that two parties are involved in. Disarmament and confidence-building measures must be bilateral and mutual. So if the talks between Russia and the United States that took place earlier this week are going to continue, get going, that's good. However, they cannot be happening at all on land that is being affected. If you're going to be mentioned, you're going to have to be present. It's an important principle. And the right to choose their own security, as Norway did in 1949, is a fundamental democratic right in an enlightened modern society, and that is something we must also call for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e714	How Russia will focus on the different aspects of the conversation – either requiring NATO guarantees or participating in disarmament talks – can also provide an indication of the possibility of solving this with diplomatic instruments. But the United States is now issuing strong financial sanctions against Russia, and Denmark has strengthened its military preparedness in the Baltic States. Norway already has forces in Enhanced Forward Presence, and we are also in Cooperative Deployment with the Americans. No decisions have been made here, but there is also a carrier group in readiness. What possible reaction does the Prime Minister think would be relevant if the talks did not lead and Russia re-attack Ukraine, and how does Norway address the possible strengthening of NATO military presence in the East as one of several possible responses?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e722	I don't think it's right to shoot. Norway participates in NATO forces in a way that is predictable and per capita more than many other countries — appreciated — both by land and by sea. Then we're NATO's eyes and ears in the north. We're following what's happening there, and there's no record of increased activity levels that give us any special concern. But there's a high level of activity in these areas of accumulation, and we're going to follow it. So the message is that if anyone resorts to military use of power in order to gain rights in Europe, reactions must be met, and that signal also sends Norway. It has consequences for the person who would do something like that, and I think that message is very clearly communicated to Russia. We are going to be together with our allies, our Nordic and European partners in implementing it in a solidarity and good way if that is to happen, and then we have to do everything we can to prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e731	There will be follow-up questions – Ine Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e736	The Hurdal Platform states that the government will ‘strengthen the dialogue on foreign and security policy in the north and establish joint meeting places to discuss security policy challenges’. This is a line that – which I've been in this room before – has created some questions among our allies. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: which meeting places does he see, who will attend, and what will be discussed? And is this still the same thing in the light of the new situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e741	I have faith that neighbors talk, I have faith that neighbors use the forums they have, I have faith that they can also look for new ways to talk. Norway and Russia are neighbours. We meet them bilaterally in a good deal of context. Much of it has been stepped down in recent years, partly on the watch of the representative, for reasons related to the situation after Crimea and a cooler climate. We have Barents context, we have arctic context, and we have some other thematic contexts. I have been concerned that Norway and Russia as coastal states have common challenges related to the development of the Arctic and the Barents Sea, related to energy, climate change and fisheries. Here we have experience from conversations with Russia. I believe that this is a basis for Norway to take those discussions further — when opportunities arise. Then, where possible, we must deepen our cooperation within the Arctic Council. Now it is a Russian Presidency to take over from Norway when that time comes. I have not met any criticism from allies that we have channels of conversation against Russia. On the contrary, it is one of the advantages Norway has — that we talk to them, understand them and can bring it with us into the alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e748	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e753	It is true that the Prime Minister finally came to the conclusion that the reason for the loss of contact after 2014 is Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea. We have that in common with all other NATO countries and all other European countries, and also with countries elsewhere in the world. But what I asked was neither climate nor energy nor Arctic advice, but the point of the Hurdal platform is that we should discuss security policy challenges. Nor was the Prime Minister able to respond to who will be involved, what to discuss, what meeting places are involved, and whether this is still relevant in the light of the new situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e760	It is very relevant in the light of the new security policy situation, and if we can use opportunities to help us get the voltage level down, that we start disarmament, that we can get back on track with confident measures, that we can get people-to-people cooperation going, then it's positive. It does not happen unconditionally, it happens based on developments that are in Russia and in relations with Russia. But I think – a little in contrast to the representative, I think – that cutting down on dialogue in a situation where there is tension, one should think thoroughly through. Our neighbours Finland have a broader contact network towards Russia at a high political level, although they are part of European sanctions against Russia – because they are neighbours. Neighbors should and must talk. Using reduced contact as a reaction agent has the side to say that when you start talking again, it looks like a concession. So I think you're going to use the forums you have, you're going to look at the possibilities that are, to say clearly from where we stand, so that we can live up to what is Norwegian policy, predictability, long-termity and recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e767	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e781	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question I, from the representative of Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and District Affairs, who is directly responsible. The question has been moved and answered, at the request of the Minister for Local and District Affairs, before question 7, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 4, from the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been withdrawn. Question 6, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy who is directing him. Question 9, from the representative Hege Bae Nyholt to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e796	Question 1 has been moved and answered later. We are therefore going to question 2, from the representative, Injerd Schou, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e804	‘The Government of Solberg stepped up its support for the opposition and civil society in Belarus significantly, inter alia in order to contribute to the protection of human rights. The regime is increasingly calling down demonstrators and human rights defenders, and it has become increasingly difficult to get money into the country to support them. In view of the situation in Belarus, how does the government work to support civil society and support the opposition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e811	I would like to thank the representative for the question, because she is quite right that the situation of human rights defenders in Belarus is getting worse. We are facing an authoritarian, brutal regime that wants to crush all critical voices. There are evidences of gross human rights violations on the part of the regime. The authorities have carried out legal proceedings that have resulted in long prison sentences for opposition agents, journalists and human rights defenders, without adequate safeguards for the principles of the rule of law and the legal certainty of individuals. Most human rights activists and regime critics are now in prison or exile. We have a consistent and clear view of developments in Belarus, and as the government of Solberg did, we support the work of democracy and human rights. But as the representative points out, it has become increasingly difficult for human rights organisations to operate in Belarus. A large number of non-governmental organisations have been compulsorily dissolved, including: the Belarusian Helsinki Committee. The management of another organisation, Viasna, an important partner for Norwegian human rights organisations, is also in prison. We are in close contact with Norwegian human rights organisations. These now look at the possibility of being more able to help Belarusian human rights defenders beyond the borders of the country. We will continue to support this work and take advantage of the opportunities that exist. I had a video meeting with Svetlana Tsikhanovskaya before Christmas. She works for a free and democratic Belarus that respects human rights, in stark contrast to the Lukashenko regime. I would like to express my full support for the work of the democratic movement. We are closely coordinated with our European partners. We have joined all the EU sanctions against Belarus, and together we will continue to work towards democratic development in Belarus. We will continue to support the movement of democracy and the work on human rights, even though some of the top activists are either abroad or now in prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e824	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for your answer. I thought I would follow up on the sanctions regime. Norway is following the EU sanctions regime against Belarus, and these sanctions have been stepped up, by December last year at the latest, 2021. Similarly, Bloomberg could write at the end of last year that trade between the EU and Belarus almost doubled in 2021. Is the Foreign Minister optimistic that the sanctions Norway will follow will have the desired effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e831	It is important to meet this type of human rights violation with direct penalties. Many of the sanctions targeting Belarus are linked to individuals. This is how a good part of the new sanctions have been designed in recent years. There will always be a discussion about whether the sanctions are reasonable, and we need to have a continuous discussion about that. What is important for Norway is that, in matters relating to Belarus, we have been involved in coordinating with the EU, so that there is a clear response from the Norwegian side. We want to work through the sanctions regime, and get it effective, but at the same time we want to work through Norwegian companies to comply with OECD and UN principles on responsible business. The new Transparency Act, which will enter into force in July of this year, will require Norwegian businesses to carry out due diligence assessments relating to human rights and also to responsible employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e840	Thank you for your answer. I thought I would follow up with a question that goes on another company, for this week Yara announced that they would phase out their cooperation with Belaruskali. Potassium is part of fertiliser production and thus has an impact on global food safety. One concern when Yara withdraws is that other actors, such as China and Russia, gain greater control of this commodity. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share this concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e853	This concern was probably also the basis for Yara taking a long time to make the decision, and because different human rights groups have given different advice in this regard. Because we're vulnerable to deliveries, as the representative is inside. What we've been busy about all along is that it's up to Yara to take a stand for her further involvement in Belarus. The state cannot instruct the company, and I take Yara's decision to terminate his involvement in Belarus for information. Norwegian authorities expect all companies to ensure that human rights and employee rights are respected, and so does Yara.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e863	The government has announced a plan to the Stortinget for a new surface vessel in the Maritime Defense. My question to the Minister is: ‘When will the Government present the investigation on the future structure of ships in the Maritime Defence, and will the investigation be published as a whole?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e870	The government will come back to Stortinget with assessments related to the marine surface structure device during 2022, in line with Prop. 14 S for 2020-2021, the long-term defence sector plan and in line with the Hurdal platform. The new Marine surface structure, which is to replace the frigates and corvettes, must be part of a network of joint operating sensors, weapon systems and decision-making systems. The future network of defence resources in all domains shall give the greatest possible power and impact, as well as being able to operate with allies. The government’s priorities will also be based on the security policy needs of Norway and the defence’s operational needs in different scenarios. Of course, the basis for the investigation which will be used and underpinned by assessments related to the device of the surface structure, and which have not been graduated, will be considered for publication in the usual manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e879	Thank you for a thorough answer. In an answer to a previous written question from me to the Minister, the Minister confirmed that Norway, through the European Defence Fund, EDF, will participate in a project related to the new standardised NATO surface vessel. My question is: why is such a project included through EDF before it has been concluded and completed its own plan for new surface vessels?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e886	I don't see any contrast between working on a new structure for our own surface vessel while participating in a common concept within NATO. On the contrary, I also see opportunities for the Norwegian industry, the Norwegian maritime industry, which needs missions to be able to participate and qualify for assignments that also address the needs of other countries, other countries' ship needs, within this standardised concept. So I can hardly believe that there should be any disagreement between the representative of the Rivers and the government at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e891	No, there is no reason for disagreement, this is more of an investigative question. Very well known, there is also a Norwegian national project to standardise our own vessels. The project in NATO is also a project for standardising vessels – over a NATO train. So my simple question – and that’s not a question of trying to construct a disagreement between me and the minister – is: The standardisation of Norwegian vessels on the Norwegian side, and the work that is now taking place through EDF, is it co-ordinated and coordinated, or is there two separate tracks?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e896	That's a very good question. It is precisely in a interconnected track and through interconnection, as far as possible, it is also possible to expand the possibilities of Norwegian maritime industry in addition to national needs, such as the Norwegian industry, for example. be able to participate more fully in European competition. Now this work has come relatively short at NATO level. It's a program that's in place, where I don't – it's to be admitted – have detailed knowledge about exactly where you are. But for me, it's a goal to be as interconnected as possible, so that Norwegian maritime industry can also participate in greater competition than just the national vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e913	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e921	‘From December 2023 new emission requirements for Norwegian salmon slaughterhouses will be introduced as a result of the EU setting new emission limits [[BAT-AEL]] Can the Council of State do something about how the government will handle the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e928	I thank you for the question. It is correctly described that the Industrial Emissions Directive lays down new emission requirements that also apply to Norwegian salmon slaughterhouses, as they apply to, for example. brewery, dairies and the meat industry. These requirements are more stringent than they were in the past, and it is a bit in the objective of the Industrial Emissions Directive that, with new knowledge and new technologies, more stringent requirements for emissions to the environment and, of course, also for HMS requirements should be introduced. These are the rules that became known when they were adopted at the end of 2019, more specifically on 4 December 2019, and they will only be fulfilled on 4 December 2023, i.e. four years later. The aim was precisely to provide a transitional period, to provide an opportunity to invest in new clean-up solutions and technologies. Then, with the support of the Directorate-General for the Environment, it is the State that will help and also ensure that this is achieved. This is a rule that is logical, which Norway supports, and we are aware of, and the Environment Directorate is well aware that for some salmon slaughterhouses it may seem demanding to meet these criteria at the time. There is then a room for individual exemptions if they are well-founded, and they need to be promoted and firmly justified to the government manager, both in terms of cost and specific challenges, and if one considers that the standard is being met by other means. It can only be individual exceptions – and limited in time – until you get this right, there is no room for a classy industry exemption from this. I remember that these are rules that have now been known for two years, but when this occurs, for a total of four years, and that's precisely because you're going to have time to adapt. So I think we're going to take over – and that's important – what the representative points out, that the jump up to reach these standards is probably bigger for salmon bacteria than it is. in the case of slaughterhouses on land or in breweries, because the standard in Norway has been more similar to what is now available throughout the EEA territory. But that's the way it is. If it is possible to have a constructive dialogue with the industry on how to solve this, I would like to contribute to it, but these are requirements that apply to the whole EEA area. This applies to the whole EEA area both because we have some common environmental obligations to achieve, and because there should be equal conditions, as we know, for the whole area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e943	The Government's response is based on a statement that compliance with these standards is technically and factually possible. If it turns out not to be the case and one cannot apply for an exceptional exemption, as the Council of State says, what will the government do then – if it is not possible to meet these requirements in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e948	Then I have to return that the premise for that question is that it may not be possible. I'm not familiar with it, I'm familiar with it being demanding. Then I understand that it can be demanding either because the technology is expensive, or that it is difficult to get in place in time, or both at the same time. There may be an argument that can be applied to the pollution authority, which in this case will be the State administrator, in the individual case. But there can be no class exemption or industry exemption from these rules. The rules are there to be fulfilled, and then of course you have to look at this in individual cases, if that is how it should be. I want to remind you again that this is not exactly a news of the day, this has been known for several years, and you still have almost two years to try to put the cleaning technology in place. Some of the other industries I mentioned have it, or think it's achievable, so it's especially for the salmon bacteria, which may have I don't want to say lower standards, but at least lower demands on themselves than they get now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e955	The background to my question is that I have been contacted by the industry, which says that it is actually not possible to achieve these requirements, nor for salmon slaughter that is currently under construction, where an investment of more than 600 million is being discussed. kr. That's the background to my question, but I'm interpreting it so that the Council of State thinks this is possible to do in fact and technically.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e960	Even though I'm a state councillor, I'm not going to claim to be an expert on salmon slaughterhouses and I'd like to be more involved in it. I understand that there has been a dialogue over time with the Environment Directorate, which is the agency that manages this, and there has been feedback that at least for some people it is demanding, as I have said, so I recognize it. But with increasing knowledge of the environment on the one hand, and with the development of technology on the other, this is going to be more stringent in all sectors in the future. It follows from the Industrial Emissions Directive. The basic principle in Norway is that pollution is prohibited and that the polluter must pay in order not to contaminate. Then you have to set standards for what it means in practice. There is room for dialogue on specific derogations where specific justification exists, but these rules need to be implemented gradually, and a great deal of technology is being developed precisely because demands are being made. We're going to have to assume that this is going to happen in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e972	This question, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e977	‘In the Stortinges Question Time on Wednesday 5 January, the Minister for Climate and Environment, among other things, asserted that ‘it is beyond doubt that electrifying the socket has an effect on the climate’. Can the Council of State document the global climate impact of electrifying Norwegian cap and provide the latest up-to-date estimate of cost per tonne of reduced national CO 2 emissions due to the electrification of the cap with electricity from land?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e987	In Norway, oil and gas are produced efficiently and with low emissions. Emissions are on their way down. In the context of the action package Stortinget, in the spring of 2020, a broad majority of the government parties – as well as the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party – asked the government, together with the industry, to present a plan to reduce the emissions of oil and gas production on Norwegian pst by 50 pst. by 2030. The government is continuing this work. Platforms, production ships and landing facilities need secure access to energy. Variable renewable energy such as sea wind cannot deliver it today. As a result, force from countries is currently absolutely necessary to reduce emissions. Many fields on Norwegian pedestal will be operated in full or in part by land by 2030. The main means of reducing emissions on Norwegian cap is the ETS and the CO 2 tax. The cost of greenhouse gas emissions in the petroleum sector is significantly higher than in most other sectors. This gives companies strong self-interest in reducing their emissions. Power from land involves large investments. The costs and potential for emission reductions vary from device to device and from field to field. In 2020, the Directorate-General for Oil Management calculated the early planning action costs from just under NOK 1000 to up to NOK 8000 per tonne of CO 2 reduced. What is clear is that the use of shore-based power on platforms produces lower emissions from these. It will also deliver lower emissions within Norway’s borders, and it will help us achieve our climate targets. The petroleum sector is covered by the European greenhouse gas emission allowance system. Reduced emissions in quota-related activities in Norway, including on Norwegian pedestal, result in a smaller need for allowances in Norway. This will significantly release allowances for use in other activities within the allowance system. Furthermore, the gas released from energy production in the fields will be exported and the fields will demand electricity from the power grid in Norway. Using power instead of gas on a platform will therefore have a marginal impact on supply and demand in energy markets, but it has not been said that electrification of platforms has no climate impact. Firstly, national measures in the ETS sector can contribute to lower emissions in Europe and globally through the EU’s so-called erasure mechanism. The mechanism means that a given share of the quota surplus in the quota market is cancelled if the quota surplus exceeds a certain level. National measures leading to an increase in the quota surplus may thus contribute to the deletion of more allowances in the EU deletion mechanism. The effect must be expected to be limited. Secondly, it is important to remember that the number of allowances in the quota system has been set politically. Much of the technology needed to bring the emission allowances to zero is still immature. It has not been given that the price signal of the allowance system will be sufficient to trigger all the necessary technological developments. Extraction within the allowance system may increase the likelihood that the quota system will be politically tightened up in line with adopted plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1012	Now we heard the council say that until 2030 there must be electricity from land electrifying the socket. We've also seen in the media that the NVE manager has been skeptical about doing this, because it's about maybe as much as 10 pst. power generation in Norway, which must be used to electrify the socket, in a situation where there is a power price crisis in Norway. The assumption was that this year it might cost NOK 1200 per household for extra costs to electrify the base. NVE is concerned, simply because there is not enough power to do it. The question to the government council is: is it defensive to send out maybe as much as 10 pst? of the current we need on land, also in order to keep low electricity prices, in a situation where there is a critical power crisis in Norway, for most people and for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1017	I am concerned that we should have a stable framework for the industry that is going on on the base. It is important for industry, and it is also important for the political environment that we have a stable framework. Some of those already connected to the network are, for example: Troll B and C, Oseberg field area and Oseberg south. There will be a reduction of 450 000 tonnes of CO 2 per year on Troll B and C and approximately 320000 tonnes of CO 2 in the Oseberg field and Oseberg south. They've got a connection to the web, and it's important that we have predictability for that. They've got a connection on terms and conditions. This means that, among other things: may be disconnected by maintenance or network failures. The reason why they tolerate it is that these are installations that also have a gas turbine, and thus can ensure a stable power supply. The alternative benefits need to be considered societally, but the climate impacts are despondent.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1028	I didn't get a complete answer as to whether there was enough power in Norway to do it. We are now seeing sky-high prices of power with a background in the lack of power in Europe. It's driving the gas price, which makes us get sky-high power prices in Norway. In addition, there is a very low filling level in the magazine – only 57 pst. Possible It is critical for Norwegian industry, which also needs the strength to get the lowest possible prices. The amount of power in Norway also depends on the power prices in the future, so still my question is: Is it defensive to go against the advice of the NVE, who asks questions as to whether it is possible to send 10 pst at all. out of our current on the socket when the gas is sent to Europe and used in gas power stations down there? It seems quite special when we're in such a power crisis. Is it defensive to send so much power to the platforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1033	We have a huge surplus of power in Norway, about 20 TWh. The need for power will increase because we electrify all parts of our society, and we have climate targets that cover all sectors. This means that all industries should in any case descend in terms of emissions. We're going to go to net zero in 2050, and all parts of our society are going to be electrified. Potentially, any increase in consumption will also result in a potential price increase if you do not come up with network expansions. Today, as I said, we still have a surplus of power in Norway. It's not a power crisis as such. We have a price crisis in Norway as of today. The problem in some places is transmission capacity. We have to expand our web so that we get the power to where we need it, and that's one of the problems that's at the top of my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1038	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1046	‘The government will use hundreds of millions of dollars to cover 100 pst. the costs of county councils that want to liquidate, disintegrate, stop integration processes and return to such things in the past. Will the government prepare the corresponding economic situation for new county municipalities that, rather than reverse, will develop, integrate more closely and transform into a new, green future together – as is the case with the Western County Municipality with the new strategic plan for the Green Region of the West?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1053	Former rapporteur, now the representative of big business, Bjørlo has long been a strong and clear voice in the debate on regional challenges, not least related to all the opportunities that lie around the country, including a necessary green shift. The Green region Western Europe cooperation project shows just the space available for many business and innovation projects with potential for jobs, value creation, increased exports and at the same time emission reductions. I share this commitment, and I think we quickly agree on a desire to support this kind of forward-looking work. At the same time, with the premise that underlies the question, I must be allowed to express some wonder at how it has gone with the old People's Party Left. The reason why we're in a process of possible dissolution of some merged state municipalities is that the Solberg government, with its strong influence on the Left, chose to use coercion against local democracy. It was not believed that the county councils themselves could assess what were functional regional units with legitimacy, that they themselves could assess the sustainability of their own activities. I think I can say that the government would have liked to have avoided spending time and resources on this process, but we are taking local and regional democracy seriously. I am also quite certain that the coerced county councils themselves would have liked to have used the resources for other things. My impression is that all municipalities would like to make the most of the opportunities available in their own region. A well-functioning government at regional level is important, and the government wants to strengthen the county as a community developer. In the budget for this year, the free income of counties has been increased by 900 million. kr – 0,5 br. kr more than the Solberg Government's draft budget. It helps to strengthen the basis for the provision of services and to provide the county councils with muscles for partnership, regional social development and value creation organisation. These are the factors pointed out in the Green region of Western Europe. Among several other important measures, I believe it is particularly important to strengthen the industrial tool. As a result, several measures within the Ministry of Economic Affairs were reinforced by the additional number of the State budget. In the area of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, there were proposals for many cuts in the organisation of business development and innovation. The government prioritised strengthening Innovation Norway with a new 100 million budget. to green investment in the rural policy area, targeting major investment projects in a sustainable and circular economy. The government has high ambitions for the development role of county councils and for the organisation of green value creation throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1066	I thank you for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State is very clear in its backing to the Western states and the bet on the Greenland region of Westland. There is something, however, about the meaning of words and political signals. I have to say that I'm amazed at the enormous enthusiasm and how it skips with the promise of money to those who want to split up and reverse. In other contexts, where there is a wish on the table from a state or municipality, the government is talking about something that needs to be assessed in a larger context. When it comes to the fragmentation of the state, it's straight ahead, one cheers and promises 100 pst. Compensation, here the money will come no matter what it costs. Does the Council of State see the dilemma of all those who are in need of change, such as Westland, who are actually a voluntary coalition? Can the government, for example, think to be equally enthusiastic about this, compared to all the time a user promises 100 pst. [[President clubs]] coverage of those who want to split up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1073	We have to stay within time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1078	I tried as best I could in my post just to show that the government has credit for all the work that is going on around the country, among other things. related to county councils, in terms of value creation and innovation organisation – not least in the context of the green shift. That is why it was also a priority in the supplementary number of the State budget — in the short time we had — to put in more bets for that purpose. At the same time, I would say that it has been necessary to clean up after the processes that were there from the previous government, where, therefore, it was decided to force against local democracy. We take that seriously, and that's why we want to stand up for the county councils that are coerced and that want to split up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1085	I note that the Council of State is still talking a lot about all the cases of forced use, and how important it is to spend time on it. But we're going to remember that the large majority of municipal mergers and several county mergers are voluntary. It's who I'm after; how will a back up and support them in the future in demanding processes? What we know is that change takes time. For example, getting effects of voluntary aggregation, whether it's municipality or state, doesn't come overnight. It is not that one can sit two years later and say that it failed because the effects have not been taken out. This takes a very long time. But leave it alone. So I noticed that the government is very busy with the cases of forced labour. If we leave it behind and look at all the cases where voluntary merger of municipalities and counties is now taking place: what means will the government come with when it comes to cheering them up and getting them out? There is actually also practiced popular work on the local level that is demanding to stand in when all one hears, is a government that only cheers on those who... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1094	There's something about maybe you hear what you want to hear. The processes of the possible dissolution of coercive municipalities and counties concern ten municipalities and four counties. That is why, in my answer, I stressed that we wanted to strengthen the economy of the county councils strongly, precisely in order to be able both to drive service development and to be a force for regional development, to have a leading role in the partnership that is necessary, which also the Green region of Western Europe shows that is very important. Then I could go through a little bit, for a little bit of the motivation of the previous government to press on with also using coercion against the county councils, was to rig them for larger tasks and greater development. At the same time, we have figures that show that the means set aside for the county councils to play such a role have been cut this year for years. That's what's paradoxical about the policy we've seen from the Solberg government in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1101	So we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1109	‘The Council of State has previously criticised the regional reform by pointing out that the tasks so far allocated could be well managed by the ‘old’ counties. It is neither offensive nor forward-looking. For example, the relocation of Siva opens up so that the states can get a much more exciting portfolio than before. Then the counties must be able to bear that responsibility. Is it the case that the ambitions of the State Councils for the states in the future are limited to tasks and responsibilities that a population of well under 80 000 is able to assume?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1116	The representative of Skkelstad challenges me on the ambitions of tasks and responsibilities for the county councils. It appears paradoxical, then, that the representative has not had confidence that the county councils can take responsibility for perhaps the most fundamental issue, namely their own sustainability and justification as their own unit. He believes that only national authorities can take responsibility for this issue. I understand that it may be difficult to defend the use of coercion against the county councils on the grounds that they should be judged for new and major tasks, when the result was relatively modest, and at least not so that there were tasks that could be said to justify larger county councils in themselves. The government wants to invest in three levels of government, and county municipalities have an important role to play in Norway. Fortunately, here we agree. The Hurdal platform says that we want to look at how we can further strengthen the county authorities' responsibility for solving more tasks. I believe that it is possible to do that within the state structure we have today, and the one that may have to be after the division of coerced county councils applying for this. In the case of Siva, I am somewhat uncertain about what the representative means by ‘the relocation of Siva’. The county councils assumed the contracting authority’s responsibility for the business and incubation programme as part of the regional reform. Such responsibility may also be exercised within any changed county boundaries. The Government has not yet taken a decision on any other amendments proposed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1127	When the Central Party is talking about regional reform and considering how former government councils from the same party have worked hard to reduce the number of county councils, I wonder what to believe. It could be that the Center Party actually believes that fewer states will be a strength for them and District Norway. As far as the states that have been adopted are concerned, this means that one must be a fundamental opponent of the reform. If that's true, the period we're now going into, has to be in a sea of conflicting emotions. In addition, the centre party has opted for a change in county structure. They have had a municipal minister who has worked hard to get it done. Doesn't it seem more tempting to focus on the positive opportunities that fewer states offer for their inhabitants than to clean everything up with the root and start over again?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1134	We do not resolve everything with the root and start again, but we provide an opportunity for the ten coercive municipalities and the four coercive county municipalities – if they want to – to be able to resolve it again. The fundamental difference in the structure issue is just how much you trust local democracy. I'm also open to looking at new tasks, that's what we want to spend the time -- how we're going to give county councils more developmental power and facilitate it. But to make it primarily a matter of size, as the representative of Skkelstad does here, I do not think it is necessary. In the case of Siva, it is possible – as suggested by the Solberg government, and we are now looking at this – for example. moving ownership to an innovation company. Hermetikken Kulturnärdshage in Vadsø, with 32,59 p.m. State ownership, also a new county municipality – Finnmark County – will well maintain ownership of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1143	It's a little amazing to hear from the Council of State, which has a lot longer seagoing time than I do in county policy – perhaps from the beginning of the years of confirmation – and which can't see what's going on right now. We totally agree that we want a three-level for a lot of different reasons, but the grip that the Center Party is now at the head of, is about to confound it -- it's going to be a two-level fast afterwards. Then many of the possibilities that a level three gives will be confused because the Center Party is so eager and will bring this back. It must simply mean that the Centre Party no longer has faith in the generalist principle and will revise it. Is that so?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1148	I think that the representative of Skjelstad has the benefit of mentioning examples of tasks that he and the Left intend to transfer, which clearly trigger a discussion of the county boundaries. Nor will I agree with the description that a two-tier model is now being prepared. On the contrary, we want to strengthen the county municipalities, first of all by taking county democracy and regional democracy seriously, in addition to strengthening the county economy significantly, to involve the county municipalities as a central player in the development of regional growth agreements, and – as said in previous answers – to see how we can strengthen the power and responsibility of county municipalities in other areas as well. It is not a course to weaken the municipalities, it is a course to strengthen them and the important role of regional democracy and governance in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1156	‘Europe is experiencing a self-inflicted energy crisis due to the rapid phasing out of key basic production as nuclear power, resulting in high energy prices and power shortages. Norway imports Europe’s problem, and we experience prices in Norway that are totally unsustainable. France introduced price caps on electricity in October and out of April. In Spain, money is taken from electricity companies and returned to the population. Several other countries have introduced measures. All measures proposed by the FRP at lower prices have been downgraded. What does the government really want to do to help the people quickly?"
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1163	Power prices have been unusually high in South Norway through 2021 and into 2022. The government has constantly followed the situation closely and assessed various measures to reduce the high electricity costs to people in Norwegian homes. As a result, several measures have been presented by the Government. We have put in place a support scheme for households that occurs when, on average, the power prices over a month have been more than 70 øre per kWh. For December, the social security rate was 55 pst. of a power price of more than 70 øre, and for January to March, the government has proposed to increase the social security rate from 55 pst. to 80 pst. Let me illustrate the difference. Given the prices expected by the market, an exclusive dwelling with an annual consumption of 27000 kWh will now be covered by approximately NOK 2460 of its electricity bill for January consumption. That's NOK 770 more than what would have been the case with a social benefit rate of 55 pst. For an apartment with an annual consumption of 11000 kWh, the country will cover more than 1000 kroner. It is above NOK 300 more than if the social security benefit rate was 55 pst. The total transfers made by the State under the social security scheme will depend on what the power prices actually become and the actual consumption during the period. For the time being, the social security scheme has been estimated at almost 9 billion in total. kr. In addition, the government has reduced the electricity charge by 48 pst. in the winter months January to March and by 9 pst. in the other months. In addition, we have increased housing support, increased transfers to municipalities for additional expenditure on social economic assistance, supported the students and increased the contribution to Enova for energy efficiency improvement. Overall, this provides a consistent and targeted package of measures that will provide households with considerable help. Usually it takes many months of preparation to put in place new state schemes, but now we are in an exceptional situation, and that is why we have developed this new system in a short time. The government will continue to follow closely the power situation in the future, because we take people's concerns seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1180	Power prices are sky-high. They're many times higher than the normal average level we've had in the last decade. People need support now. The November bill was not supported, and the December bill received far too little support. The money has not even been placed in the account for too many people because there are two actors, both the power seller and the network rental provider. The bills have expired, and the account is empty for many. The Progress Party proposed $4,000 in cash support for people before Christmas. My inbox has been cleaned down by e-mails from people who are struggling and do not have money for food and heating. I have even supported several of those who are struggling with the bill, and gave almost NOK 10,000 of my own pocket to people who are struggling. How does the government plan to help those who have financial problems with today’s skyrocketing prices? Are there plans to help people who are in debt and end up in an economic downturn because of sky-high electricity bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1189	First, I would like to say that the prices that the market expects will be returned to its electricity bill by the government system much more than NOK 4000. What's fine with this system is that it's unbureaucratic and easy to manage. People don't have to do anything to get that money back. It was asked what we should do, beyond this, to help those who pay. To that end, I would say that the Minister for Consumer Affairs, i.e. Minister for Children and Family Kjersti Toppe, and the undersigned, have had a meeting with the online companies where we discussed the issue. The feedback is that they will, of course, assist those who have problems paying their bills, with, among other things. deferral of payments and schedule of amortisation. On the part of the carriers, they are invited to make contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1196	The party proposed far more than just giving NOK 4000. We also proposed measures that would apply from November. We wanted to cut the electricity charge, we wanted to remove the VAT, we wanted to give cash support to the people. The big problem now is that this does not just apply to households. People need an employee income to pay the electricity bills, but business is also struggling now. Reasonable and stable power has been and is an important competitive advantage, and this is now being pushed away. I visited Glencore in Kristiansand two days ago. They had 83 million. NOK in profit in the previous year, but got an extra power bill of 100 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. This will result in the loss of many jobs. What does the government plan to do to support business and secure jobs, so that people have a salary to pay these sky-high electricity bills with?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1205	Thanks for the follow-up question. As I said at the outset, we follow the situation very closely. During this winter we have presented several measures. I do not feel that any competition is necessary in how we should follow the situation closely. All the lots have realized that this situation became more serious than it was early in the harvest. It is therefore important to follow closely the situation. Many people in the business world are struggling, and I know that the Minister of Industry is following closely. Included in the scheme provided by the government for households are, among other things: the agricultural properties. Close monitoring of the business situation is important. I would also like to remind you that there are quite big differences in the different companies, and how hard this framework is. It's also a sign that we have to follow this very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1222	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1230	‘How much capacity on North Sea Link is used as of today, and how will increased capacity turn on power prices in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1235	There are many factors that affect the Norwegian electricity prices, including: Variations in rainfall, wind and temperature here at home. Through interrelationships, Norwegian prices are affected by the power situation in Europe, particularly in the southern parts of Norway. Among other things, there is a role to play here. gas and coal and CO 2 prices in addition to weather conditions such as wind. We get this effect on our prices both through the cables from the UK and Germany, which came into place during the previous government, but also through Denmark and Sweden, which we are closely connected to through several cables. Intermediary North Sea Link, between Norway and the United Kingdom, is built with a capacity of 1400 MW. The cable was put into test mode on 1 October last year. After the plan, the cable was first put into operation with 700 MW before the available capacity would gradually increase until normal operation by the end of the year. On 6 December, Statenet notified that due to technical difficulties there will be 700 MW available capacity on the cable until mid-February 2022. In the concession applications for the cables to Germany and the United Kingdom, Statnett estimated that Norwegian electricity prices will increase on average by 4 øre per kWh in 2020 and by more than 3 øre per kWh in 2030 as a result of the increased interconnection capacity. It was estimated that price effects in individual periods and years could be greater or less. The average estimate is not representative of the current power situation, with unusually high price levels and differences. The impact on power prices in South Norway is greater than the average estimate. Prices in northern parts of the country are less affected. How the increase in capacity on North Sea Link will affect the electricity price in Norway in the short term will, as mentioned, depend on the prices of gas, coal and CO 2, in addition to weather conditions in Europe. In the longer term, the electricity price will also be affected by developments in power generation, consumption of power and grid expansion and grid enhancements. The government takes the concerns over high electricity prices seriously. That is why we have worked out a comprehensive support package, but we also need to think in the long term. In the Hurdal platform, we announced that the government would set down an energy commission to identify energy needs and propose increased energy production, with the aim that Norway would continue to have surplus power generation. We will also investigate how Norwegian exports of power affect Norwegian security of supply and Norwegian electricity prices, and what concrete measures can help to ensure that Norwegian renewable power remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1258	Thanks for the answer. I registered that there is some estimate from the NVE, but that they really don't meet today's situation, as the Council of State says quite correctly. The new thing is that with North Sea Link and NordLink to Germany, we have connected ourselves to completely new price ranges, which also give imports of completely different prices than we had before. We have had other types of cables with less capacity for neighbouring countries in the Nordic region over many decades without creating any problems for Norwegian electricity prices. The new thing now is these giant cables, which were granted concession by the previous red-green government, and which were launched by the Progress Party in government and right. This has led to far stronger price imports from European countries. Prime Minister Støre said earlier in the Questionnaire that he would agree to renegotiate the agreements around these cables. Can the Council of State respond to when the government will initiate such a renegotiation in order to be able to have the power export regulated just to ensure smaller price imports?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1267	I'm not going to answer exactly at the time, but we're going to talk to our partners in the other Nordic and European countries. It's a conversation that's ongoing. I think that very many of our neighbouring countries also have major challenges in the situation we see today. Today, for example, the Swedish government has put forward a power insurance scheme, which is very similar to what our government has presented. It's a sign that many people are trying to deal with the ongoing, extraordinary power crisis. I believe it is important that we investigate the impact of the cables, as mentioned in the Hurdal platform, and as I also said to the questioner, because it is difficult to estimate the isolated impact of the foreign tables on current power prices. But it is quite clear that with a stronger link to Europe, we are more affected by the conditions there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1274	The latter is quite correct, namely that the more cables we build, the stronger the price harmonisation with a giga market with both much more unstable and also on average much higher energy prices. That's why Red has been against these cables, but they're now built, and they're there, we're not going to cut them over. Then the question is: is there a political will in the government and in the Workers' Party to regulate the flow of power? Today it is running through the market through Nord Pool, i.e. pure market liberalism. It has supported most parties on the Stortinget up until now, but I record that at least out in the depths of the people there is a desire for political will to regulate and not only uninhibited market liberalism in the sales of force to prevent the import of these prices. That's why I want to round off asking the State Council if she, if full cable trade gives more price imports, will go in to regulate the export over North Sea Link.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1279	In the concession application for the cables to Germany and the United Kingdom, the price impact that we see today may not be taken into account. That's why I think it's important to go through this and look at it, and then the results of the studies are related to how it affects, also say a little bit about how we're going to act. The representative of Moxnes asks a little about measures that affect the functioning of the power market. We have put forward in the current crisis, which is primarily about a power crisis at very high prices, a system in which we are going to return a good deal of money to households that do not directly affect the functioning of the market. We have done that because we fear that it may exacerbate the situation to intervene directly without it being properly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1289	My question is: ‘Does the Council of State believe that it was right for Statnet to freshen up the power situation in view of the level of filling in the warehouses; and is it appropriate to export fully with the current level of filling?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1296	Statnett categorized 27 September last year's power situation in South West Norway as tight, for the first time in four years. The background for this was low and negative development in the filling density. During the autumn, the magazines in South Norway were well received. The improved storage situation, together with the available import capacity, led to a more normal force situation in addition to the autumn. Therefore, on 18 November last year, the national network changed the categorisation of the power situation back to normal. State networks continue to make continuous assessments of the power situation and will change status if the situation so warrants. Although the European power system is now in an exceptional situation, the level of filling we see today is not unique. We're going back no further than 2019 to find similar levels. We are far from a situation of rationalization today. State networks set up as a system operator at any time the appropriate capacity of the international connections, based on the operation of the network in Norway. Any restrictions on transmission capacity are made for operational reasons, such as: as a result of congestion restrictions on the domestic network. We are not in a situation now that indicates that the power situation poses operational challenges. At the same time, the exceptionally high electricity prices affect the economy of many in Norway. We have therefore taken several steps through the autumn and winter. Among other things, we have strengthened the important insurance scheme in which we jointly relieve households for a higher share of the electricity bill. It is a fair redistribution for the benefit of ordinary people in a demanding time too many. But we also have to think in the long term. In the Hurdal platform, we announced that the government, among other things, will set down an Energy Commission to identify energy needs and to propose increased energy production, with the aim that Norway will continue to have surplus power generation, which we also have today, at around 20 TWh per year. We will also investigate how Norwegian exports of power affect Norwegian security of supply and Norwegian electricity prices, and what concrete measures can help to ensure that Norwegian renewable power remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1309	My concern is that the market should function as the market is designed to function, i.e. when the power producers see that the price in today's spot market is higher than in the forward market, i.e. that one can sell the current more expensive today than in March/April, they will produce more power now, because it pays more for them to sell that current now than in March/April. Then I am worried that in a situation of extremely high prices, the market mechanism can drop the level of filling we have today, and that we can get a situation more like the one we had in the past, last year, to which the Council of State pointed. So my question is whether there is any reason to be concerned that this rather new situation at such high power prices has such an effect on the level of filling, and what measures the Council of State would expect to introduce if the level of filling would be even lower than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1314	The magazine filling in Norwegian magazines is 56 pst, which corresponds to an energy content of 48,8 TWh. By comparison, Norwegian consumption has been higher than 130 TWh in recent years. Statnet follows the situation very closely as system administrator. We also saw, among other things: that the water storage was saved in connection with the import of electricity in the last days of last year, which I also believe is important. But as I said in the answer to the question, I'm not afraid that we are now in a situation of rationalization, because we have a relatively good appetite for the magazines that are. So I'm not worried about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1319	I'm glad that the Council of State is following this closely, because it's serious for the country if we're going to end up in the situation that we have to rationalize on the force. That's why I and Red are concerned that there are too few tools to use if you were to approach such a situation, and that it's also a little difficult to compare back in time, when the power prices are so extreme now. We see it in households, we see it in the extraordinary way that the government has done with insurance measures, that there are really completely new times in the electricity price market. Then I wonder if the Council of State believes it is appropriate to export force in the situation we are in now, and whether one can guarantee that we do not have a problem with the power supply, and that we have to import even more expensive electricity because we consume our own water, and then more expensive electricity has to be collected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1324	There is no doubt that the last few years have been an important reminder that our power supply is very weather-dependent, and that we also have a long experience of being affected by the conditions in our neighbouring country. We also have a link to Europe via Sweden and Denmark, which we have been working with in the last 60 years, so that influence is already there. The agreements governing power cooperation are not the responsibility of the State Council for the system, they are Statnett and their partners in those countries, and they operate this in the light of the agreements we have today. As I said, I would like to go through this, because the isolated effects on the prices of the foreign tables are a little bit difficult to estimate accurately, and the measures that you might be able to take there, we have to follow up on that further, based on what will be the answer to that survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1332	My question is about the network lease: ‘Even if the new network lease is deferred, an introduction in the summer will also lead to an increase for many – can the State Council guarantee that the network lease will not increase?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1337	The network is a natural monopoly and the revenues of the network companies are therefore subject to strict regulation under the Energy Act. The authorities provide for annual allowable income for each of the country's around 100 network carriers. Within the income framework, it is the network companies that set tariffs within the applicable regulatory framework, based on their knowledge of their own network and local conditions. A new network lease structure does not increase costs. The conversion to power tariffs does not imply a change in the income regulation. There is another way to cover the costs of network deployment and operation. If someone has to pay more, others will pay less. Therefore, for each example of higher bills drawn out, there are similar cases where the price falls. The so-called power-based tariffs provide a fairer distribution of network costs between customers by paying for what you charge the network. The aim is to provide incentives to streamline electricity consumption so that the capacity of the mains power grid is better exploited, thereby keeping network leases as low as possible by ensuring that network investments do not exceed what is necessary. New and reinforced power grids are linked to both high economic costs and difficult balances related to location, nature and environment. Then, at least in my view, it's important that we use the mains power supply we already have, in the best possible way. This results in lower network costs over time for electricity customers, less natural interference and fewer network deployment conflicts. The overall income framework for the network companies, excluding Statnet, has increased from 17.2 billion. NOK 2021 to SEK 19,3 billion. NOK 2022. According to the Energy Regulatory Authority, the increase is mainly due to increased power prices to cover network losses and large investments in grid installations. The increase in network rentals has a background in the increased income framework, but it does not have to do with new network lease structures. We must not allow Norwegian electricity customers to invest large amounts of money in networks that are not needed. Much of the consumption can be distributed over the day using conservative incentives. That's important, because the network is expensive, and we can't afford to build ourselves out of all the challenges when it's the customers who pay. It is true, as it is also unfair that low and inflexible consumers should have to pay extra for the grid when it could have been avoided if those who can control their consumption with simple grip had distributed it beyond the day. The representative Marhaug asks if I can guarantee that network rental will not increase with the transition to power tariffs. In any case, I can guarantee that if we do not take action to spread the high power consumption beyond the day, the network rental will go up unnecessarily over time to pay for network investments that could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1354	I thank you for your answer. Gudbrandsdal Energia made a quite extensive survey based on 48 000 customers. It showed that 70 pst. their customers will have increased network rentals with power-based tariffs, i.e. electricity charging. The model of Elvia here in Oslo for power-based tariffs, to take another example, leads to an increase for those who consume the least electricity. It seems to me that the new network lease model will lead to a significant increase for a large majority, and that it is not socially fair. That's what's behind my question. At the same time, we know that the state makes a lot of money. Could it be appropriate for the government to cover costs related to network upgrades other than by increasing network rentals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1363	We have a power range that works and will deliver its setting on June 15th this year. I think they will also make some recommendations on how we can prioritize the web differently from what we do, and I will wait to conclude finally until it is done. But what I want to say about, also related to the introduction of new network rentals, is that we – of course, in line with the majority of the Stortinge majority – have suspended the entry into force of the regulation on power-based tariffs until 1 July, and there are many network companies that have turned around and postponed the deployment. I intend to invite representatives of the network companies to a quick meeting on that work. Then I think that the Council of State should also challenge the network companies on the figures presented here by the representative Marhaug, to hear how they assess the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1370	When the Workers' Party joined the EU Energy Agency ACER, the National Government of the Workers' Party also adopted some mandatory requirements for the party to join the Acer. One of them was about web rental. It was about allowing bottleneck revenues from the new intermediate landscapes, i.e. North Sea Link and NordLink, to continue to be used to reduce network tariffs, as well as to maintain and expand the Norwegian grid. So my last follow-up question is about this. While the country incurs revenues, both in the form of bottlenecks, in the form of increased dividends and increased land-interest tax: can none of these increased revenues be used to expand the Norwegian electricity network in line with the mandatory requirement adopted by the National Government of the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1375	I have to answer almost the same thing as I said instead: we have a power range that is now working and will work on some of these issues, and it will be right for me to come back with measures that follow up their recommendations. It is also about the development and financing of the mains power grid. The way the system works today, it is the customers who pay for the network, and therefore I think it is important to follow up the recommendations that the power network range will make. These include: so that part of the development of the network is today paid through construction contributions from industry and enterprises that are to have connections, so that not everything is charged to the household customers that we are talking about in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1383	My question is also about the demands of the Workers' Party when they joined the government of Solberg and the Greens' Greens' Party in 2018 and provided a majority to join the Acer: ‘Meet the Council of State that the mandatory requirements of the Workers' Party to join ACER, if, inter alia: energy security and social control are met in the current situation with sky-high electricity prices?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1390	National control of energy and security of supply in Norway is very important for the government and is mentioned in the Hurdal Platform. A majority of the Stortinget consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Environment Party The Green Party adopted in March 2018 a decision to include the third energy market package in the EEA Agreement. The agreement concluded between those batches in the course of the treatment is, inter alia, to deal with: that there should be national and social governance and control of hydropower resources and that Norwegian authorities should have full control over all decisions relevant to energy security in Norway. This also applies to decisions relating to industry and power disengagement. For the Workers' Party, security of supply is crucial in Norway. In a weather-based system like ours, where the difference between the highest and lowest levels of hydropower production in the last ten years is about 60 TWh, good capacity sharing with our neighbouring countries is very important. Now the whole European power system is in a very difficult situation. Increased levels of renewable energy sources both in Norway and not least in the rest of Europe will give rise to fluctuations in electricity prices, but what we see now is an unusually high price level throughout the European electricity system. Exceptionally high gas prices are the main single cause, while coal prices, CO 2 prices and weather conditions have all moved towards high electricity prices. In such a situation, the government must set up and protect Norwegian households against extreme prices. I feel that the government is doing through the package that is now available, with the insurance system, electricity tax cuts, housing support, social assistance, ENØK support and increased support for the students. ACER is an Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators and shall act as an advisor to the practice and development of the internal energy market legislation. There's a lot of things that affect power prices and that have nothing to do with ACER. We have a market-based power system, and Norway is part of a Nordic and European power market. We've been for years. There are changes in the energy systems around us, which are also involved in influencing the Norwegian power system. Power prices have been unusually high in South Norway through 2021 and into 2022. The Government has submitted several measures to compensate for this. We have listened to people's feedback and are now making sure that the power support system is strengthened. It is important for us that people should be able to live a normal life even if we now experience totally unusual power prices. I believe the requirements of the 2018 agreement have been met. Although Norway participates in a more harmonised regulatory framework for energy markets through the EEA Agreement, we continue to have sovereignty in controlling and controlling our energy resources, all decisions with an impact on energy security in Norway and the design of our national energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1414	Protecting households and students can be done with social policy. It's been necessary in the situation we're in. But to protect industry and agriculture, some people have to pursue energy policies in order to get through it. Now the electricity brew – from power-processing industry in Trøndelag, from some of the few remaining wood processing companies producing paper, from Northern Ireland, where we produce aluminium, steel and fertilizer. From a combined industry and from a collective LO, the people demand that we now have an energy policy that can be regulated for the benefit of industry. The question then arises: One of the demands of the Labour Party was that Norwegian renewable power generation should contribute to increased value creation and employment in Norway. Does the Council of State think this has been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1423	The main question here was about ACER, and I believe, as I said, that the agreement from 2018 has been fulfilled. Because we have control of our water resources. We have social and national governance and control over them, and in all energy security decisions in Norway, we have control. So it's up to us to make the energy policy we have. We have had a government that has had one energy policy and a majority that has had one energy policy. We have notified a number of measures to ensure Norwegian industry ample and reasonable renewable energy. Among other things, we need to: put down an energy commission, as mentioned earlier today. We're going to look at the influence of the foreign tables to map it. Furthermore, we have a power range that works with measures to strengthen the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1430	The main question here is about the requirements set by the Workers' Party to join the Acer and thus go in and create a majority for the integration of Norwegian energy policy in the EU, with the support of both the Acer and the third energy market package. Now, when we see that this has worked for a while, despite the overall warnings from the trade movement and a lot of the Workers' Party's own rapporteurs in the industrial communities, and we now see that the Norwegian Industry NHO comes up and demands a stronger regulation and an industrial policy and energy policy that is best for us, then the question is: how bad is it to go for this part of society before the government takes the necessary steps and stops letting the market control energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1437	I think I share the opinion of the representative that Norwegian industry is important for the development of our country and that energy policy is an important part of it. One of the biggest competitive advantages we have had in Norway has always been that we have had sufficient and reasonable access to renewable energy. It is the government's goal that we should still have it, and we have had it, among other things. with the market-based system we've had under the Energy Act since 1991. The background to the question that was asked was whether we thought that power policy was still under popular control and control, which we believe it does. We're going to use this opportunity to secure our own industry and our own opportunities, and not least to expand the transmission system so that we can create new industries around our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1447	My question is about the maximum price of electricity: ‘What does the Council of State think about the scope for introducing a maximum electricity price in periods of sky-high electricity prices, in view of the fact that the price peaks have been even higher since the Storting treated the government’s electricity package?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1454	We have an exceptional situation in the power market with very high power prices, especially in South Norway, and there is no doubt that many have major challenges and are concerned that they are not going to be able to pay the electricity bill. I am therefore pleased that we have put in place a support scheme for households, and that this will be further strengthened. The aid scheme occurs when, on average, the power price over a month has been more than 70 kWh. With the announced strengthening of the scheme, the government will pay 80 pst. of the power price above 70 cents, and the part to be paid by the country is deducted from the next invoice. It is also important that household incentives to make energy-efficient choices are not unduly weakened. The 70 øre/kWh entry point is therefore set at a rather high level for the power price. So high power prices in themselves give consumers incentives to adapt and save electricity. By setting a price cap for the actors in the power market, we can get into a situation where the market is not working properly. The power market is essential to ensure the balance of a complex power system from day to day and from hour to hour. The framework for the power system is therefore also important in terms of security of supply. Within the current system, the market is intended to ensure that the production of power is equal to the consumption of power – at all times. Moreover, the price signals provided by the market are important to make it visible that electricity is scarce and that we should therefore save on electricity. The aid scheme put in place is a rigorous scheme and is designed so that, if the power price is higher, the aid from the State is also higher. A social security rate of 80 pst. ensures that households receive good help in paying the electricity bill, while still having financial incentives to keep electricity consumption down. So we've also put in place more powerful measures to limit people's electricity bills over the winter, and we're following the situation in the power market closely. Many have raised measures that affect the functioning of the power market. I would advise against that, because we do not overlook the effects of it in the short term, and in the worst case, it could exacerbate the situation. The market has an important function and must function without interference. It's better then that we put these measures in place to help the population pay the sky-high electricity bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1471	When power prices shoot in the weather, it's not just about numbers, but about many people who are struggling to pay their bills. In practice, there is a real wage drop. Production costs for electricity are low in Norway. It costs less than 12 cents to produce, but despite that it now costs more than 6 cents per kWh for households. The government made almost 30 billion dollars. kr in increased income due to the high prices in the form of increased dividends and rent taxes only last year. Law on price measures states that the King may adopt maximum price decisions where necessary to promote socially sound price developments. In other words, there is an opening to introduce maximum electricity prices. Does the Council of State feel that the price trend we are now seeing in society is socially sound? If not, will the government use the law on price measures to impose a maximum price on electricity?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1478	I do not want to reject any proposals, because we are therefore following closely the evolution of the situation, but we have chosen to provide a power support system that helps households to pay their bills. The market is miserable at redistribution, and then it is redistribution that is needed to achieve it. However, I would like to warn you a little bit about setting a price cap for the players in the power market. An example might be that manufacturers, for example: at a price ceiling, the warehouses will be disposed of according to how they think the price cap is going to be set in the longer term, and this may result in a relatively low level of storage capacity. At a price ceiling we are also not guaranteed imports if we really need it, and the price ceiling must then be set higher than in our neighbouring countries, and we risk that the price in the long term will be higher than what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1485	Governments are afraid that the market won't sort out if we set a maximum price, but then it's a little strange that the Council of State thinks the market is fixing up now. It's fine with power management packages, but it doesn't actually hold for people's economy today. It is better with a price that is evenly low than that it shoots in the weather when we use the power most, like for example. in winter. In power policy, almost an aggregate increase has allowed the market to decide, and it is quite right that the Council of State says that it is miserable to redistribute. In fact, every single day, it's gonna piss people off. It turns out it doesn't work – not for most people. Taking democratic, political control over the prices that have run smoothly is reasonable, and that is not least absolutely necessary, because the costs for ordinary people are high. They were high before the package, and they're still high for a lot of people. Then the question is: will the government take political direction over prices through a maximum electricity price, or will the government continue to have a naive belief that the market will be settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1492	A power supply that covers large parts of the price over a certain level, as we have presented, acts in practice in many ways as a price cap for many households. Today's social welfare system is good in that way, precisely by allowing us to adjust it, even if prices increase, and that households will get more when prices increase. But I want to warn you a little bit against doing, in an extraordinary situation, in what is a power crisis, actions that do not necessarily take the crisis, but that affect the long-term, and that may have an unfortunate impact on what we do not want, because we don't want prices to get more stable. From 2010 to 2020, prices were on average 33 kWh, and it is not desirable to add up to a policy that may lead to a sustained high price.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1502	My question is about the ongoing electrification of Norwegian socket with electricity from land, and the question I want to ask the Council of State is, ‘How will electrification of the socket affect the electricity prices of Norwegian business and Norwegian households?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1507	The Government will not wind up the development of the Norwegian petroleum industry. The petroleum sector is a highly productive industry that contributes to high incomes, value creation and jobs in Norway. At the same time, the emissions from the oil and gas activities must be reduced. In the context of the Storting's decision on temporary changes to the Petroleum Tax Act in spring 2020, a broad majority asked – from the current government parties as well as the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party – the government, together with the industry, to present a plan to reduce the emissions of oil and gas production on Norwegian pst by 50 pst. by 2030. The government is continuing this work, including: as mentioned in the Hurdal platform. All major electrification measures, including more use of power from Norwegian countries, are separately higher in electricity prices in Norway. At the same time, we have a good starting point for using renewable energy for emission reductions and value creation. At present, there is a surplus of about 20 TWh in Norway in a normal year and renewable energy is expected to continue to be available in the coming years. It is difficult to say how one factor will affect the power price. In 2020, the Oil Directorate and the NVE carried out a study assessing the impact on the power system as a result of increased use of power from land. The study suggests that more mature and immature projects are being implemented. NVE's analyses show that the realisation of the electricity-from-country projects studied will lead to an increase in the power price in all price ranges. In 2030, the increase in the power price is estimated to be about 1 ø/kWh in South Norway, 4.2 ø/kWh in Middle Norway and 5.8 ø/kWh in North Norway. By 2040, electrification of the cap will have a less impact on the power prices. It is important to stress that such long-term projections of power prices and isolated effects of increased consumption are fraught with considerable uncertainty. Access to sufficient clean and reasonable power has for decades been the main competitive advantage of the Norwegian industry. The government wants this to continue to be a priority for Norwegian industry in the future and to contribute to value creation and employment throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1524	I thank the Council of State for the answer and what I see as a confirmation that electrification of the socket with electricity from land will lead to increased electricity prices, like all other major electrification projects that need to be planned. The question then is to what extent it makes sense to proceed with such electrification advances. It is beyond doubt that it will contribute to a reduction in emissions from the oil and gas sector in Norway. The question is to what extent it contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the global climate accounts. Although one should be able to move emissions from one column to another in a global climate account, there will be no less global warming for that reason. What happens when you electrify the socket is that you sell the same gas you wanted to burn on the socket, to another country where it is burned instead. My question is, how sensible is electrification of the socket as a climate action if you think a little bit larger than just the Norwegian climate accounting isolated?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1533	Emissions are on their way down on a Norwegian base. As I said, it was in the context of the Stortinget action package that adopted in the spring of 2020, a majority on the Stortinget which also agreed to submit a plan to further reduce the emissions of oil and gas production. In the case of the petroleum sector, it is covered by the European greenhouse gas emissions allowance system. Reduced emissions in quota-related activities in Norway, including Norwegian cap, result in a smaller need for allowances in Norway. It will significantly release allowances for use in other activities within the allowance system. Furthermore, the gas released from the energy production in the fields will be exported. Therefore, using power instead of gas on a platform will have a marginal impact on supply and demand in energy markets, but it has not been said that electrification of platforms does not have an effect on climate. Firstly, ETS measures can contribute to lower emissions in Europe and globally through the so-called EU erasure mechanism [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1542	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I note that the Council of State believes there will be significant climate effects of electrification of the socket. I allow myself to doubt whether it has any particular global effect of exporting and burning the gas anywhere other than on the Norwegian base. What is doubtful, however, and as the Council of State has already confirmed, is that electrification of the socket will lead to increased electricity prices in Norway. The question is: despite the fact that projects with electrification so far have had broad support in the Norwegian collapse, should not the winter power crisis, with the consequent risk of industrial death, with the consequent risk of postponing all real projects within the green shift that require cheap power, cause the government and the council to think again about whether to start as large electrification projects as the base will be?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1551	There's going to be a little bit of a mix between the climate effect and the effect on the current prices here. All electrification, if not recharged, will have an effect on prices. That is the offer that follows demand. This also applies if we increase the number of electric cars. When it comes to the climate effect, I think it has an effect. Only for Troll B and C, which are currently planned and on which PUD was submitted in December 2021, a reduction of 450 000 tonnes of CO 2 is envisaged. There will always be an assessment of utility and alternative value of the force. In this case, each electrification project must be treated separately. In the case of those who have been authorised so far, they are authorised under conditions, such as: may withdraw the transmission of electricity if the measures on the system so require.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1564	‘How does the Council of State feel that the new power package hits, and does the Council of State agree that the 70 øre kilowatt-hour threshold is an abnormally high price for electricity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1569	Since the autumn, the government has been following the situation in the power market closely and in a relatively short time has established an aid scheme targeting households in Norway. For the government, it has been important to find solutions quickly, which meet those who need help. The chosen scheme is successful by rapidly reaching households directly through the electricity bill. For December 2021, the social security rate was 55 pst. of the power price above 70 øre. From January to March, the government has proposed to increase the level of social benefits from 55 pst. to 80 pst. The situation in the power market is exceptional, both in Norway and in the countries around us. The electricity price has, through late summer and autumn 2021, moved to unusual altitudes historically in Norway. The average price in Norway for 2021 ended at around 61 kWh. In comparison, the average price for the years 2020 and 2019 was 10 øre and 38 øre/kWh respectively. At the same time, we see greater price differences between parts of the country than what we've been used to in the past. Based on historical prices, 70 ø/kWh is a high electricity price in Norway. The electricity price has been around 30 øre for the last 10 years, i.e. 33 øre/kWh in 2010-2020. Since 2010, only a few weeks have had a price of over 70 kWh. In today's situation, I believe that this point of entry makes sense, also in the light of the fact that we are now going to increase the proportion from the state of what comes over 70 cents. For the government, it has been important to find solutions that do not impair security of supply or have unintended price effects in the exceptional situation we are currently in. In the Hurdal platform, we state that the government will design more powerful measures to reduce high electricity costs, including a lower electricity charge – which we have provided – increased housing support, geographical price balancing of network rentals, strengthened consumer rights and increased Norwegian power generation. The government has listened to people's feedback, and we are now making sure that the security regime is strengthened. It is important for us that people should be able to live a normal life, even though we now experience extraordinary power prices. In Norway, we stand up for each other when it turns out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1582	I thank you for your answer. Households and a number of industries are now experiencing – that expenditure is rising violently and suddenly – a very special phenomenon. For the purposes of comparison, the spot consumer price adjusted for the period 2010-2020 was, on average, 33 ø/kWh excluding value added tax. In practice, this can help and contribute to a real wage reduction for a lot of people out there with ordinary and low incomes. In other words, 70 cents/kWh is for most people a very high price to pay for electricity. Today, the spot price in the area we're in now, in the east, is a total of 173,20 cents/kWh. Does the council agree that despite the government's new power package, this is still too high a price to pay for electricity for ordinary people out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1589	We have put forward a social welfare scheme in a very special situation, an exceptional situation in which the power price has become exceptionally high. It's to fix the high prices -- the tops over 70 cents. That means that there will still be relatively high electricity bills for many households to pay, but we'll set them up when they get extraordinarily high. The background that we've put on 70 cents is just that it's historically so that it's about what's been top. It's a whole new system. We've never done the equivalent before. What is unique about it is that it also follows the customer when the prices get higher, so that the price gets higher, you will also get more. It's also an important factor in this. It is possible to follow closely and see what price developments will be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1596	The state alone hopeed last year in close to 30 billion. NOK 2021. That profit now calculates to almost 40 billion. kr, and it is money that ordinary people, the Labour Party has gone to the elections to say that they are fighting for, have paid. So even with the government's new power package, as explained here by the government, ordinary people with 80 pst. coverage of electricity billing over 70 ø/kWh again ends up filling the power company’s boxes instead of being secured an affordable electricity price. My question to the Council of State is whether she is willing to take political control of electricity prices and ensure lower electricity bills for people out there – in other words, use classical social-democratic policies to get control of the situation that affects ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1603	In this questionnaire on behalf of the government, I have explained a number of the measures we want to take to gain control of the electricity market. These include: to ensure increased power generation to meet the needs we have in Norway when we are building up new industries. It's also about keeping prices down for ordinary people. But an extraordinary situation, a power price crisis, we meet with extraordinary measures and measures that we can quickly put in place. The government has done that in this situation. We've rolled out a record time scheme that will provide significant support to all households, and in addition, we've done a lot for those who need it the most. We've increased the housing support, we've expanded the housing support, we've created a system that allows students to get loans and scholarships, and we've reduced the electricity charge for everyone. It's important to do in the short term, and then we have to do more in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1617	‘Norway has more nurses per capita than any EU country, and we are the OECD country with the highest proportion of people employed in the health sector. Nevertheless, the capacity for intensive treatment is too low to deal with extensive outbreaks of infection, and is being used as the main basis for the interventional measures currently in force. What organisational changes can be made within the community to increase intensive capacity and to obtain more patient treatment out of each year’s work in the sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1624	The experience of the coronary apathy shows that even countries which, according to the OECD, have a significantly higher intensive capacity than Norway, such as Germany and Austria, do not have a capacity to avoid intervention in society. We therefore need to distinguish between ordinary intensive capacity and plans to deal with major crises of shorter and longer duration, such as this pandemic. Intensive capacity has received a lot of attention, but in the event of a large outbreak of infection with many infected and sick people, the entire healthcare system will be put on hold. Although Norway has a very good intensive treatment, the risk of death and lateness is not negligible. It is a demanding task to compare our intensive capacity with other countries. Capacity can be defined in different ways and there are different levels of intensification units based on the criteria for advanced treatment offered. This includes, inter alia: crew, competence and equipment requirements. It may also vary which health professionals are involved in the treatment of severely ill patients. This pandemic has shown the need to increase intensive capacity in Norway. It's a priority area for the government. We need to consider measures in both the short and long term. It is natural that we acquire knowledge and experience on the organisation of intensive capacity from other countries. Better basic funding and more educational positions will allow capacity to be increased, and then we can employ more intensive nurses. By focusing on empowerment for nurses and other health professionals, these can help relieve intensive care providers and doctors, who can then spend more time on patient treatment that requires their competence. A more flexible capacity is therefore necessary, and a strategy. Yesterday I gave the hospital speech at the University Hospital North Norway in Tromsø. There I presented a large package of measures for the hospitals, with a total of 1.5 billion. in increased funds for hospitals and funds for 200 new training positions for specialised nurses. These are concrete grips, such as: will strengthen Norwegian intensive capacity, both the base capacity and the more flexible capacity that will allow us to manage an expected increase in infection with omicron this winter, as we are now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1637	I want to thank you for the answer, and let me start by stressing that I agree with the Minister of Health that it is not enough to build an intensive capacity that can take height for anything or for extreme situations or infectious pandemics where there is no vaccine. The reason why this is still interesting to discuss now is that we're in a pandemic where we now have vaccines, but there are at least a lot of things that indicate that there could be new virus variants that might need refresher doses, and that this could be very long-lasting. Then the fundamental question is to what extent we are going to adapt society to the healthcare system or healthcare system to society. During the pandemic, we have operated on the fact that it will be possible to scale up the number of intensive sites to 1,200. Sorry, there is not a number left. Now the government reports that what they think is the realistic number, is 647. What I want to follow up with then is to ask: what is unrealistic about what has been said before, because I haven't really got my hands on it yet?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1646	I agree with the representative that we need to discuss intensive capacity. We need increased intensive capacity in Norway, even outside the pandemic, as a result of our ageing population. There is a need that health regions have been working with over a long period of time, for example. in an investigation from 2019. The figure to which the representative refers, 647, is the health region's own assessment of what it is possible to step up to now in the short term. It'll be manageable, but with a lower quality than what we're used to today. This also means that health regions here believe that a lower quality has a significant risk associated with it. We have now taken a number of short-term measures – the educational positions we joined yesterday, as well as extra money because each year’s work is more expensive when vacations are cancelled and special agreements are needed locally – so that this scale can be made, but it is the region’s own assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1653	I'm aware of that. What I asked for is what the assessment of the Minister of Health and Welfare is. When it's said that it's not realistic to go up to 1,200 places, or something more than 647, the question is, what makes it not realism? In any case, as I have read the different plans here, what is coming is several steps into the process of stepping up, especially questions about changing working time and holiday arrangements, for example. a change to work more weekends than today, but within the rules of the Working Environment Act, and e.g. a change in vacation schedules. Is it that the Minister of Health and Health I think is unrealistic in a situation to be able to escalate the intensive capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1660	The realistic-realistic scale I don't think is a correct description of these two sizes. The figure of 1200 from April 2020 was a figure with clear reservations. In terms of both quality and available equipment, there was a number that was put in a situation where there was great uncertainty and where very dramatic scenarios were taken into account. The number 647 is linked to a quality standard assessing the needs of covid-19 patients over 22 months, both those receiving respiratory therapy and those receiving a different type of intensive treatment. So that's probably a more realistic figure based on how the professionals estimate it. The number 1,200 was, as I said, with clear limitations and lower standards of treatment, and also with the possibility of maintaining it only for a short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1668	‘All students deserve quality in school regardless of where they live and who their parents are. Schools are important social actors but must not be reduced to a district policy instrument alone. Does the Council of State consider that small cross-border schools are more important than the quality of school provision for all pupils throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1675	The government's goal is to create a stronger common school where students learn more, thrive better and experience mastery. I therefore agree with the representative Jøns that all students deserve quality in the school offer, wherever they live and where they come from. But I do not agree with the representative's assumption that a large school is almost automatically providing good quality, while a small school is of poor quality. This assumption is also not supported in international or Norwegian school research. That's what I think about the fact that quality is more influenced by whether you have qualified teachers, whether you have a good management that gives direction to the work of the school, and whether you have a good professional community. All of this can be achieved in both large and small schools, cities and districts. I have confidence in local elected representatives, and it is important to stress that they are the ones who decide how many schools they should have in the municipality and where those schools should be. They must make an assessment related to the possibilities of recruiting qualified teachers, the burden on students resulting from e.g.: longer journey, local economy and the relationship between school structure, residence and industrial structure. In Norway, there has been a trend over several decades where there have been fewer and larger schools. Although there are many considerations that need to be weighed against each other when assessing the school structure locally, the structure is largely influenced by population trends. We have demographic developments in Norway where we have fewer children and at the same time live longer. Norway is ageing at an increasing rate. In just ten years, for the first time, it'll be older than kids. This has consequences for the school structure throughout the country. At the same time, there is a trend towards urbanisation and centralisation, which was not least contributed by the previous government. With a lower student base in the districts, it is also more difficult to maintain a decentralised school provision. An important task for the government is to contribute to good and predictable municipal economy, so that municipalities can provide the services that citizens expect and are entitled to in everyday life. In 2022, the local government sector receives a growth in free income of 4.5 billion. kr. We're increasing the growth of the free income of the sector by 2.5 billion. Compared to the previous government budget. As a follow-up to the Hurdal Platform, the government has introduced a new grant of SEK 500000 per primary municipal school, which is financed within the framework grant to municipalities. I think it helps to develop an equivalent high-quality school offer across the country. Regardless of the school structure, municipalities must provide the school provision required by the Education Act and the regulations. This includes, inter alia: the right of students to a safe and good school environment and the need for schools to adapt their training so that all students can experience learning and development on the basis of their assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1690	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I have not said that size and quality are closely linked, but I have to say that I am strongly critical of introducing municipalities that do not plan for the future, because that is what this is all about. There is a broad consensus in School-Norway that qualified teachers who have time to take care of the individual student, to strengthen the student and to build professional learning communities in all schools, are three very important ambitions. Does the Council of State feel that there are important ambitions? Do the Councils share those ambitions? And does the Council of State think that it is right to introduce municipalities that do not plan for the future, but preserve the school structure of the 1950s rather than take on the population trends and trends we see in society, as the Council of State correctly noted?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1697	I'm not sure if you find a local politician in this country who thinks she or he isn't planning for the future. If there's one thing our local elected representatives do, it's just that. This is why the point of having good basic funding for municipalities and a good basic funding for our schools is so crucial, because in the planning of children's coal that has not yet been born, it is particularly demanding to plan for a good school structure. I am of the opinion that we agree that it is the availability of qualified personnel that is essential for running a good school that is in line with the objectives and requirements of the Training Act. That's why I think it's a sort of distraction to discuss the size of the schools and think that having as an ambition to maintain a primary school is a preserving thing in itself. I'm absolutely sure our local politicians are doing everything they can to make it the best possible for all kids, both in pig-grown strips and in urban struts, to go to school in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1706	It is precisely this: there are very, very many capable local politicians, including from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, who are in tough debates that are demanding – school structure is demanding, it hits many – and they do so in order to achieve the goal of strong environments of competence and quality in the offer to all students. It's tough, but absolutely necessary debates in a lot of municipalities, and that's because society is changing. Many municipalities, as the council itself says, have fewer students, and many choose to stay centrally. Then my question to the Council of State is whether she wants to raise the issue of continuing the system – which actually means moving 1 billion. kr. There is a lot of money even in the Norwegian state budget. This money is currently spent on a few students, rather than contributing to a fairer distribution of funds that also gives the large schools and large municipalities the opportunity to give their students a good school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1711	The last representative of Jønnes claims is simply not right. Among the municipalities that serve the most in e.g. a primary school supplement, primary school funding, are municipalities with many inhabitants, and also have cities. So the fact that there's a grant to our primary schools that benefits students, no matter what primary school they go to, is a good thing. There are also smaller schools in larger cities, so the reasoning is not entirely related. I believe that we cannot underestimate the closeness of housing and schooling. That's why, from an educational point of view, I'm also very sceptical about the centralization that's taking place in some places, and that the previous government didn't help to counteract. These include: on a tight local economy. It's about letting go so that more private schools can establish themselves. They're pretty much just establishing themselves in the big cities. Together, it also helps to deplete the education provision in our districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1721	‘The address paper and VG were able to tell on 1 January 2022 that Trondelag Police District has called in additional investigators after several cases of violence in close relations during Christmas. We know that children, young people and women have been particularly exposed to violence and abuse during the shut-downs under the pandemic. Once again in practice, society is shut down during a festival, where cases of violence in close relations are usually increasing, it is serious for those affected. How does the government work to prevent violence in close relationships at a time of pandemic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1728	I would like to thank the representative Foss for his commitment to a matter that is high on the government's agenda. Violence in close relationships is a serious crime that affects the vulnerable one in which one must be most secure, in his own home. We know that the pandemic can be extra demanding for those who already have a difficult everyday life. International research shows that economic and social crises are leading to an increased risk of family violence. The reasons can be many, but among other things economic uncertainty, stress, sickness and health concerns and reduced access to services are some of the reasons we see in that picture. The Korona crisis, and other things that society is in the process, have cost a lot of money, but there is no doubt that it has hit those who were already the most vulnerable, the hardest. The government is concerned that the pandemic and the measures against infection have made it more difficult to detect violence in close relationships and that the severity may increase. The threshold for seeking help may be higher when concerns about infection and the economy are added. It is therefore important to limit the negative consequences of the disease protection measures. Employees of child protection and crisis teams were given early status as personnel in a socially critical function. These offers have therefore not been closed under the pandemic, and this has been important. The government has stressed that kindergartens, schools and services for children and young people should be kept open as far as possible and sound as possible for the purpose of infectious diseases. A coordination group has been established at the level of the Directorate for the provision of services to vulnerable children and young people under the pandemic. The group reports regularly and closely follows the situation. Treatment of violent people is also an important prevention measure. Through the pandemic, there has been an increase in the appropriations for family protection and for Alternatives to Violence to increase the capacity of these services. For prevention purposes, it is important to reach out with information that the aid measures are open-ended in the pandemic and the disease prevention measures. Information campaigns on the openness and security of use of crisis centres and other relief services have been carried out several times. More help phones, including: the violence and assault line, has received its own chat services under the pandemic. During the pandemic, additional attention has also been paid by the police to this type of case. As far as practicable, the police have protected personnel who have worked in this field under the pandemic. The police in Trøndelag have provided extra resources to follow up family violence during the Christmas season, which shows that the police districts are taking these matters most seriously. In the Hurdal platform, the government is also clear that violence in close relations and sexual abuse is a priority throughout the criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1749	Thanks for the answer. The Hurdal Platform also states that the government is to present an escalation plan against violence and abuse against children and violence in close relations. In August 2021, the previous government presented a new action plan to prevent and combat violence in close relations, with more than 80 powerful and targeted action points. So my next question is: how will the Council of State follow up the action plan of the previous government, and when does the Council of State plan to present the announced escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1756	The fight against violence in close relations and the abuse of the very most vulnerable is a continuous struggle. I am pleased that the previous government was concerned about it, and for my part it is important as a new Minister of Justice to strengthen the effort even more. Already in the budget for 2022, to which we made an additional proposition, we added, among other things. into 200 million. extra to the police to prevent crime, as well as violence and abuse. We have strengthened the prosecution authority, and we will come back to when we want to present the concrete escalation plan. It is important to me that we work hard on it before it comes, so that we have a good and clear plan for the way forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1761	Thank you again for your answer. I follow up a little with an evaluation of the police reform, carried out by the Directorate for Administration and Economic Management, which concludes that the main impact of the reform is stronger professional environments, which improve the police's ability to deal with the most serious issues. My concern is that when the Council of State wants to set up 20 new places of employment, a goal without any professional justification, it will weaken the professional environments that are just so important to investigate this type of serious crime. The question is, how does the Council of State see the possibility for the police to investigate this type of crime being affected by the reversal of police reform and the weakening of professional environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1770	I wonder where the representative Foss has read that the police reform must be reversed. I'm not familiar with that. We have said that we want to evaluate the near-police reform, among other things. the fact that police presence throughout Norway is not good enough everywhere and that the reform may have been a cause for it. For us, it is important that we have police throughout the country who can be present in people's everyday lives, but also detect and investigate serious crime, such as violence in close relationships. These are types of crime that we unfortunately find in most communities – I think we can say with certainty. Then it is important that there is no difference between where you live, given the possibility of getting help and being discovered. It is a goal for the government that we must have a solid commitment to this throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1781	‘In December Elefun received tenders for the supply of approximately 300 drones from the Chinese company DJI to the police. The DJI has been sanctioned by the United States because of the security threat posed by the management of personal data by the company. Has the government assessed the safety risk associated with the purchase of DJI drones to the police and, where appropriate, what assessments have been made?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1788	The police started their drone project in July 2018, i.e. under the Solberg government, and cooperated with the Swedish and Finnish police, who already bought DJI drones to look at their experiences. After that, a contract was concluded on 1 October 2019 with Swedish Swedron AB which defines that drones from DJI are to be delivered. As the representative may know, these drones were deployed in the police in 2019 and 2020, during the Right Government, in a pilot project. We have this, among other things. have been documented in the media, where the then Justice Minister Monica Mæland of the Right is involved in the demonstration of the DJI queens, with whom the representative of the Right now asks questions two years later. Following the implementation of a pilot project, the police, together with the police authorities in Sweden, discussed a formal drone acquisition in March 2021. The Elefun AS contract was concluded in November/December 2021. For this government, national security is very important and underpins our work. That is why I asked for a statement from the police director on Friday 7 October related to the police's purchase of drones. The police director has underlined that there has been a concrete assessment of the land risk associated with the use of DJI drones, and the threat assessments of the PST have been used. The police have also carried out so-called in-process penetration tests through the acquisition, and the equipment from the DJI was the best part of these tests. This means, after what I understand, that DJ, among other things. was chosen because other suppliers had lower safety. I believe it is important that public authorities exercise caution when using drones from a Chinese manufacturer. That is why I have asked the Police Directorate to get the National Safety Authority to make a concrete assessment of how the police should behave in relation to information security when using drones. The dialogue with POD and NSM has already been established. I want to remind you of the purpose of using drones in the police. The police use only the drones in police operations, and they're never meant to be used in security-grade matters. The police use drones for e.g. site photography and search and rescue. Drones bring life. We received that, among other things. see below the rescue operations following the earthrace in Gordrum. On a case-by-case basis, risk assessments shall be carried out prior to all use of drones in police missions. The police director has informed me that it will now be clarified that there will be a concrete assessment of the possibility of refugee pioneering, so that the police are sure that their use of drones cannot facilitate any abuse of it. Finally, I would like to inform you that in the United States, as the representative mentions, drones from the DJI are used, among others. with the New York and Boston police. The same applies to police in Sweden and Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1807	I allow myself to remind the Council of State that there is a difference between a pilot project with some drones and a larger purchase of 300 drones. No one asks if they were used experimentally in Norway before, and that is not what my question is about either. What it's about, is that we've got new information that came close to Christmas. That's the background for this question. In this connection, I would like to ask the Council of State if she can explain which signals have gone from the NSM in connection with the purchase and choice of Chinese drones prior to the purchase to the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1814	To ensure that we discuss the matter on the right basis, I can first of all tell you what that information is about in December. I have received an opinion from the E-service that the US Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control on 16 December 2021 included the DJI in the US list of Chinese companies belonging to the Chinese military-industrial complex. It means that it is prohibited for Americans to buy or sell securities such as shares or debt securities of the company. This is about something other than what I believe the representative is trying to make it sound like. I am pleased that the POD will take an extra round with the NSM to be absolutely sure that the police use of drones is safe, but it is important that we have the information right in front of us when we are going to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1821	I don't think I need to be lectured by the Council of State on what this matter is all about. It deals with, among other things: the current state council, but there is also a safety risk that has been identified in this context. When the Council of State asks the NSM to make a new assessment, via the police director, the Council of State must also suspect that there is a safety risk here. We cannot regard it as anything but a confession that this has not been properly investigated in connection with the purchase. Will the State Council now make changes to the procedures to ensure that safety assessments have been provided for future purchases, so that there is no need for the opposition to take this up through the media to ensure that it has been properly done?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1828	After eight years of right-wing government, I think there is clearly a need to review the procedures relating to national security, and there is something the new government took on quite quickly after we entered the government premises in the autumn. We have seen several issues that have been examples of the need for a review of procedures in the ministry, and we want to go through the Security Act and make sure that we are well equipped with regard to national security. Then I show that this is an acquisition that started under the Right – it's almost Right-Drons we're talking about here. I think we have a common interest in Norway being safe and having good practice in this area. The fact that we get an extra insurance now from NSM that the use is completely OK does not have to suspect what has been done earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1838	«Under the pandemic, flexibility has been demonstrated in relation to the maintenance requirement of the foreign regulation for both foreign students and skilled workers. Will the Council of State ensure flexibility also for self-employed persons who, because of the pandemic, do not meet the maintenance requirement, in view of the fact that the pandemic is likely to persist?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1845	I repeat here what I said to the representative Wetrhus Thorsvik on a written question just before Christmas: The government has found no reason to derogate from the general rule on the maintenance requirement for self-employed persons so far under the pandemic. Nor did the government of Solberg, of which the representative's party was also a part. However, we are continuously considering the need for regulatory exemptions or adaptations as a result of the pandemic. The purpose of the maintenance requirement is, as you know, that foreigners coming to Norway should, as a general rule, be self-sufficient and not be a burden on the Norwegian welfare community. This is a fundamental principle on which there is broad political agreement. In order to obtain a residence permit as a self-employed person, it is essential that the entertainment will be essentially ensured through the acquisition establishment. Therefore, the economic basis of the activities is required. Any exemptions from the maintenance requirement must be assessed against the social costs it will have if the stranger is unable to obtain sufficient income after the pandemic and needs public support. The consideration of individual foreigners and of Norway’s needs for this type of labour migration must be balanced against the negative socio-economic consequences of renewing residence permits in cases where there is no longer a financial basis for the operation of the establishment. The Government, as mentioned above, makes an ongoing assessment of the need for exemptions in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1858	It should be an objective that Norway is an attractive country for entrepreneurs, so that we can draw capital and innovative power here, and then it is also important that we make it possible for more foreign talents to and will come to Norway. Then it is a terrible shame that under the pandemic, we have seen foreign entrepreneurs who, because of covid, have not reached the maintenance requirement for 2020, being thrown out of the country, even in isolated cases where income has been shown far above the maintenance requirement in the period before and after the pandemic’s greatest impact on their activities. The Council of State therefore answers that any exemptions from the maintenance requirement must be assessed against the social costs it will have if the foreigner is unable to obtain sufficient income after the pandemic and has to receive public support. It has, as mentioned above, been provided for both students and workers, and that is good, but there is no equivalent flexibility for self-employed people. Does the Council of State consider that there is a greater risk that self-employed people will not be able to obtain sufficient income after the pandemic than it is for skilled workers and students?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1865	It is true that during the first six months after the pandemic outbreak in Norway, some flexibility was demonstrated in the maintenance requirement for students and professionals. Among other things, made to remedy the very difficult situation these were put in as a result of the sudden shut-down of society, but it is now well over a year since these special arrangements were abolished. No more permanent exemption from the maintenance requirement has been introduced for those who have not met the requirement due to lower performance under the pandemic. The Government, as mentioned above, continuously assesses whether there is a need for specific rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1870	Founders represent a resource needed by a constantly evolving Norway, the availability of talent they are. The regulatory framework for the maintenance requirement is designed in such a way that entrepreneurs, such as: Kyle Havlicek-McClenahan is primarily a threat to the welfare state and Norwegian tax crowns, the main objective of which has been to protect against welfare tourism. Especially in the case of researchers and entrepreneurs, it is very unfortunate, precisely because Norway needs more of both groups, and then it is a challenge to get the most sought after of them to Norway. The regulation on the maintenance requirement under the corona allows us to get cases that contribute to giving Norway a poor reputation as a place of business, as well as weakening Norway as a destination for foreign students who would expect to remain in Norway after finishing their studies. Does the Council of State think it is right that we have a law that says that people who want to come to Norway to study and start their own companies are primarily a burden on Norwegian society and in the long term a threat to the maintenance of the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1877	Just to be absolutely sure that it is clear, I would like to state that I cannot comment on individual matters like the one mentioned so far in the posts of the representative. Norway has a number of instruments to meet the needs of start-ups, including: offer of grants and loans, guidance and networking of competences, and it is also possible for non-resident entrepreneurs to make use of it. Otherwise, I have to refer to the Minister of Industry in the field of business policy to Norway, and to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion in the field of labour immigration legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1886	So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-12.ana.ud436e1900	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
