ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e151	Honourable co-representatives! On May 3rd, 2020, former HFSP Leiv Stensland died from Odda, 85 years old. He was born on May 6th and wanted to have Geburst Day tomorrow. He represented the Labour Party and Hordaland for two periods, from 1985 to 1993, and was a member of the Social Committee, the Defence Committee and the Control Committee. Like so many oddities, Stensland grew up in an industrial worker family. He was born into the labour movement, and lived a long life as part of it with a number of professional and political responsibilities. From the outside, his eight years at Stortinget may appear to be the most important. It was still in Odda he felt at home, and it was like the Odda rapporteur that 'Life' his qualities really came to his right. The period from 1979 to 1985 coincided with a dramatic period in the history of the industrial community. Although the Tyssedal case did not end up like this to the local population at the time of hope, we later see the importance of the perfume melting plant coming into place. It is highly uncertain whether it would have happened without the local mobilization. In this fight, the rapporteur, Mr Stensland, was quite central. He also did so in another long-standing political battle, the Folgefonn tunnel, first as rapporteur, then as a magnificant when he helped to get the start-up grant in place. Finally, after 14 years as head of the tunnel company, he was able to see the first cars running through in 2001 and a new time beginning. Then it had been over four decades since the skilled electrician from Odda met at his first municipal board meeting. There's a red thread going through these years, through the things he fought for, and the jobs he took on: industry and jobs, health and well-being, community building. It's the red thread of the labor movement, and no one was more aware of that than Live Stensland. He belonged to a generation who knew what narrow ranks were about, and who had seen the importance of politics for a better society. In this way, the Life set its clear tracks. We bring peace to the memory of Leiv Stensland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e178	From the representative of Willfred Nordlund, notice is given that, from 1 February to 17 June, the permit granted shall be amended until 6 May. – This message is taken into account. From the representative Helge André Njåstad, an application for health leave is made from 10 May to 12 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternate shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Hordaland: Sigbjørn Framnes
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e206	Before the current map is considered, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e224	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e241	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e256	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Progress Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Green 5 minutes and the Christian People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e263	I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. I think it is very natural that so much space was devoted to Ukraine and the war in Ukraine and how the EU's overall response in the sanctions against Russia and aid to Ukraine is also Norway's policy to a large extent. From the right, we have given the government clear back coverage to increase support for Ukraine, including sending heavier weapons, and joining the EU's new sanctions packages. Courageous political leaders in several European countries, including our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland, have taken on record the consequences of the security policy situation and are now making rapid and sweeping changes in their own policies. I share most of the descriptions given in the presentation of developments in the EU and Norwegian vulnerabilities. As the Foreign Minister himself says: ‘At the same time, we feel that new EU initiatives and policies are not necessarily covered by our cooperation arrangements.’ In the debate following the Foreign Minister's foreign policy statement in March, I said that developments in the EU in recent years have gone very fast, and in the future it is likely that the pace will increase. Integration between countries will speed up. The EU will cooperate more closely in more and more areas, and many of these areas are crucial for Norway. This applies, inter alia, to: energy and climate, health and foreign and defence policies. At the same time, the EU's capacity to deal with countries that will not be fully involved will be reduced, as work in the EU is increasing. The statement describes: ‘Norway has to deal with the EU’s pace shift in key policy areas. It may also affect our working space in cooperation." I fully agree with that. But the Foreign Minister doesn't answer what the government wants to do with it. So she doesn't take the consequences of her own descriptions. The consequences of Norwegian exclusion are already well felt, but they are going to become even clearer in the future. Our vulnerability will increase, and Norwegian interests will be more demanding. The EEA Agreement is our lifeline to Europe. It was 30 years old on Monday this week and, together with other important cooperation agreements with the EU, is crucial for the Norwegian economy and well-being. The agreement provides for access to the internal market on a level playing field with EU countries. However, the agreement also has clear limitations. It is an economic cooperation agreement that does not cover the new areas of EU cooperation in which Norway will participate. We therefore use a lot of resources to get special arrangements and our own agreements in these areas. Where it has been demanding to reach this point, it is likely to be even more demanding in the future. It is well illustrated by the statement on the new EU health cooperation. Norway tries ‘in order to obtain an agreement ensuring Norwegian participation when the EU is now further developing and strengthening its cooperation in health preparedness.’ And on the other hand, ‘However, the outcome has not been obtained.’ The government has a clear right-wing support in working to become part of EU health cooperation. This is clearly in Norway's interest. However, the explanation’s description of the uncertainty is not unique to health cooperation. Nor do the EEA Agreement and the other cooperation agreements confer decision-making power on Norway. The agreement provides us with some potential for influence, and the possibilities we work hard for. When Norwegian government councils attend informal ministerial meetings in the EU, it is very good, but at the same time it is a paradox that a Norwegian government council is in a meeting room one day, while our diplomats in the EU are outside the same meeting room all the other days of the year. They are also not part of the permanent working groups that prepare the meeting at which our Council of State participates. Russia's brutal war in Ukraine has brought the EU countries closer together in a clear and coherent process. It is very positive, and it is absolutely necessary, but it has also accelerated the EU's own work on security policy. The previous government spent a lot of time and resources, along with Norwegian diplomats, getting Norway into the PESCO and the European Defence Fund, and that worked out. However, the war in Ukraine and the strategic compass that has now been adopted by the EU mean that foreign and defence policy will be central in the EU in the future. The statement gives a good description of this. Although our security policy pillar is NATO membership with collective defence and deterrence, it is such that: ‘longer than many other security policy dimensions, the EU has the means’. It is likely that more and more of the security policy that concerns us, especially in the north, will be discussed where we are not. Energy policy has become a very important issue in the EU. Several countries now want to become independent of Russian energy. Germany was out a few days ago and said they would stop buying Russian oil by the end of the year. Yesterday, President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said that the Sixth EU Penalty Package will introduce a total ban on all Russian oil. Within six months, crude oil shall be phased out and all oil products shall be phased out by the end of 2022. It's going to be very demanding, but it's absolutely necessary. Norway shall and must continue to be a stable energy supplier to Europe. At the same time, we must bear in mind that energy policy has become a serious security policy. Energy has always had security policy dimensions, but rarely as clear as it is now. Against this hindrance, and indeed against the account itself, it is more and more incomprehensible what is the line of government's European policy and how it will take care of Norwegian interests in cooperation with the EU in the future. While the EU has been speeding forward in cooperation, the government is looking back and is going to investigate the experience of EEA cooperation in the last ten years. That government should give priority to investigative resources is the impact of this extremely rapid and comprehensive change in the EU on Norway’s cooperation with the EU. How are we going to deal with the outside world and reduce the vulnerabilities? How do we relate to the fact that more and more decisions that have a strong impact on Norway are going to be taken where we cannot say yes or no? How are we to be influenced in areas of crucial importance to us? In short, how will developments in the EU affect us over the next ten years? The government is still repeating that it is not afraid of knowledge, and that is good. But then it is even more difficult to understand why the government clearly refuses to acquire knowledge about this and what the consequences, both positive and negative, would be for Norway of full EU membership. It is also worth noting that the government is committed to exploring the experiences of non-EU countries, that is, the United Kingdom and Switzerland, with agreements other than the EEA Agreement. One such experience is that the UK no longer has any formal means of influence, even though they cooperate with the EU in several areas. Another significant experience is that none of them participate in the internal market. I still have the benefit of hearing an explanation, good or bad, as to why the government will use the office and other people's time to do this. It has absolutely no relevance for Norway to look at how countries outside the internal market have arranged their cooperation with the EU, especially if we are to take the government seriously when it says that the EEA Agreement, and therefore our full participation in the internal market, should remain firm. It's been 28 years since we last had a debate on Norwegian EU membership. There is a completely different EU today. No one thinks we should have a new referendum tomorrow. But in the same way that our good Nordic neighbours reconsider their alienation in NATO, we also need to reconsider what our alienation in the EU means. We need to take the consequences of the major changes we have seen in the EU over some time and that are now shooting speed. We must start the discussion about what it means for us and our ability to care for Norwegian interests. We have to deal briefly with the world as it is. Europe is our continent. There's no good reason why we should let others decide developments here on our behalf.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e325	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very good and thorough presentation. Much has changed since the last time she made a similar statement, just a few months ago, because Europe is in a new situation, and of course there will also be a lot to say for Norwegian policy. Europe has changed primarily because it is a war on our continent. It will be one before and one after February 24. Our neighbouring country Russia has gone to an illegal war of aggression against Ukraine. The suffering is scarce to grasp, and millions of people are driven away. The war has led Europe to change at a furious pace. Germany will become a military power. Sweden and Finland are probably on their way into NATO, with the opportunities it offers for our own security policy. Russia has stopped the supply of gas to several European countries, and yesterday it became clear that the EU Commission will ban imports of Russian oil. This makes Norwegian oil and gas much more important, and we have to contribute what we can. In the long term, it will also speed up the pace of the renewable change. Millions of people have come out of Ukraine. We must welcome them, both those who are in the neighbouring countries and those who come here to Norway. We've imposed the most severe sanctions ever. The strength of our response is just that we're doing it together. Europe has come closer to Norway. What happens out there depends on our cooperation, whether it's in the policy of sanctions, the management of the pandemic, or efforts to achieve the climate goals. It is therefore important that the government pursues an active European policy in all areas. But Norway has also come closer to Europe. We have become a more important country for Europe. A clear picture was that last month the Minister of Foreign Affairs attended the EU’s Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting. It was the first time Norway was there in more than ten years. We have also become more important with our energy policy, and our position as Europe in the north has become even clearer. There are some developments in Europe that also give cause for concern, including: more polarisation and negative developments in human rights and democracy. In Poland, we know the LHBT-free zones, which have given more hate crime and racism. The choice in Hungary gives further cause for concern about the democratic and rule of law situation in the country. In other countries too, we see increased signs of radicalisation and polarisation. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was very clear on this in her presentation, and that she said she would take a particular look at this in the context of negotiations on EEA funds. This week it was 30 years since Stortinget adopted the EEA Agreement. Since then, it has been our main international agreement, and in the view of the Labour Party it has served Norway very well. It has ensured Norwegian industry and business access to the European market. Through changing governments over 30 years, the EEA Agreement has been our link with Europe. The government will carry out an investigation into how the EEA Agreement has affected us in the last ten years. We also had that ten years ago. It gave valuable knowledge. It's not to look back, but rather to learn from what practice has been like in the last ten years. The Nav scandal is perhaps the prime example of the need for more knowledge. We also want to look at how the EEA Action Space can be better used for the future. I think it could mean strengthening the EEA Agreement – that we both learn about and use the large space of action that we actually have. Sunday we marked that it was May 1st. It was a day of international solidarity that was marked throughout Europe. Everywhere, the main theme was solidarity with the Ukrainian people and the condemnation of Putin's war. In Norway, in one of the finest work songs, we sing: ‘No, now it’s more true than before! For if the union rakes and dies, awaits enemies enough who will split our flock. And our flame shall be astonished, and shall shine. It was extra strong words to sing this year, for now it really matters more than before. We have to be able to take care of the relationship. The war in Ukraine shows Europe at its worst, with killings, war crimes and conspiracy theories, but it also shows Europe at its best – that we are able to stand together when we have to, that we meet the war together across party borders, national borders and independent of NATO or EU membership. We have to show that we can keep going in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e355	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. I liked that the Foreign Minister referred to Churchill's statement that the core of democracy is the parliamentary system, a system inextricably linked to the nation state. What we are opposed to Norwegian EU membership uses to call the EU's democratic deficit is precisely welcomed by the fact that it is quoted. The lack of what Churchill calls the system that makes sure that the government and its members are accountable to elected bodies. This relationship with democracy, as Churchill so well describes, is perhaps the main explanation that a majority in Norway has twice chosen to refuse to join the European Union. The distance between elected and elected is too large. Democratic responsibility is being powdered. It becomes more difficult for citizens to reach the spaces where important decisions are taken. An active rule of the people is a value we have to rebuild. By being seagoing outside the EU, we have a short route between voters and elected representatives, and we can choose both cooperation and proximity. The backbone of the Minister for Foreign Affairs’ EU statement is gloomy. Russia's attack on Ukraine is a serious violation of international law. The national state of Ukraine is fighting its main fight against Russian aggression. The Minister of Foreign Affairs referred to what President Zelenskyj said when he spoke to the Stortinget: Ukraine is fighting to protect our state and our lifestyle – democratic and free with full protection of the rights and freedoms of all. The war has mobilized the international community, and it is important that one from Norway has chosen to cooperate closely with its partners and allies. Together with the EU, we have introduced a historically strong sanctions package that affects the Russian regime. We are participating in a British-led arms aid fund for Ukraine. We also contribute to extensive humanitarian work together with the UN, the Red Cross and the World Food Programme. There has also been close coordination between NATO and the EU, and security and defence are constantly being raised on the political agenda of each European country. Nevertheless, it is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said and stressed, to stress that NATO is the cornerstone of our security policy. It is NATO that provides the security guarantee that both we and our European allies need. The war has also seriously highlighted the dependence of European countries on Russian energy supplies. It is important that Norway can and should be a reliable supplier of oil and gas to European countries, but Europe has not prepared itself for the energy in which they are now active. Over many years, in particular, countries on the continent have become too vulnerable by replacing regulated energy and power with unregulated energy. There is a risk of much greater instability, and that also means that there is an open question as to when and whether new investments in renewable energy could fill the gap that years with a lack of focus on security of supply will leave in many EU countries. The conflict in Ukraine and current commodity prices have also shown us how important it is to control own food production and own energy production. It is and will be a fundamental issue that we must be able to ensure the basic needs of the Norwegian people for food, power and electricity. Our defence preparedness and our civil protection have also been highlighted, both in the short and long term. That is why the government's efforts in these areas are so important. Both the work of the Total Emergency Commission and the work of the Defence Commission have been highly updated. Both Sweden and Finland are now discussing NATO membership. There are decisions that will affect us and our policies in the future. The Central Party believes that Norwegian security policy has served to strengthen Nordic foreign and security policy cooperation. This has to be widespread, and that is why we are also concerned with the extended concept of cooperation in terms of both defence and security policy, economics, technology, climate policy and infrastructure. Sometimes I hear that the Centre Party, as opposed to Norwegian EU membership, cannot support the coordination of work or initiatives by the EU. That's a little bit of a mistake. We have always considered that international coordination of humanitarian work, reception of refugees and, in the current situation, support for Ukraine’s neighbouring country is necessary. We appreciate the work that can be done with EU countries. The same applies to sanctions, which seem better if they are implemented as much as possible. Many in Norway are now using the war in Ukraine as an opportunity to try to launch a new debate on Norwegian EU membership. To this I would say that the Center Party is constantly prepared for that discussion to be raised, but we do not see that the war itself is a basis for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e379	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. That was a good explanation, even though I disagreed with a part of both the principles, the starting point and the premise for what was said. It was basically a defence letter – a document of argument for Norwegian membership of the EU. I can mention four points. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that new initiatives and policies are not covered by our cooperation arrangements, that the EU's new tools for undermining democracy and the rule of law in the Member States are something Norway should be clear on, and that in the case of security policy instruments, the EU has the means to do so. The fourth point was that it is the EU that holds the countries of Europe together. It is fine for the government to assess the functioning of the EEA Agreement and the scope of action we have, but the rhetoric in the statement is marked by the fact that that investigation has already been carried out. I heard no arguments against possible enhanced cooperation in the EU or a more integrated Europe. There was nothing about national self-determination nor about how the EU could potentially deprive countries of their ability to pursue national policies in key areas. Nor was there anything about national identity, national culture, national history or national experience. It is also hoped that Poland and Hungary's outstanding efforts towards Ukraine's refugees will slightly dampen the EU's rhetoric. I repeat: Norway has also pursued a policy, a national policy, which has been criticised by the EU, where Norway has consistently referred to national self-determination – whether it is self-anxious, whaling or oil production. From a freedom of expression point of view, it is a paradox that the leading media house in Norway is owned by the state. The EU must be cautious about suffocating and making EU cooperation a faceless minimum common multiple, a meeting room for politicians. I also record that the Right is very busy – that we are going into the EU to join working groups – and it is strange that the inhabitants of one of the world's richest and most happy countries need EU cooperation in order to be even happier and do it even better. Such a starting point may create more conflicts than it solves, not least nationally. The starting point of the EU Agreement is economic cooperation, of which the name. Today, this cooperation is extended to a common European identity — a common identity that is a theoretical approach. This involves balancing the needs of the EU with the needs of the countries for national self-determination. It is generally accepted that cross-border exchanges of labour and sales and purchases of goods lead to higher economic growth. The idea is that economic interdependence also guarantees peace. Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine is a violation of this once and for all deeply anchored idea. Today, we are dealing with a totally irrational actor where well-being for its own inhabitants is subordinate. The leadership exercised by the President of Ukraine is unique and, in my opinion, qualifies his efforts at the Nobel Peace Prize. I can add the soldiers who are now fighting in the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol, which I just read about on the news. It is now all the way to the end, Russia will soon have control, and they will choose between surrendering or fighting to death. There's a terrible situation there. A possible NATO membership for Sweden and Finland will be very positive for NATO. They don't do this because they want to have Nordic cooperation, but they do because they want to have a protection under Article 5, so we don't have to be naive enough to believe that it's our cooperation or cooperation with Norway and Denmark that makes them want a Nordic defence policy. It is not said that it may not also be positive, but that is not the motivation. The EU's efforts to make decisions previously taken nationally to transfer decisions to Brussels will in the long term turn back on the Union. National countries are far older and have much deeper roots than the EU. National countries are unique, and they should be allowed to remain. A gradual approach is better than an ultimate approach. The war in Ukraine means that we must change our defence. We must then have two thoughts in our head at the same time – more allied presence, including better ability to accept allied forces, and we must strengthen and transform our own defense. Then we have to go through the structure, presence, weapons platforms, education, personnel, HV and not least the strengthening of air protection. Development of defence platforms requires economic cooperation in order to succeed technologically. Norway has joined PESCO and EDF. The time has now come to strengthen cooperation by ensuring Norwegian membership of the EU Secure Connectivity and GOVSATCOM. It's space technology, and it's economic and defence technology cooperation that strengthens us nationally. It also strengthens NATO. We should be involved in our EEA negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e400	Ukraine’s peace struggle against Russian aggression has also led to the return of sovereignty. That is good, because sovereignty is the framework of our democracy. Especially smaller states are under pressure from larger powers to organize, and thus democracy is also being undermined. It is appropriate to recall that the principle of sovereignty was and is the most important reason why the Norwegian people have twice said no to Norwegian EU membership, despite the persistent efforts of the Yes elite to explain this resistance. I would therefore like to thank the Norwegian people today for defending our democracy for all these years. The People's Union is still clearly opposed to a Norwegian EU membership. Not being a member of the EU gives us greater political space for action and room for people's will to be translated into political decisions in elected bodies. Nevertheless, the EU's market liberal policies, which are Treaty-based, have narrowed the limits of Norwegian democracy through the EEA association. The most controversial in recent years has been in the areas of employment, energy and rail. The market management of the energy sector, which has given us record high current prices for a while now, is largely the result of the connection to a European energy market and EU energy policy. When it comes to railway, we see something of the same thing. It is the EU's attempt to privatise and postulate the Norwegian railway sector that has led to changes in Norwegian railway policy under the previous government. The current government has said that one will engage in dialogue with the EU with a view to securing exemptions from parts of the destinations of the fourth railway package. For SV, it is absolutely essential to avoid any future rail passenger traffic in Norway being subject to EU coercive measures. The most important exceptions must be the exemption from competition and the submission under EU railway supervision. This will also mean that it will be easier to reverse the fragmented organisation of the Norwegian railway system and that they will be added their rights. Then I think it's in its place to also ask what's happening in this area from the government's side. From the outside, it may look like little happens, and there is a question today, I think, whether the government has given up this dialogue with the EU, or whether something is actually happening here. It is also a question of how the government follows up the work associated with working life. In particular, the minimum wage directive is a current issue right now. Is it EEA relevant or not? It will soon be agreed in the EU, and its content is essentially clear. Both the previous and this government say it is not EEA-relevant, but here a solid basis is needed to ensure this in the EEA Committee. Has the government done anything about this? In line with a so-called active European policy, it is defensive to expect the directive to be fully adopted and banks on the doorstep. Democracy is under pressure throughout the world and also in Norway. The distance between the population and the population and between the labour force and the economic elite is large and increasing. It provides groundwork for polarization, abstinence and social unrest. Even clearer than in Norway, we see this in many EU countries. That is not strange, because the EU is a driver of policies that create inequality and democratic deficits. The answer then is to increase the political space rather than reduce it even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e419	The Government shall have a reputation for initiating an EEA investigation. I believe that both the trade union movement, many red-green voters and also the Red are eagerly waiting to see the mandate and also who will be heard, i.e. the composition of the sample. It would also be very strange if Norway, of all countries, were to get to the bottom of what it has meant to say from us from as much of the right to self-government as it is the EEA Agreement. Anniken Huitfeldt referred to Winston Churchill's words from the pulpit, so I will allow myself to read up the whole quote from him: In our parliamentary system, we are able to ensure that people's will comes to the fore evenly and continuously, and so the authorities and ministers become people's servants and not their masters. Any violation of this principle encounters widespread protests and resistance. As far as the EU is concerned, the people’s will came to the word twice and both times with strong defeat for the EU’s citizens. The Norwegian people despite the country's most powerful politicians and all the big media and voted no. If we were to believe the polls, the result of an EU vote today would be like the two previous intersections. It may be that many in Norway — most of them, perhaps all — are proud of the national regime we have, of the right of self-determination that has been fought, even against powers that were once greater and more powerful than us. This has always underestimated the political authority in Norway – that we built our country by mobilizing from below, against leaders and against bureaucrats who did not see themselves as the people's servants. An example of this is our working life. Look at the struggle that trade unions have waged, which gives workers both rights and conditions, which unfortunately is a distant dream for workers in many other countries. However, see also how little it helps when EU directives on free movement of labour are implemented and we see that cruise ships are ultimately built by guest workers who are paid down to NOK 30 per hour. In this context, Red promotes what is required by the LO Congress for the EEA study, that it examines how Norwegian labour regulations can go ahead of the EU's own rules. In line with the requirements of the Joint Undertaking, the Committee would like to examine whether the ESA and the EFTA Court of Justice are best placed to settle issues relating to working life or whether there are better ways of doing so. Luckily, our Nordic brothers in Iceland have outreached the course for us. They've fenced about self-government. Their EEA law states that EU rules shall only be recognised to the extent appropriate. According to the Norwegian version, EU rules should take precedence in any case. Red proposes that the EEA study examine how Norway could follow the example of Iceland. The Council of State addressed energy security, and that is illustrative of what we mean, and the difference between that and the position of EU citizens. Norway has had an exchange of power with Sweden every year. When they have problems, we send electricity to them at Swedish prices, and when we have little, they send electricity to us at Norwegian prices. This is cooperation for the best of all. We make decisions about ourselves, and we help each other at the same time. But to give us control over power to the Acer, that's something else. It is also something else to build a clean export cable to the United Kingdom, which shifts money to British and Norwegian network companies, gives Norwegians less advice and weakens the conditions for our industry. The government has now promised to engage in dialogue with the EU and the United Kingdom to avoid discharges of water storage plants as the power flows out of the country. I would like to use the opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has the government started this dialogue? Now the water reservoirs are as empty as they haven't been in 20 years, and the power prices are now higher than they were in the big crisis this winter. So who has the government contacted now? Has it had dialogue? And, not least, what has been agreed on? I'm addressing Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e440	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e445	Thank you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the statement she made on Tuesday. As usual, she gave many wise reflections on how the EU is becoming more and more important to Norway, and that the EU has evolved seven miles since Putin’s invasion of Ukraine began. She made a flaming speech on the importance of the EU for Norway, including: by bringing forward the pace shift that we see from the EU in key policy areas, where we know that we need transnational cooperation, climate and environment, security and defence policies. She also quoted the Prime Minister, who says that the EU's normative, economic, political and legislative powers have never been stronger. She also pointed out that in the last two months the EU has proved more effective and action-oriented than hardly anyone, even in Brussels, I think, could have imagined. The Minister for Foreign Affairs describes an EU that is changing, an EU that shows its relevance as a security policy actor, an EU that defends freedom and democratic values. It would have been interesting to imagine what the situation we are currently facing would have been if we had not had an EU, regardless of our relationship, if there was no supranational body that actually had the opportunity to respond and coordinate countries. Hearing this part of Huitfeldt's presentation was almost like reading the party trap of the Foreign Minister, Raymond Johansen's chronicle in the Evening Post on March 27th, but after that, the similarities between the posts also ended. Where Raymond Johansen said that we need to look at the political opportunities and the space for action in the EU, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we need to look at the political space in the EEA. Where Johansen said that Norwegian exclusion has become a democratic problem, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that we need to be more effective at caring for Norwegian interests in cooperation with the EU. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs has come to the Stortinget to talk about is the government’s investigation of the EEA action space and of alternatives to the EEA, which is not about assessing closer integration with the EU but rather about a weaker relationship. With respect to reporting: this is not the answer to the challenges facing neither Norway nor Europe. That is not even the answer to the development that the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself outlines in his statement. This confirms a challenge pointed out on several occasions, namely that the Norwegian EU debate has not taken on board the changes that have taken place in the EU since 1994, since the annexation of Crimea, since Brexit or now the continuation of Putin’s war in Ukraine. We know the EEA space for action, and we know that all non-membership options will give us a solver and a less dynamic relationship with the EU, unless Norwegian influence on what is happening in the EU. For the Left, it is important that we now have a common factual basis that will make this EU debate, which the Foreign Minister himself recognises to be coming, more nuanced and more factual. I'm not going to stop an EU discussion. – This was the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Left’s proposal for a new Norwegian EU investigation. I'm not so afraid she'll stop a debate. I don't think any of us really control that debate, whether it comes or not, but what I'm afraid of, is that she doesn't help us get a fact-based debate in which developments that have taken place in the European Union come out properly. In other contexts, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has shown himself to be very concerned with ensuring a good factual basis, and the Prime Minister himself has answered my questions about the government’s EEA investigation in the following way: We have nothing against summarising the experience of related countries with their relationship with Europe. That, I think, is something I can inform the debate. Some of our neighbouring countries have EU membership, others have agreements with the EU other than Norway. – However, despite this statement by Mr Støre, the government does not investigate the experience with other countries, such as the United Kingdom. Sweden or Finland, which have EU membership, but instead focuses on countries that have a looser relationship than the EEA, such as Switzerland and the United Kingdom. It is quite difficult for me to understand this reluctance to provide the relevant knowledge base, and I hope that the Foreign Minister can explain this in his statement. We are no longer in 2012 when the previous European investigation came, and we are definitely not in 1994 when we could last vote on Norway's relationship with the European Union, five years before I got my own vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e460	Thank you for a good discussion, which is largely influenced by what I invited to do, about how we should take care of Norwegian interests towards the EU, but also that there are different opinions about the EU in this Chamber. It is in the Norwegian people, and so is it in my party. The purpose of the investigation I am going to present tomorrow is not, as Melby says, that we should establish a more loose relationship with the European Union, but that we should find out what is our room for action within the EEA Agreement. I think it's a little special when the Right has been in government for eight years: if it's so unfair to know why and what's the benefit of EU membership, it should have been investigated in these eight years. So it's a question that only comes up after the right has left the government, and the same thing is going to apply to the left. I believe this will strengthen the EEA Agreement, because we know that in the field by area, we need to find out what is the Norwegian Space for Action. This was particularly true in the Nav scandal, and it is true in very many issues in the field of working life. If, in the face of various political conflicts in Norway, we always say that we cannot do this for the sake of the EEA Agreement, and do not find out what is the Norwegian Space for Action that enables us to strengthen the rights of workers, I believe that we are weakening the connection to the EEA Agreement. That is the basis for me wanting a wide-ranging investigation into how this cooperation works today. If it was the case that members of the former government thought it was completely insensitive in the light of the pandemic to explore EU membership as an alternative, they could do so. There is a discussion that will take place in any case, but the purpose now is to find out how we can use the space for action within the EEA Agreement, and how it affects us differently. There was also opposition to the previous EEA investigation that the red-green government had for some years ago, so it is symptomatic of the criticism coming from the right-hand side that it is not seeking to find out how this agreement actually works. I got many specific questions during the discussion here. I can't answer everyone, but I can say one more thing. We are not going to dampen our rhetoric towards Hungary and Poland. I think it is extremely important for the European Community and the fight we are fighting for democracy in Ukraine that we are clear on these issues. It will also be made clear when we renegotiate the EEA Agreement, that there is cooperation on some important values, and an independent rule of law is a very, very central value for democracy to function at all. With regard to the minimum wage directive, I would say that this is not yet EEA-relevant, but we have to look at it until this directive is presented, and we have expressed the same thing as Sweden and Denmark in this context. With regard to the Railway Directive, we have made the Norwegian position clear. The Railway Directorate has started negotiations with Vy and the Fly train on direct allocation, and this is within the scope of the opt-out of the fourth railway package. It's not given that we need an exception for that. So I want to say that Soreide says we have no answers in terms of good forms of cooperation. I believe we take care of Norwegian interests every day, and we are also applying for new agreements where it is in Norwegian interest. Not least in the area of health, I would like to stress that cooperation has been close and close, because it is in Norway's own interest. The EEA Agreement stands on a rocky footing with this government. I would also like to say that when there are areas that are not covered by the EEA Agreement, we are looking for other forms of cooperation. It is true that the previous government left the framework for the so-called defence fund, but this was pushed into place by the Stortinget – by the Progress Party and the Workers' Party – when we adopted the long-term plan of defence. It does not hold to negotiate in place a framework, one must actually go into the defence fund as well, and fortunately we agreed to that when the long-term plan was adopted in Stortinget almost two years ago. The war in Ukraine is changing a lot, but it does not change our responsibility to safeguard Norwegian interests. That's why I don't think that's the basis for what the Right comes from criticism here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e486	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e491	Yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs could tell that tomorrow is the day when the selection will be presented. I have previously asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs what more precisely should be the mandate of the sample. Then the foreign minister here said that she was not used to this being the subject of inquisition in Stortinget. However, we may have come a little closer to the mandate now, although it is said that there has been a month-long draw between Støre and Vedum on what should be the mandate – or perhaps more precise: what should not be investigated. Is it possible for the Foreign Minister to guarantee that the investigation will not seek to establish a more secure relationship with the EU than we have today, and possibly a termination of the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e498	It is not that there have been dragonfights on this mandate. There has been a good dialogue, and it will not be delayed at all. So it's coming, and it's being presented tomorrow. I will not read the mandate until it goes to the King of State Council. It's quite common, and it was also common in the previous government. That's why I'm not going to rule out one or the other on a general basis. You almost have to wait for the investigation to come. But what's absolutely fundamental – and this, of course, makes Southeide very good – is that the EEA Agreement forms the basis for this government platform, just as it did for the last eight years we ran. So that she wants to so doubt about this, I believe there is absolutely no basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e505	It is with respect not to report my doubts about this, because if it is the case that the EEA Agreement is based, it should be a narrow matter for the government to say that it is not really such that we are to establish a more loose relationship with the EU, or that the EEA Agreement is in any way at risk or at risk. I record that the Minister of Foreign Affairs says that it has not been a drag fight or a delay, but a good dialogue. We have now heard about and waited for this sample and its composition for several months. It was supposed to be just over Christmas, but now we're in May. But my second question is about the Minister of Finance. He was out in the Newspaper on 29 March and said that the EU has become less important. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs share the Minister for Finance’s assessment of the EU’s importance?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e512	The areas to which the representative refers are asked. In the case of vaccine cooperation, the EEA Agreement was very important for Norway. With regard to defence and security policy, it is likely that, with regard to the funds used by NATO defence countries, a smaller share goes to the EU after the United Kingdom left NATO. Now, when we're going to channel money into a weapons aid fund for Ukraine, we're going to do it in cooperation with the United Kingdom. So everything depends on the area to which the representative refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e517	Now, I guess the United Kingdom didn't leave NATO, it was the EU they left, but...
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e522	President, I'll have to straighten it out right away!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e527	It's okay! We talked about liberal values we want to promote towards the European Union, but it is a paradox, as I have mentioned on the platform sometimes, that freedom of expression is such a liberal value, whereas we have thus established a state-owned media company in Norway called the NRK, which claims to be neutral. You could say that, but there are some people who would think otherwise. My question goes to what I also mentioned in my post, namely that in addition to EDF – as the minister and I worked to become a member of – we should become a member of the EU's Secure Connectivity and GOVSATCOM. It is crucial for satellites, space activities and not least many Norwegian companies that are now growing, so I hope it can be recorded as a requirement in the negotiations regarding the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e536	Yes, then I take note of that recording from the representative of the Progress Party. I am deeply sorry that I have mixed the EU with NATO. The United Kingdom has not left NATO, has never had plans to leave NATO and has no discussion about leaving NATO. That's the EU they went out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e543	Is that the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e548	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e554	Okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e559	Before the elections, the Labour Party supported the demands of the LO Congress that Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and labour law should prevail over EU rules and also voted in favour of this as we promoted the proposal in Stortinget in the previous period. It is also the government's platform to take the fight for the Norwegian model of working life by exploiting the space for action in the EEA Agreement. My question is about the government, based on both previous electoral commitments, voting in the Stortinget and also the platform, can confirm that it is included in the mandate to examine how Norway can ensure such primacy of collective bargaining agreements and labour law, in line with the requirements of the LO Congress. Will this be part of the mandate? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e566	I think I almost have to answer the same thing as I answered the representative Eriksen Soreide, even if the question was completely different. It is such that it is to be presented to the King in the Council of State tomorrow. Saying what it actually contains won't be right for me. If you wait like that. 24 hours, I'm going to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e571	So I'm going to try it a little bit differently. I assume that the Council of State agrees with the LO Congress that it is important to examine precisely whether there can be a preference for collective agreements and labour law when it conflicts with EU rules. There have been several cases in previous years that have shown that this could conflict and that Norwegian workers have been found to have been overrun by EU rules on free movement. What I would like to ask then is whether the Council of States believes it is important to examine whether it is possible to give such precedence within the EEA Agreement. We know that it has a general primacy over Norwegian legislation if it comes into conflict, but other countries, such as Iceland, have a different type of implementation of the EEA in their legislation, which I referred to in my main post. Do the Councils see the need for this to be examined from the Norwegian side as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e578	What I'm concerned about is securing Norwegian workers' rights. I have read the investigations that were made from No to the EU when we signed the EEA Agreement at the time, where it says that the Norwegian working life model could almost not be maintained if we joined the EU. It has proved to be a fundamental error. We have managed to take care of the Norwegian model in various ways, but in some places it has been challenging. This is not only due to the EEA Agreement, it is also due to labour immigration in general, where there is always a risk that wage and employment conditions will deteriorate for those who come as migrant workers. This is precisely why it is so important to maintain an organised working life and also to do what the government proposes, namely to introduce collective redress law, so that we can create precedents on different issues. Now I do not agree with the representative Moxnes that Iceland has a completely different interpretation in the field of working life than we have, but the most important thing for me is to examine what is the scope of action in the EEA Agreement, so that we can take care of employees' interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e587	I am very pleased that the government has put itself on the line that we largely end up in EU sanctions against Russia because of the war in Ukraine. There is no doubt that the more they are involved, the more effective sanctions will be, and we must not erode the penal code with many exceptions, so that there will be loopholes that allow the Russians to continue their usual economic activity. At the risk of getting a little stuck in the disc, I'm going to repeat a question that Ola Elvesuen asked yesterday, because I didn't realize we got an answer to that particular question. It is about fishing vessels and exemptions from the port ban. The Minister for Foreign Affairs replied that there was room in the legislation of the EU for that exemption, and I have no reason to dispute that, but the question I want to answer is: Is there any EU country that has introduced a similar general derogation for all fishing vessels and for any repairs and such as they carry out in their country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e594	We have not applied for exemptions from the port ban – with the exception of the Svalbard situation. What was the situation when we got these sanctions was that the EU regulation in this area was unclear. Furthermore, exemptions for all fishing vessels were considered necessary for the purposes of bilateral fisheries cooperation and the sustainable management of stocks in the Barents Sea. Just how the other countries have defined this, I almost have to come back to. It's about how heavy ships are, how they can load, so how the different countries have practised this regulation, I almost have to come back to. In the implementation of the port ban in Norway, some adjustments were made. The first was, as I was at the outset, that the ban is limited to ports in mainland Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e603	Another question: The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself mentioned in his statement that we are now contributing to the fund for which the United Kingdom is responsible, in order to help Ukraine, among others. to acquire weapons. We also know that the EU has a corresponding fund. I could simply imagine hearing a reason why we are contributing to the UK fund and not to the EU fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e608	The answer to that is that we are not a member of the EU, and therefore we want to have greater influence over the UK Defence Fund. But it is also very closely coordinated with the EU, and that is why we have chosen the UK Defence Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e613	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e618	I will first begin by thanking the Council of State for an excellent statement that she made here two days ago, and also for her contributions today. This is the big change in most areas after Russia went to the war of aggression against Ukraine. Everyone in Europe notices the changes in one way or another, including countries and people far outside Europe. The war did not divide Europe, and the war was not met with indifference. The war brought Europe together more than ever in a joint condemnation of Russia's actions, and the war led to a common European action. We received the most comprehensive and intrusive sanctioning package ever implemented by the EU, and we have joined it. We have joined it because we support Ukraine's fight for freedom and democracy, and because we believe that together we are strong. Norway’s contribution to Ukraine through sanctions, humanitarian aid, reception of refugees, arms and money support is largely coordinated through the EU and our relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement. The war has changed the security policy image and has a profound impact on Europe and Norway in everyday life. Let me say that NATO is the cornerstone of Norway's defence and security policy, and the war in Ukraine has led to NATO, like Europe, being more united than ever. NATO and the EU have worked closely together during the war and have been able to coordinate and interact in a good way. The EU has expanded and strengthened its cooperation on security and defence in recent years. We see that many EU countries are now strengthening their defence budgets. Norway is involved in this strengthening of both our own defence budget and our cooperation with the EU through the EEA Agreement. The European Defence Fund will contribute to strengthening the Norwegian defence industry, which in turn means strengthening Norwegian defence capabilities. And here one has to add that it was the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that had to put some pressure on the then government to get participation in the fund when the current long-term plan was adopted. It is also reassuring to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain that we have had close dialogue with the EU in the preparation of the EU’s strategic compass, and that we are referred to as the EU’s closest partner. Disinformation and false news are an increasing problem for open democracies and break down trust in society. The war in Ukraine has also reinforced this. Here, the EU is making considerable efforts to combat disinformation, and I am both pleased and satisfied that the Norwegian foreign service has good cooperation with the EU’s external service on this matter. I am convinced that good diplomatic relations, international cooperation and trade agreements are important contributors to peace in the world, but we have now seen that some countries export too much important goods to Europe, making them vulnerable, especially in relation to countries with distorted ideas about their own worldview. Russia’s huge export of oil and gas to European countries challenges the EU. In order for Putin’s war machine to lose its source of funding, the EU must become less dependent on Russian oil and gas. Norway must contribute here, and Norway will contribute in this area. Although we are in the phase-out period, Europe still needs safe and predictable supplies, and Norway is important here. The energy challenge for Europe after the outbreak of war causes us to set the pace of the green shift. The EU plan, REPowerEU, underlines the increased ambitions of the EU. Norway, Norwegian industry and business can contribute here. The development of hydrogen, sea wind, carbon capture and storage, minerals, batteries and green shipping will be important for Norway and the EU's ability to achieve climate targets. Close and industrial cooperation with the EU is important for Norwegian industry and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e640	What we are witnessing in Europe today lacks historical similarity, and that is because of Putin's ruthless invasion of Ukraine. We see that countries are gathering around the ideological community on which the European Union is based. There is a cooperation organisation with 27 Member States, and the aim is to promote peaceful cooperation between countries in a number of areas such as public policy, health, the environment, the economy, migration and security policy. It is essential that we maintain close cooperation with the EU in the future. It is good to note that the Council of State made it clear in its statement that the government has been in close dialogue with the EU in the preparation of the new strategic compass for the Union and that the Council of State is formulating itself in a way that demonstrates that it will in the future be moving towards a stronger and more integrated EU in the field of security. Penalties, investments in energy independence and closer coordination constitute some of the practical aspects of this cooperation. None of these will have a lasting effect unless the community of values is safeguarded. We can't pretend that this community is taking care of itself. It requires a continuous effort. But we're outside, we're in the hall, and we're far from having a hand on the wheel. I have been so privileged to be the Head of Delegation to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. This year the historic decision was taken in that body to exclude Russia as a result of the invasion of Ukraine. Suspension in 24 hours, exclusion in 28 hours – who would have thought that? 46 countries stood behind. Not all countries in Europe exhibit the same upsurge in principles as democracy, anti-corruption or an independent rule of law. Where there is a willingness to improve, we need to demonstrate the ability to work together towards one common goal. This is true in the Council of Europe, and it is true in the EU. If we are to be able to contribute, we must also participate. In the presentation of the Council of State, one could get the impression that the government has this will. The truth as I see it is that it is a little difficult to grasp exactly what the government wants to implement, given Norway's future relationship with the EU. The title becomes an experience of perplexity, indecision and lack of willingness to acquire knowledge – knowledge of what to win and what to lose through EU membership. Today's time is different than 28 years ago. It's also different than eight years ago. In my personal view, it is important precisely to measure the competences needed against what we currently have through the EEA Agreement. The council even thought the question was uninteresting. I have to say that I agree with those journalists in the class struggle who reiterated that they actually thought this question was very interesting. In the same interview, the Council of State informed that it had notified the investigation of alternatives to the EEA, as promised in the Government Platform, to reflect experiences gained as a result of the war in Ukraine. Yesterday, during the Question Time, the Council of State replied that this investigation would begin as early as this week and that the mandate would come tomorrow. I believe it is now time for the government to provide some significant clarifications. How will the investigation reflect the needs for closer European cooperation in the field of security? How will the government ensure that Norway is given a place in Europe to implement the necessary deepening of its security policy cooperation? We can't walk around Norway, here at home, and close our eyes to the seriousness of what's happening. Therefore, let me conclude by pointing out the situation in Norway. In Sweden and Finland, the submission of NATO applications is being prepared. Both countries are fully members of the EU. Denmark shall hold a referendum on 1 June to end its defence cooperation in the EU. We can see a strongly modified security architecture around us. In order to safeguard our security and our interests, we must also have a government that is working to safeguard our position. I thank you for a good presentation, and I also thank you for several good actions – which we have supported – on Norwegian contributions, both to help Ukraine and to stop Russian aggression.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e668	First, I would like to thank our foreign minister for the presentation. Russia's attack on Ukraine is a serious violation of international law. The Russian attack is an attack on democracy and on our values of freedom, democracy and human dignity. In Norway, most of us take democracy and peace for granted, but recent developments in Europe have given us a brutal reminder that neither democracy nor peace are obvious. We have to remind ourselves how important these values are, but also how vulnerable democracy is. This is what we see, for example. in Hungary, where the country is probably taking a step closer to undermining democracy itself with the recent re-election of Viktor Urbán. Hungary is not alone. Several other countries, led by democratically elected Heads of State, have gone in an authoritarian direction over the last decades. However, a point of light is that association with authoritarian leaders seems to have lost its appeal in several European countries. We see that many politicians in Europe who have openly sympathized with Putin, now choose another way, or actually sit quietly in the boat. National self-government, self-determination, popular rule and democracy were some of the heaviest arguments against Norwegian membership of the EU in 1994. Through the referendums, the Norwegian people chose sovereignty over the rule of bureaucracy and supranationality in Brussels, with the opportunity to influence their own everyday lives. Norway has cooperated closely with our European partners in the current situation. Together with the EU, we have introduced a historically important and powerful sanctions package against Russia. It has been important to stick with our European colleagues in order to ensure that the sanctions are strong and effective. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, Norway has provided substantial material, economic and medical assistance. Norway has also cooperated closely with the EU and has taken part in the EU Civil Protection Mechanism through the EEA Agreement. Nevertheless, current power prices, commodity prices and the war in Ukraine have underlined the importance of control over own food production, fisheries resources, power, oil and gas resources. The crisis has also underlined the importance of being able to take its own decisions, which, in the light of our neighbourhood with Russia, are important to our military and political security. There is no contradiction between close cooperation with European countries. Language and culture, thinking about democracy and human rights, security policy issues — and now humanitarian work and the reception of refugees — bind us together. Our membership in NATO is still the cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy and is our unambiguous security guarantee. It's been over 70 years. We also need to confirm in future that Norway is NATO in the north. Norway, as a clear, independent nation in Europe, with high safety significance, will make an important contribution to the NATO security policy strategy. The debate on NATO membership now taking place in Finland and Sweden underlines that the EU does not meet their security policy needs. Nordic cooperation alone, for which some parties are concerned, will also not meet these needs. Nevertheless, Norway is well served by strong Nordic cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. It will be further strengthened if Sweden and Finland choose to enter NATO. We now have both legs up in Europe's largest refugee stream since World War II. Russia's atrocities have sent over 12 million people into refugees, vulnerable people, many of them children. Norway is now working closely with the EU to get an overview of the situation, which in turn provides a good basis for our own decisions. In addition, we have opened up some of the EEA funds to address the handling of Ukrainian refugees in the recipient countries. It is very important that the use of EEA funds is not rigid but takes on board the changed realities in several of our recipient countries. We have joined the resolution on the closure of ports for Russian vessels and the ban on Russian road transport. However, the prohibition does not cover fishing vessels and will not normally cover search and rescue vessels or research vessels, which are important issues for Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e693	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e698	I would also like to start by thanking the Secretary of State for a very good report. I believe in the visions of the Foreign Minister and her commitment to Europe. At the same time, she drags a heavy baggage into her government, a baggage that has a name: the centre party. While Minister of Industry Vestre is enthusiastically jumping around and saying ‘heile Norway is exporting’, Minister of Finance Vedum is just as enthusiastic about saying ‘no to the hall of Norway’. And while the death penalty from the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister in this Chamber is that ‘the EU’s normative, economic, political and legislative powers have never been stronger’, the death penalty from Minister of Finance Vedum in Dagbladet was a short time ago that the EU has become less important. Our new municipal minister has already been honoured with the prize of Denmark’s No to the EU for his intense EU resistance and is among those who applaud Brexit. We simply have a government running in two stages of its European policy, and that is only the one track we have heard in the distribution to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Another observation: At the same time as the EU leaders joined the joint crisis meeting on 24 February because Russia invaded Ukraine, Norwegian government councils from a certain government party were placed on the seat bench in Viken County and celebrated the breakup of the county. To put it at the forefront: while the big project for the EU is now bringing together Europe, from Ukraine to Ireland, we have a government party that has as its big project to split up Norway because the cultural differences are so great between people in Eastfold and people in Buskerud. This is not just an observation; this is about focus. It is about what we are in the policy of – bringing together or splitting up? It's about using this critical time in our little part of history to take the light, unnecessary steps backwards or the heavy, necessary steps forward. One of the really heavy and hugely demanding steps that the EU is now taking, at the top of everything else, is the RePower EU – making Europe independent of Russian fossil energy as quickly as possible, by 2030. The Commission has now sent requests to each Member State to establish a plan for replacing Russian gas. Each country must establish requirements for concrete measures to increase renewable production, introduce an additional measure, build ports for LNG ships, etc. Unfortunately, no such letter has gone to Norway, because we're not in. This is where we need to be stronger. In fact, we in Norway must also help to free Europe from the fuel Russia needs to continue the war in Ukraine. We need to connect and notify ourselves that we are going to be part of the solution with the RePower EU in both the short and long term. In the short term – more gas at risky and reasonable prices. In the long term – let us know that we will force and vigorously step up our sea-window building with hybrid cables to the continent. It is about solidarity, security and climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e711	I'll continue a little bit where I left off. I'm not sure I'm spending the 3 minutes, but it'll show up. I call for a clearer declaration from the government on European policy that it intends to make, and the vision it has for Norway's relationship with the EU. I sat and listened to the debate and heard the Central Party representative Arnstad say that it is too far from ordinary people, and that it is difficult to reach. Yes, when you're in the hall, it's like that – you can't get there. Decisions are not reached in closed rooms when you are not in the European Union. I see that, but Arnstad said there were too many decisions in closed rooms. Of course it's closed room when we're not there when we're not there. When we don't want to be involved, other decisions are made. When you don't want to get involved, it becomes a random kindness that can sometimes happen to us. I read on the first page of the Evening Post a couple of days ago that it was a random kindness that caused us to have access to vaccines so quickly, since we were in the periphery of the EU Member States because we had the EEA Agreement. There was no guarantee. We could have risked being in the same queue as any other country that was a neighbouring country to the EU, but it was an arbitrary goodwill. That's when we're at it, when we don't want our hand on the wheel, and when we don't want to commit. The centre party won't even commit to a higher level of competence on what we can lose and win, because nothing has happened in 28 years. Nor has anything happened in 8 years, stating that it should have been done by the previous government – an EU investigation. But something happened on February 24th in 2022 that made most of what we've seen in international organizations have had a different debate. It's not hard to understand that the Hurdal platform is binding, but what I don't understand is the need not to want to know, not to know, not to want to see if anything has happened. It'll be a bit like stabbing your head in the sand or your head under your arm and arm in a tie, as a songwriter says. We want vaccines, we want to have access to competences in the environmental field, and we want to be involved in sanctions when it really applies, but to design, decide, commit – we stand at the moment. Yeah, they're far from ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e726	In 1948, the same year as Winston Churchill spoke to the Stortinget, he agreed to take the initiative for both the European Movement and the European Community we know today as the European Union. After a brutal, devastating world war in Europe, he understood that the freedom, independence and self-determination of a country depend entirely on trade and committed interaction between democratic, free and peaceful nation states around him. I can almost hear Churchill rotating in his grave when the Communist Moxnes quotes his words on free debate and parliamentaryism. 74 years later, we see Ukraine's President Zelensky both ask the United Kingdom for help and assistance and also make an application to join the European Community. I would like to see the Centre Party, SV and Red Professor Zelenskyj on national self-determination. The EU shows a new and concrete relevance as a security policy actor. The Foreign Minister said that Putin's brutal war has strengthened the European community of values and European cohesion. The natural consequence of this is that Norway should join the European Community. The Prime Minister, in his speech to the Stortinget on 3 March, said: ‘The European Union’s normative, economic, political and legislative powers have never been stronger.’ The natural consequence of this is not to try to get away from the European Community but to apply. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that when Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia turn towards the EU as a geopolitical port, Norway will set up its assistance to these countries in a way that supports their integration into European cooperation. So we're going to help others into a community that we choose to be outside. The Minister said that Norway is linked to the new EU initiatives on security and defence as they are adopted. The best thing would have been to be involved in developing these initiatives. The EU also has both the will and the means to implement the green shift. Cooperation with the EU contributes to Norwegian industrial development and value creation, said the Minister, and continued: ‘We agree with the EU to look together at how we can make it easier for Norwegian companies to contribute to greening in Europe.’ The easiest thing to do was to register completely. The Minister said that in order to be the best equipped before the next health crisis, we are therefore trying to get an agreement that ensures Norwegian participation when the EU is now developing further and strengthening its cooperation in health preparedness. If we had been inside, we wouldn't have had to try. On the one hand, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that European cooperation is more important than for a long time, on the other hand that Norway feels that new EU initiatives and policies are not covered by our cooperation arrangements. The consequence of this should be obvious: Norway must become a full member of the European Community on which we rely. I feel that the foreign minister's statement is really a very good request to be just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e756	I would like to highlight the part of cooperation with the EU on industrial policy. We're going through a green shift. Europe is at the forefront of this, and there are huge changes in market conditions for Norwegian industry, where we need to seize the opportunities. Firstly, we see that with the sea wind bet we have to be able to let Norwegian industry also sell into the North Sea network and go into that cooperation. That's the only way we get a decently large-scale investment, as the government says, which is really large-scale, and which also gives a huge amount of power and good conditions for Norwegian industry and lower power prices. Secondly, we in Europe are moving towards a mineral crisis. Europe only wins 3 pst. of the world's minerals but consumes 20 pst. of the world's minerals. Norway has a very special role to play here as a mineral rich country. In the industrial partnership with the EU, minerals should be very high on the agenda. I hope that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Industry will look at how we can cooperate even more closely with the EU on minerals. It's also something that, like sea breezes, is going to serve Norwegian interests, that we're involved in a close cooperation on it. Thirdly, the government neglects the opportunities that lie in the Barents Sea. I would like to encourage the Minister of Foreign Affairs to work to increase the understanding in Brussels that the Barents Sea is part of the solution now both for gas but also for blue hydrogen in the long term. One is to get the understanding that I think you're much more receptive to, as the situation is now. It's about that we have to look more today, because gas exports are going to collapse in ten years if we don't. That's the 26th concession round. It is also about saying yes to area solutions in the Barents Sea and looking at a possible connection of the Barents Sea to the North Sea pipeline network. We also need to discuss this with the EU and perhaps even to cooperate with the EU on it. So McKinsey says we can export as much as maybe 12 pst. by Europe's need for hydrogen in the future if we do these things. So I would like to encourage the government to enter into an even closer cooperation with the EU in the field of industry and to follow these matters up very concretely.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e775	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very interesting presentation, where she addressed many challenges and many questions. Unfortunately, there were not so many answers. And the reason for this is that the Workers' Party and the Centre are the counterparts of European policy, and so it is impossible for the government to give some informative answers. I have listened to the debate, and it is difficult to find a red thread in the debate, but it is at least one red thread, and it is the Central Party and the Spring Party's deep opposition to the EU. The centre party goes further in its opposition to the EEA. It is even possible to read on the Centre Party’s website that the EEA Agreement is a legal coercion. This is how this agreement, which ensures access to a market of 450 million people in the Norwegian export industry under domestic conditions, is discussed. The recognition that some challenges have a supranational character and that they cannot be solved exclusively through the nation state is absent from the thinking of the Centre Party. If you're always going to hesitate at the national authority, yes, there'll be challenges that won't find their solution. Then I have to say that the representative Tybring-Gjedde's posts were characterized by partly logical inconsistency. On the one hand, the representative argued heavily for economic cooperation in the defence industry, but in the same spirit, the representative said that there was nothing to suggest that economic cooperation between countries promotes prosperity. It is simply alarming, especially in the light of the fact that Norway has a small and very open economy, and all economic experience in theory and practice suggests that trade between countries promotes the welfare of traders. Tomorrow, the government will let the cats out of the bag. Then we will see what will be included in this painfully lengthened mandate. But it will be a little easy to say that the previous government should have investigated our relationship with the EU. Now, once again, it is this government that feels the need to explore the EEA Agreement’s possibilities. The logical consequence is that we also look at what full EU membership will mean. Finally, there are certain things that have changed in recent years — the role of the EU in covid-19, the dependence of Norway on EU solutions and, in particular, the sanctions against Russia linked to the invasion of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e790	After listening to the debate, I have to say that the most surprising thing about this debate is that both the Left and the Right are trying to create dividing lines and contradictions that do not exist. They are simply contributing to a divisive rhetoric rather than a mass debate, in the middle of a time when we are at war in Europe. It surprises me very much. No one disagrees that our relationship with the countries around us is going to be changed by the war in Ukraine. For many, many years to come, the whole of Europe will probably be changed by the events we are now in the middle of. The geography of Norway, our democratic and liberal values and our open economy make us part of the changes. No one disagrees. We should deal with this in a good and equivalent way, together with partners internationally, whether it be the EU, the United Kingdom or other like-minded countries. The representative Schou must have heard wrong. I talked nothing about meeting rooms and times. I was talking about parliamentaryism. It's a very simple expression of democracy. It is, therefore, the parliamentary system that ensures a direct relationship between people and the people's representatives, where the elected representatives are also given direct responsibility. This is the democratic deficit that the European Union has. It is quite strange that some attempts to put an equal sign between intergovernmental international cooperation and transnational cooperation, because it is precisely where the difference lies — between the intergovernmental and the supranational. I feel that the Right really is trying to use this debate on Ukraine, and in a way what is happening in Europe about Ukraine, to try to launch a new Norwegian EU membership debate. In many ways it's okay enough. I accept what the Right stands for there, and the Center Party is prepared for that discussion. We are going to meet the discussion that we have always met with EU discussions, with the people's government perspective, the well-being and the resource arguments, which, in our opinion, indicate that EU membership is not a good solution for Norway. We will have an ongoing discussion on Norway's cooperation with the EU and, in particular, on the cooperation that is taking place within the EEA. Here, in line with the Hurdal platform, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has announced that we will have a public investigation into the experience of the EEA in the last decade. I have expectations that this work will give us insight into how the EEA Agreement actually works for Norway, both strengths and weaknesses, and the Central Party believes that it is important in itself. We need to look critically at our cooperation models internationally, and this must happen without anyone being tried to stamp as a kind of bad European for that reason, as I felt that the representative Bjørlo tried to do in a rather sought-after way. Norway has continued to cooperate and trade with our neighbouring countries in Europe. Nobody I know is an opponent of it. These questions concern the forms of cooperation, the fundamental interests of Norway and the extent to which transnational cooperation is to be able to review national decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e801	I didn't really intend to take the word, but I have to say I'm a little surprised at Marit Arnstad's last post, where she believes that the Right and Left present divisive rhetoric in this discussion. It's the government that has presented a statement, and it's the Stortinge that's going to discuss it. Then it must also be allowed to discuss different aspects of it, both what it contains and what it does not contain. It is also the government that has said in its government statement that it will investigate how the EEA Agreement has worked for Norway in the last ten years. It must then be allowed to ask whether it would not have been more relevant to discuss and assess what EU development is going to say to Norway in the next ten years. It's a government that has to resist being challenged at the positions of the government. Both I and others have for a long time tried to get the government to speak in terms of what to investigate, what frameworks the investigation should have, what assumptions to base. But then we've met here in the hall that this is a kind of inquisition that you're not used to. What I think is a strange way to debate. To point out first what is in different documents, it is the Minister of Finance of the Central Party who has said that the EU has now become less important. It is stated on the Central Party's own websites that the EEA Agreement is a legal coercion. The representatives of the Centre Party here in the Chamber must resist being challenged. In my introduction, I put great emphasis on those areas where I share the foreign minister's descriptions of the direction the EU is going in. I think they are right, but I believe that there must be other consequences for the Norwegian EU debate and for the Norwegian debate on cooperation with the EU than the government proposes. I believe that what is missing in the statement is that the Foreign Minister draws the conclusion of the description she herself gives, and I would like to have a bigger debate on that. Then I record that there is movement in many parties now linked to the EU issue. It is a party that will have a national meeting for the weekend that has also raised that debate. I have asked the question before, and I put it so far again: Now there is war in Europe, and some parties believe it is premature to discuss NATO, some parties believe it is premature to discuss the EU. What are we really going to discuss when there's war on our own continent?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e813	I want to continue where the representative Eriksen Soreide escaped. I think it's strange that the right-wing representative Arnstad is talking about us from the Left and Right sides here trying to draw up contradictions that don't exist, and a so-called split debate. The problem is that these are political contradictions and different views that exist, which are real; it is actually the leader of the Central Party and the finance minister who says publicly that the EU has become less important lately. There's a real contrast to how many people in this room view it. It is also such that the centre lot is in fact contrary to the EEA Agreement. It's possible there's divisive rhetoric to point it out, but it's in any case a fact. There is a political discord that must be allowed to talk about in this room. I would also like to remind the representative Arnstad that what we now have, in fact, is not a debate on Ukraine, it is a debate on EU and EEA matters. That is why we are talking about the EU and the EEA. Then the representative Arnstad is also trying to say that everyone is in favour of trade – that there is no difference here, we are all in favour of trade. It's not that simple. Firstly, the central party is opposed to the EEA Agreement, which is the whole basis for our trade with the EU. Secondly, it is actually the case today that, despite the EEA agreement, we now see that he does not cover everything, and is increasingly covering everything we need in our trade with Europe. I myself was in Brussels yesterday and had a meeting with the Swedish NHO, which told them that they increasingly notice that it is becoming more difficult for Swedish companies to interact with Norway than with other EU countries, despite the EEA Agreement, because trade policy is so much more than what is in the EEA Agreement. In the EU, new instruments of trade policy are now being rolled out at a high pace; there is increasing demand to stand outside, and the EEA Agreement does not cover everything. In important areas, there are now limitations to programmes; we are not automatically involved in all programme cooperation in the EU. We are not within the new space programme of the EU; we are not even within all parts of the existing space programme. There are limitations in Horizon Europe and Digital Europe. These are real challenges facing Norwegian business and Norwegian trade, and we must dare to talk about this in a debate that is actually about Norway's relationship with the EU and the EEA. There is no divisive rhetoric; there are political contradictions between the Center Party and the Left Party and the Second Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e826	I understand that what I'm saying about split rhetoric has fallen right and left heavy for the chest. First, I would like to say that I accept that both the Right and the Left have a different view of EU membership than I do. I think that's quite right, that's fair enough, that's a good debate. That's the way you sow doubts about the motives of other parties, and also the opinions of other parties, which I'm a little surprised at. When Schou makes my views on parliamentaryism a matter of meeting rooms and times, I think it is an unnecessary simplification of the debate. When the representative Bjørlo chooses the sought comparison to talk about it being strange that the centre party is more concerned with the fragmentation of the fold than of the EU – mixing the two issues, mixing a matter of state construction decided on in a back room in the Storting with a discussion about the EU – it is in a way to doubt our whole commitment and our motives related to the debate on Europe. I think it's completely strange. He also chooses to repeat in his last post now and suggests that the Centre Party is against trade because we are against the EEA Agreement. Norway has had an open economy for perhaps 200 years. We've been selling fish abroad for a long, long time. And then it's going to be for trade depending on being for the EEA Agreement. There's such a doubt about other people's motives. I do not think that should be done in a fair EU and EEA debate. I must also say that I think that criticism of the Minister for Foreign Affairs about not showing up the mandate for the EEA investigation is a bit strange, because I am quite sure that if Eriksen Soreide had been the Council of State now, she would not have published or disclosed to the public much of that mandate until it went to the Council of State. We know that it is first adopted by the Council of State, and then a public debate on both the mandate and the design and implementation of that investigation is launched. It is a debate the centre party looks forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e833	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e849	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e857	Welcome to our new state council, which is responsible for large parts of digital infrastructure in Norway, both broadband and mobile networks – very important issues. The Committee is also agreed, because we write in the setting that ‘broadband and mobile networks connect Norway’. It is absolutely essential for both housing and jobs throughout our country. Therefore, the Committee considers that it is a political responsibility to contribute to people’s access to this basic infrastructure and to its functioning in all parts of Norway. The outbreak of viruses with corona has shown that it is a paradox that in 2022 there are still households that lack basic infrastructure such as the high-speed Internet, when we know it was important that people could have home offices – for those workers who have that opportunity. Of course, many still have to go to work physically in the years to come, but for those who can, this has been an important option, including for young people who have been able to take lessons from home. Therefore, the development of the Internet and digital infrastructure is about social justice, geographical distribution and business and value creation throughout our country. Then I want to move on to important points for the Workers' Party and the Center Party in this matter. Full broadband coverage has been a matter for which both parties have fought together over several years, and therefore we think it is positive that there is a proposal, like here for representatives from the Left, which addresses many of the same points that we have been dealing with. Nevertheless, we want us to implement the policy that is in the Hurdal platform, because it is even more offensive. It's about making sure that everyone gets access to the high-speed Internet, and not just 95 pst., because as you know, it's going to be the usual tour of people throughout Norway. We also have an important work in the Transport and Communications Committee to see the link between the digital infrastructure and the physical one. The previous government must have a reputation for setting up the Expert Committee on Technology and Sustainable Mobility. They point out very carefully how important it is to have good access to both the network and mobile coverage throughout the country in order for vehicles to communicate smarter with each other. This will save us enormous expenses and costs related to physical infrastructure. Digital infrastructure is as important in the years that come, as it is in the physical.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e870	We can draw a parallel to the previous debate, because I know that the new Council of State is also concerned with the EU. In 1994 there was an EU vote in Norway. Unfortunately, it was no, but at the same time it was an event that might have helped to make it no, because we were so happy in Norway and everything that was Norwegian, and it was OL at Lillehammer. What's the parallel of broadband and the internet there? Well, it's that at the press center at Lillehammer there was a little hook in a corner, and there were two computers. There were some Americans sitting there, and they published on the Internet. It was the first time we had experienced something like this in Norway. It was exciting. So it was in 1994. In 1997 I got into Stortinget, and then we had mobile phones. I was so lucky that I got my cell phone to Per Olaf Lundtegen, with his number, so for two years I was invited to all small user team meetings in Norway to hold my introduction. Fortunately, we've come a little further, and the point in this case is that the Left is impatient and wants the gigabit society, the government parties are talking about high-speed broadband, and we all agree that we need broadband across the country. So it becomes a definition question: are we going to go for the gigabit society now, or are we going to be a little bit more patient and say that everyone has to have coverage, everyone has to have broadband? My point is that Norway – and it also shows the EU – has the best mobile and broadband access worldwide, I think. We set a target in 2016 that it would be 100 Mbit to 90 pst. by households. It was reached in 2020, long before we had planned. Now we're getting a 5G expansion across the country, as well as that over 80pst. access to at least 1 Gbit by the Norwegian population. It's the last meters to go to get everyone. The combination of satellite technology, broadband and 5G is important. We want to promote one of the proposals put forward by the Left in its proposal for a representative, namely: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with a plan to maximise the societal and climate benefits of broadband by, inter alia, increasing the efficiency of the public sector and increasing the value creation and climate related to private and public sector digitisation.’ The previous government set a goal, that everyone should have 1 Gbit in all town halls and all schools by 2025. Then you have the gigabit society in all Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e888	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e893	It's an important thing that it's important for the country to realize. The proposal from the Left that only 95 pst. of the people shall have broadband coverage, will result in many thousands of households and inhabitants not having the necessary supplies. That's just not good enough. The center party thinks everyone should have access to high-speed broadband. Just as the goal was once set for everyone to have access to power, it is now just as natural and important that everyone should have access to high-speed broadband. The development of broadband and mobile solutions in Norway is going to happen, and we need to get the public and private forces to contribute to this. But it's a particular public responsibility to ensure a holistic supply, and in particular to ensure the development and operation of areas where there is no commercial basis for expanding. There, the public takes responsibility. The whole country must have an equivalent infrastructure and supply. Access to modern electronic communications such as mobile and broadband is necessary, both for individuals and businesses. Better communication reduces distance disadvantages and helps to maintain rural settlements. It is becoming increasingly important, among other things. for travel and other types of industries, we see. Broadband for all is an important political goal for this government, cf. The Hurdal platform, where the goal is to ensure high-speed broadband for everyone by 2025. We are completely dependent on good and robust networks. Increasingly larger values are added to the network across all social sectors. Covid-19 has clearly shown that this was – and has ours – an important investment. Good networks allowed society to keep going through home offices, homeschools and long-distance health consultations. We see that people have seen the importance of being able to access a well-developed infrastructure when it comes to high-speed broadband. It's important to be able to participate in society. Digitisation of public services, increasing the use of welfare technologies, increasing growth and value creation, more efficient production and service delivery to industry and industry – this is a corollary. Those who are the frame of poor mobile coverage or do not have broadband have difficulty making use of the services provided by the private and public sector in the future, or as private and public demand, in which it is increasingly foreseen that everyone should be able to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e904	This left-wing proposal is about two things: it's about setting a high but realistic goal of full broadband coverage in Norway by 2025, and it's also about seeing equally high, clear and ambitious plans to take out the effects of it as far as possible, as fast as possible, for people, business and public Norway. Digitalisation and new technologies have changed society at an enormous pace over the last decades, as the representative of Greece very well illustrated, the raging developments we have seen. And all the evidence suggests that digitisation will strengthen its contribution to growth and social benefits in the years to come, in both the public and private sectors, and it will come in all areas. Full digitisation in Norway will be with and reduce climate and environmental pressures, it is necessary for the transition to a greener business, it is necessary to meet an increasing and changing skills needs for people across the country and to ensure service quality to an ageing population – and much more. We'll be glad to have come as far as we have. Nearly nine out of ten households last year had a broadband offer. The coverage has increased dramatically only in the last two-three-four years, and it has mainly been privately funded. The state has made contributions, but it has largely done so with private development. That's the big thing that needs to change over the years to come. To cover the 240 000 households that are left, the government has to take a larger share of the cake. The left hand side's concrete suggestions are defined so that we want to set measurements of 95 pst. coverage of broadband of at least 1 Gbit/s and at least 100 Mbit/s for the remaining households/enterprises. The reason why we've defined the goal is the thorough joint work done by KS, the municipalities' organization Abelia, Nelfo and NHO, which sees this as possible within a price tag of 4 to 5 billion in government dollars over the next four years. Then we'll be able to complete Norway with the definition that we've given here, and that will have a huge value potential for Norway. So, of course, it's nice to hear that the government party here today thinks that this is not ambitious enough, and that one will bet even more. That's great. I haven't seen the price tag for what was suggested here, but what we're saying here is that we can't possibly get far for the relatively small price tag – in a few billions, as we've said here – and I hope now, together, at least we can help get there. Of course, if we get any further, it's even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e917	Perhaps the representative will be allowed to say something about the Left's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e922	Yeah, that was a good idea. With this I would like to present the solution that has been submitted, on behalf of the Left, to which I have referred in my article.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e927	The representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e932	This proposal is in many ways to open doors. In 2021, a proposal was made and one matter dealt with, Inner. 511 S for 2020-2021, where the Progress Party with several achievements gained too much of the basis for this case. When you look at broadband expansion in Norway, it's now 86-87 pst. coverage. The Committee met with Telenor Norway on 7 April, which was clear that they would be able to achieve the target by 2025, with a bet of approx. 1 billion. kr per year. Then, in the Progress Party, we are pleased that the government is signaling on the Hurdal platform that they are interested in and willing to implement the policy of the Progress Party, which was the basis of the case linked to the Innst. 511 S for 2020-2021. It is the Progress Party pleased with and expects it to be done. Then we'll get full broadband expansion in Norway. I sincerely hope that the Center Party will look at the rest of the government and make sure that one gets done this. That's a little humorous. I think this is an important matter for the country. Broadband is important in all parts of the country. The experience I have from my state is that it's being built everywhere. The commercial companies that build out are very good and build out even where it's less profitable. By following Input. 511 S for 2020-2021 and what the Hurdal platform and government are basing on, I think we're going to be able to achieve that goal in a good way. And that is in line with the position of the Progress Party in the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e944	Nothing's like happy guttering representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e949	For the Central Party and the Government, it is a main project to contribute to the development of the whole of Norway and to facilitate people to live, work and live good lives in both rural and urban areas. In a modern society, access to modern communications, broadband and mobile is a crucial factor. As we have pointed out in the Hurdal platform, the government believes that modern communications and broadband must also be a fundamental right, in the same way as for example. current. In a modern society, it's equally important. Therefore, it is incredibly important to continue developing broadband in Norway, with enhanced power. An important effort is being made today by municipalities, from counties and private actors contributing to broadband deployment, but at the same time we need to step up the efforts of the community. Therefore, some of the first Workers' Party-Center Party government did after the government change, prioritizing increased broadband deployment. We increased the budget for the development of broadband by approx. 50 pst. Compared with that which was from the Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian Party. We have to go further, we have to extend it to everyone and not just define it to be 95 pst. or 96 pst. So if you define that it's okay with 95 pst, it's more than 100,000 households in Norway that leave out of that goal. That's why we've clearly said in the Hurdal platform that you should have an expansion of high-speed broadband that hits everyone in town and town. The report referred to in the Societal Economic Analysis is an exciting and important report that highlights both a number of challenges related to broadband development and, not least, the high potential for the long-term deployment of broadband will have a high value-added value for those communities around Norway that are able to access broadband, both in terms of business development, job security and the basis for housing. In a modern society, it is precisely to be able to combine housing by having access to high-speed broadband both privately and in a job context that is incredibly important. In addition, of course, we also need to strengthen the deployment of the mobile network. So for the concrete proposal, the government is going on with both the urgent priority of developing broadband and an assessment of speed targets in the future. In terms of the base speed target, at 100 Mbit, we have to go in and look at what's going to be the goal in the future for development for everyone across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e967	Thanks to the new Minister responsible for digitalisation and broadband. While good public intervention targets in broadband are great, for 20 years there has been a market-based policy that has worked very well for the development of broadband in Norway. These are big players, and they are small players. It's Numedalsnett, it's Telenor, it's Telia, etc. Under the Solberg government, fiber construction was fivefold. From 2020 to 2021 it was 33 pst. increase in the development of high-speed broadband. Does the Council of State consider that there is an advantage to this great competition between many private commercial operators, or would he wish for a state-owned company to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e972	I thank you for the welcome to the Stortinget as State Council. It was very nice to hear the comments from the representative of Greece, who moved the lines back to the EU case. One of the things that was important in the EU fight and in order to win it – I should probably not reveal it to the representative of Greece – was that one had a leader for No to the EU called Kristen Nygaard, who was internationally much more known as a computer programmer and was far advanced in new technology, which helped implement modern solutions for the no-side in Norway when to win the EU fight. So to the concrete expansion. Yes, it is quite right that what has been crucial for the development of high-speed broadband in Norway is that private operators who have taken great responsibility and who have contributed to the development of public funds from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in government have been too small. We're going to build on that, but in addition, the state is also going to have an extra contribution through the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e981	So what the Council of State is now saying is that should the state increase its contribution so strongly that the private can escalate? The point is that there has been a market-driven development in which the public has entered and filled. Now we've also got the 5G technology, like, for example. Telenor, Telia and others are expanding to the full across the country. I heard the council say that he wanted a revision of what is high-speed broadband. Government parties use their comments to say yes, they will have high-speed broadband, while Left will have the gigabit society. I expect that the gigabit is more than high speed, because it has been around 100 Mbit/s. What does the Council of State think is a natural goal to sit down? The previous government struck in Meld. St. 28 for 2020-2021 stated that all town halls, all emergency centres, all schools should have 1 Gbit/s by 2025. Is that a little ambitious target?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e986	With regard to broadband development in Norway, it is incredibly important to facilitate the continuation of the efforts of private and commercial actors who have contributed to the development over time and to ensure that there is no weakening of their efforts. The point is that, in sum, we need to ensure a faster expansion that enables us to facilitate the development of high-speed broadband across Norway. It is quite right, as the representative of Greece says, that today there is a large proportion – approx. 80 pst. – which has access to 1 Gbit/s, but so many in Norway currently have too poor broadband coverage and too poor mobile coverage. That is why it has been important to raise the budgets in those areas. One of the first things I did was, as I said, to increase the funding for broadband development by the state by 50 p.p., compared to the draft budget presented by the representative of the Hellenic Party as his rejection request to the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e991	It's very good to hear that the ambitions are high. That was an increase of 50 pst. in the appropriations. If the council can come back and say it's also been a 50 pst. increase in speed and improvement during the year is in a way the right state aid policy. I haven't been against giving grants to broadband development where necessary, but we've been concerned about – and I'm very happy to hear that the Council of State is also concerned about – that it's actually a market that works. It's being developed in private. Whether it's in the Gudbrand valley or in Hallingdal or where it's going, the high-speed internet is almost everywhere. If he can answer the question of whether he agrees with the ambition to have 1 Gbit/s at all public buildings in 2025, he also says yes that we have a gigabit society in 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e996	I fully agree with the representative of Greece that many places in Norway – fortunately – have come so far that there is also access to modern high-speed broadband at gigabital speed. Unfortunately, many island communities and other districts do not have them, but also some of the central areas of Norway. Not so far away from where I live – I live in Romerike – there are a number of areas that do not have good enough coverage for neither mobile nor broadband. That's why there's a need for a stronger effort on the part of the community, and that's why we prioritised it on the first occasion. It's also important to have high ambitions. I believe that the ambitions that have been in terms of capacity should be reinforced in the future. The concrete assessment of different solutions that we are in the process of and will come back to Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1001	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State. It's interesting to say that the Council of State almost makes what's happened on the broadband side in Norway to now as a failed project because one's spent too little money. The point, which is clearly shown in the report from KS by others, is that we have had a very successful broadband policy until now. We've come a long way. But now we've come to the point where there's not enough market ground for the rest of the expansion – now one has to step up. In our presentation, we have followed up what is actually the conclusion in the KS, NHO report with several, that one can set a level where a roughly 1 billion. kr per year can reach full broadband coverage by 2025, defined as 1 Gbit/s to 95 pst. and 100 Mbit/s to 5 pst. So the government party says this isn't good enough, one has to do more. Does the government have the price tag on the bet as described by the Council of State, which goes beyond what the Left proposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1010	It is nice to hear the story of Alfred Bjørlo, but I think whether you are in Nordfjordeid, in Naustdal or elsewhere in Norway, one will see that it is nothing new that it is important that a state-owned person makes a strong contribution to expanding the areas where the commercial ones do not expand sufficiently and speedily. Unfortunately, over time there have been areas in Norway where one always comes to the end, where one always follows. It is so vital to facilitate housing and jobs throughout Norway that one ensures an increase in the state contribution, so that we all – not that it is just about. 80-90 pst. which has good coverage and that the rest comes a few years later. That's why we're committed to having a thorough development and clarifying the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1016	I can assure the representative Gülsvik that in Left-steered Eid we now reach 100 pst. coverage, because we have put together good municipal plans and just used the split layer that has been over many years, with a combination of private funds, municipal funds and state resources, which is a right model. But we're certain that in what's now left, the government and public part of this has to get bigger. But I almost have to repeat my question, because the council didn't answer it. Reaching the goal we set here today will cost roughly an extra billion broadband per year over the next three years. So the government party says this isn't enough, it's not ambitious enough. What is the price tag for the extra effort to reach 100 pst. By 2025? And how has the government planned to finance it over the next three state budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1023	It is very nice that, as rapporteur at Eid, the representative Bjørlo has contributed to a faster deployment of broadband there, and that one has had good cooperation with private actors. But what is the case is that the Left in Government and, as part of the majority over eight years, contributed to the fact that there were too low appropriations for broadband expansion, so that a constant deficit remained when it came to ensuring sufficient expansion of high-speed broadband at that time. So society evolved all the way, so the challenge is that one has to increase capacity, and one has to increase its targets. That's exactly why the government has now said that we're going to go through it carefully and look at what kind of goal you're going to set in terms of how much capacity it should be, and of course what it's going to involve in the next round of contributions from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1028	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1035	Broadband access is not about entertainment. It's not about some luxury you can avoid. It's about access to a very basic service. It is about access to a very basic communication both for people and for business. That's why we in the Center Party think having broadband should be a right, in line with having access to electricity. National communications authorities say that in the former Uppland and Hedmark counties there is a total of 20 pst. the population does not have access to a proper broadband network. So there are 35,377 households in Uppland and Hedmark that don't have access to a proper broadband network. I want to draw up some historical lines. When the flow came to Norway, this was not a debate. There was no political debate as to whether access to electricity was a priority for everyone. There was a very basic consensus, even in this room, that whether you lived in the extremes, at the top or at the extremes, you would be allowed to participate in a universal prosperity development. The attitude, where one believes that absolutely everyone, wherever they live, should have access to the same opportunities, is no longer traceable in Norwegian policy. When the Left makes proposals today, they also propose that 5 pst. shall not be available on broadband. It surprises me – and in a slightly longer, historical perspective, it is also quite special that it comes from the Left. It is also a fact that when the Center Party and the Workers' Party took over the government power, there was a need to add some funds for broadband development. That's why we increased by 100 million. NOK – as one of the first things we did after the election. I'm finally going to take the time to make a little comparison, because the political ambitions of the current and previous government are the big difference. The Granavolden platform says: ‘Contribute to increased broadband deployment, inter alia, through the continuation of State contributions to broadband construction in the districts’.» The platform of the current government states: ‘Make access to the high-capacity internet accessible to an equal line with electricity, and ensure that all households in which it lives shall have access to high-speed broadband by 2025.’» This is an important policy change for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1060	The Labour Party wants equal opportunities across the country, and digital infrastructure is crucial to achieving that, both with decentralised services and by providing more smart solutions. It's all related to everything. Today there is war in Europe, and we are increasingly discussing the issue of preparedness and security. In my previous life, I was the ICT manager, and an important part of that job was building digital infrastructure. Then we talked a lot about vulnerability, about uptime, downtime and the consequences of it, and about a word called redundancy, i.e. security when things go down. This is important that we follow up at the same time as we expand the broadband. ICT Norway is an important resource in this way. They're now giving clear guidance on this with data sharing, which we need to get better at. In addition, there is a lack of data security, and there is a lack of competence. That's why I'm very happy that our government is now taking this, that it has put down samples and has an ambition to strengthen ICT education. Then I would say that the previous government removed the scheme that the county should be responsible for the development of its region, and made it a national application-based scheme, which meant that the municipalities stopped applying because there was an incredible amount of paperwork for no use. Now we are back to the fact that the county councils once again have an important role, and the expansion can happen faster. The commercial is not enough alone, but must be followed up with good public governance, and that is my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1071	It is repeated here that the Left does not want full broadband coverage, of government representatives. There is a claim that cannot be dissented in this hall. What we have presented today is a package for full broadband coverage in Norway by 2025. There we have chosen to build on the broad, thorough work that has been done, among other things. KS – where the Labour Party and the Center Party, as far as I know, sit with the bay and both ends, and they have councils in all roles. It was well even the current Minister of Defense Gram who started the work, which has later been handed over to the government he is part of. There is one saying that a practical way to introduce this is to say that by 2025 we're going to have 95 pst. on fibre with 1 Gbit/s, and the remaining 5 pst. must also be raised vigorously. The point is to reach 100 pst. of the households with 1 Gbit/s have a price tag so far beyond that I am unable to see from my point of view how it is possible to prioritize it within the government budgets of the three years remaining until 2025. The package we're proposing here is ambitious enough. To put it bluntly, it's about one billion broadband per year for the next three years. It's ambitious enough in the situation the Norwegian economy is in. But I note that the government party in this debate insists that this is not ambitious enough. One stands firmly on the goal of 1 Gbit/s for everyone by 2025, at a price tag for which the Council of State says that a person is working on a numerical basis. I think we're all excited about that number base, first of all, and we're looking forward to the three state budgets where the government within a single economic space is going to give priority to this together with their other promises. I think it's important to see that what makes us close to digitization is to sit down and create realistic solutions that can actually be achieved – not set ambitions that are so high that in practice there are many that will be disappointed after the three years. The fasitant thing about this is we know when we get to 2025, but what I'm happy about is that there's a broad and strong commitment in this room to broadband for everyone is important, and that it's urgent to give broadband to everyone, so that we can start by taking out the effects of digitization. I can also, for the sake of order, consider that the Left will support proposal No. 1, from the Right, which is to bring forward our second proposal from the representative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1084	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1101	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1108	The first speaker is Christian Torset, who makes contributions to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1113	The Committee on Transport and Communications has examined that draft representative, 8: 107 S. Let me start by saying that I have not participated in the discussion of the matter, but if the representative Mona Fagerås, whom I am in favour of, had been present, she would have guaranteed thanks to the other members of the committee and the committee secretary for good cooperation. In this case, a Green Aviation Programme is proposed to facilitate the development, testing and implementation of zero and low-carbon aviation technologies in Norway. The proposals are justified, inter alia, by: in the Paris Agreement’s requirement to cut emissions from the aviation sector. The Committee's position is promoted by the members of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, and is in three points: that the Stortinget asks the Government to ensure that tenders for the use of low- and zero-emission technologies on the Short-Range Network, to explore more instruments to reduce emissions from domestic and foreign aviation, and to support the establishment of key research and development functions through a dedicated centre for climate-neutral regional aviation in Norway. I assume that the proposers and each of the other parties will explain their views on the matter. I would like to address the SV's proposal with this and ask to link some comments to these. The world is facing a wide range of crises, both in the form of Russia's international war of aggression against Ukraine, a massive increase in energy prices, an approximate breakdown in parts of the transport system with subsequent supply problems of goods, travel, food shortages, etc. However, none of these crises can be characterised as existing, but it is the climate crisis. If we don't go any faster, even a temperature rise of 2 degrees is too optimistic. We will then face a number of disastrous effects. It is almost not possible to exaggerate the damage potential of the climate crisis. For SV, therefore, there is a loving, albeit inadequate, step in the right direction when there is a majority in this case that requires concrete measures to accelerate the conversion of greener air traffic. SV’s proposal to require full electrification of the short-range network before 2030 would significantly undermine the process of climate neutral propulsion in aviation. Similarly, the proposal to change Avinor’s bonus schemes to new long-range routes and airlines with passenger growth, which is an effective measure to accelerate the climate crisis. In this case, it's a bit like drawing the credit card and believing that by not using cash you don't have to pay. The bill comes to an end, however, also in the climate issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1128	The representative Christian Torset has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1133	There is a red thread from the matter we dealt with instead of digital infrastructure across the country, to modern investment in aviation in Norway. This is a very important matter. The transport field may be first and foremost, out among people, associated with asphalt, steel and concrete, but the air is absolutely essential for people to be able to transport themselves both to work and in leisure in Norway. In the future, we imagine that the transport policy and communication effort in Norway will be inspired more by Ashkeladden and his good helpers, who had the ship that went as well to land to water and in the air with. That's the modern way to think about it. That's why this proposal is very good. Norway is created to bet on short-haul, airway networks, and especially when we get electric aircraft, we will see in the future that many people can travel both simpler and not least without emissions from small and large places in our country. At the opening of the big business meeting today, we had a memory of a former big business representative, and it was said there that he worked very hard, among other things. for a tunnel, and it had apparently been 40 years since he was in his first meeting of the local government, until this tunnel opened and could be used. In aviation, things happen a lot faster. We in the Transport Committee have exciting meetings, including: Avinor, and they say that in the middle of the 2030s, electric aircraft might be operational for passenger transport. There's only a little over ten more years, so in a transport perspective, this is going at a furious pace. Many of the other things that we are discussing, which require more steel and concrete, may not even be planned because electric aircraft are on the wing. Now we're going to get air under the wings, and therefore, as I was in the previous post, it's important that we continue to strengthen our commitment to research and development. For the Workers' Party and the Center Party, we had a very good meeting with SINTEF and NTNU this week that went on. They also highlighted the important work of the expert committee from the previous period, but that we must join forces to prioritize it. That means that now there's consensus, it seems like. Priority should be given to the digital infrastructure, and good provision should be made for aviation. Then there will be a task for both the co-representative Larsen from the Right, who will soon be on, and all of us to give priority to these fields, so that there will actually be a prospect of traveling Norway across and across with air transport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1144	If aviation does not take part in the emissions cuts, it may affect aviation itself. If climate impact from aviation is high in relation to other modes of transport, travelling by plane will be considered too great a disadvantage for us to continue as many air travel as we do today. Many people in smaller places in Norway are dependent on being able to travel by plane. For them, flights are as important as the bus is for city people. Technological developments over the next ten years will determine which aeroplanes will take over today's fleet. Will fossil-powered aeroplanes use environmentally friendly fuels, or do they become electric airplanes? We nordics are happy with things that go on stream. The short distance between airports in Norway makes our country the ideal test venue. Many technology environments are working on new aircraft types and need airports with good testing infrastructure. We can become part of this if we show action. At the same time, I am among those who are skeptical of electric planes. There are some physical laws that are in the disfavor of the electric plane. One kilo of jet fuel gives 12 kWh of energy, and if we get the same amount of energy out of batteries, they weigh 40 kilos with today's technology. Sustainable fuel is then the most realistic option for today's fossil fuel aeroplanes. The oil industry and its competence provide Norway with a clear competitive advantage when it comes to large-scale production of low-carbon fuels. A commitment to the production of sustainable fuels can provide Norway with a significant number of jobs and growth in value added. Our representative's proposal to establish a green aviation programme has given 15 hearings. Nearly all of them stress that we have to start this right now. In such a big and important case as this, the state must be a driver and to some extent a coordinator. The state cannot conduct research and development alone, and the private must know that the State actually wants their contribution. When we from the Right visited a group that was developing an electric plane in Sweden a few weeks ago, we were clearly informed that the Solberg government's positive contribution to electric aircraft was an important motivator for their courage to bet. The Swedish authorities were not in the vicinity of such an effort to contribute to a technology shift. Now that Stortinget is likely to vote in favour of this proposal for a Green Aviation Programme, it is postponing Norway’s contribution to faster technology development. It is unfortunate for the climate, and it is unfortunate for Norwegian business. We can't sit and watch other countries get all the gains and jobs by developing new technologies. We're going to have something to live on in this country as well. We need to find industries that can replace the revenue from the oil industry. Today is a good opportunity to show the will to do something. With this I will address the Right proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1161	The representative, Erlend Larsen, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1166	We have experienced that charges have increased quite a lot in aviation. This applies to VAT, CO 2 tax and air passenger tax. For those of us who live a little bit out of the way, this has led to a pretty expensive flight. It has also become a bit difficult to maintain a good flight offer in the districts. The arrangement of charges has resulted in short domestic flights and intermediate flights being hit much harder than long international flights. We will now ensure that we get a good flight offer throughout Norway. By reducing charges, several commercial flights may be maintained. At the same time, we're going to increase the purchase of routes on the short-haul network so that there will be more departures and cheaper flights in District Norway. Aviation has been quite difficult over a long time because of the corona. Now we see that people are flying more. I see that the path in the north that I often use, Tromsø-Hasvik, has increased its coating by 40 pst. the last time. That's good, but it makes it hard for people to travel, because the planes are often full. Otherwise, I must also mention, in connection with my travel, that there is now a conversion in Tromsø that is totally hopeless. It makes it absolutely impossible for us who fly, to get there quickly, because it's chaos. It has to be corrected. The last time I was home, it was a full winter and a half meter of snow that had to be cleared. The global warming has not reached us there. The water reservoirs are full, so everything is very well. It shows some of the differences in the country. I notice that someone is very concerned that things have to change very quickly, that it has to be fossil-free. I think we need to spend some time, because we can't afford to experiment with the district population. What we put in place of schemes has to work. We don't have that many other options. That is why the proposal for a decision is good – we must know that the technology we introduce will work: ‘The Government requests that tenders for the use of low- and zero-emission technologies on the short-range network be subject to requirements as soon as technologically possible.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1187	Let me first commend the representatives of the Right to promote this proposal. There is no doubt that our country is unique and ideal to test out new technology in terms of our short-range network. The flights on Onderøe are the public transport in District Norway – in line with the bus, tram and train traffic in the big cities. If there's something this industry would need now – because we know that the Unhøes machines are old, and there's a date when you can't get a hold of parts, and you're standing there without an offer if we don't develop new technology – if there's something that could have helped the business and the players, it's predictability. That is why the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, are in favour. 1, simply to be able to get your own When the government says no to that, I mean you gamble. There are no actors who want to pull this out completely if the state does not also set up and say that this is long-term, we are going to work on this, and we are going to do this. Nevertheless, I also question the majority position, which says that you have to make demands in the tenders as soon as the technology is in place. It has not been said that it is competitive. That is why the Progress Party is voting against. We are totally dependent on the fact that new technology must also be competitive, so that we do not impose significantly increased costs on District Norway and passengers. The progress party sees that it can be that when technology is in place and it is competitive, aircraft will of course be the most environmentally friendly to travel with in the long term. Then those who are aircraft creators don't have anything left anymore – only a short asphalt stripe is needed, and that's it; there's no pollution in that way. So the Progress Party supports proposal No. 1 and would like a majority to join and support it, so that the industry can be given predictability – which they are completely, completely dependent on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1198	I would also like to praise the Right for presenting this proposal. The Left will support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party to establish a Green Aviation Programme. I think we need that systematics to drive this work forward. I also think it is good to have agreed in the setting to submit a bid for zero and low emissions when the technology is there. The Left will vote in favour, and we will also vote in favour of a case on more instruments to reduce emissions from aviation, because that is what is needed. The left agrees with the Hurdal platform to set the target to cut 55 pst. in Norway by 2030, and then we also have to get large emissions cuts in aviation to get that calculation to go up. Today we have the CO 2 tax, we have a quota obligation, and we also have a integration requirement for advanced biofuels. It was Norway's first country in the world that introduced, and it will certainly have to be upgraded to be more by 2030. We also need to look at other fuels, a sustainable biofuels, whether it's e-fuel, hydrogen or ammonia that will be possible in the future. We need to drive the development of electric aircraft and make use of it. Norway has a unique position with the short-range network we have, where we can play a leading role for both the development of and the use of electric aircraft. It was earlier pointed out that the situation of Onkøe is in. Onkøe is a company that is very advanced in looking at the possibility of electric aircraft, while we know that they also have to replace large parts of their aircraft fleet in a relatively short time. I think we're going to be aware that there's a significant business side to this, and we're in a very tough competition internationally to use electric aircraft. Here, there are other countries that are going to be in front of Norway, unless we have a systematic effort to make use of it here as well. There are projects, whether in the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States or other countries, that really put pressure on electric planes. I've had the privilege of flying electric planes and even having the opportunity to control Arendal. I don't know if those who were in Arendal then would be as safe if they knew that, but it was a great experience to have the opportunity to be among the first to fly electric planes. I am absolutely sure that in a short time this will be day-to-day. We need to provide a process in which we in Norway can be the drivers of this in the future, and also take all the benefits of it in addition to the emission cuts it gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1215	Aviation is a combined relatively modest but, up to the covid-19 pandemic, a rapidly increasing contributor to global greenhouse gas emissions. It's obviously unfortunate, and that's why evolution has to be reversed. I therefore believe that it should be an objective to reduce aviation emissions by stimulating the use of the most environmentally friendly types of aircraft and fuel, as also stated in the Hurdals platform. As is known, a comprehensive notification of a national aviation strategy for the autumn shall be provided. The aim of the Communication is to present a strategy for sustainable Norwegian aviation in the climate and environmental, social, geographical and economic sense. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee will require the use of low- and zero-emission technologies on the short-range network as soon as technologically possible. The use by the State of its purchasing power to develop and deploy new technologies for more climate-friendly air transport is a measure that the Ministry of Transport has already initiated. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee proposes to support the establishment of key research and development functions through a dedicated climate-neutral aviation centre in Norway. It is important that policy stimulates technology development in aviation – in line with other modes of transport. In view of the testing, piloting and phase-in of zero and low-emission technologies in aviation, several elements and factors point to Norway’s suitability as a good venue for this, as highlighted in both the suspension and the representative proposal. I also support statements that aviation is facing a major task in order to succeed in green conversion. In the context of the work on the aviation strategy, several bodies have pointed out that the Norwegian State should take responsibility for establishing a test centre for the development of zero emission solutions in aviation or that a national research, development and innovation programme should, if appropriate, be in place specifically for industry. It is important that Norway does not duplicate the activity that is taking place outside, but contributes to areas where we have point competence, and where our contribution is towards moving globally in the right direction — not just in Norway. I support the wish of the proposers to facilitate zero and low-emission technologies for aviation in Norway and would like to see the follow-up of proposals for Decision III in the context of other actions and instruments in an overall framework of aviation strategy work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1235	Our representative proposal on a green aviation programme has obviously taken many actors in aviation, research institutions and environmental protection organisations. The Committee received 15 consultation replies and almost all supported the proposal that a specific green aviation programme should be drawn up. Several emphasise that Norway has great opportunities to participate in technological development, but that it is urgent to develop this programme. We in the Right believe that a green aviation programme that stands independently and on its own legs will make clear an offensive commitment to a necessary technological shift. We also believe that an independent programme will bring about a clearer commitment than a subchapter in a larger message will do. Governments have better time, and have announced that they will wait to include a green chapter in the notified aviation message. Can the State Council say a little about what the expected size message contains on this topic?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1242	I was in it so far in my previous post. But there is no doubt that, in the aviation strategy, we will address very thoroughly questions about how to take aviation in a greener and more climate-friendly direction, and, of course, what kind of space of action exists, what technology development looks like, and what tools can be used to take us in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1247	We have a competitive advantage in the large-scale production of low-carbon fuels, such as sustainable fuels, biofuels, e-fuels, hydrogen and ammonia. Norwegian industry already has competence and raw materials to produce this. Several major initiatives are in the process of producing future climate-friendly fuels in Norway. The production of sustainable fuels can provide Norway with a significant number of jobs and high value added. Currently, this type of fuel is significantly more expensive than fossil fuels, and there is also limited production and demand. Large-scale production and measures that can reduce the fuel price will be essential to increase the use of these fuels. The relationship between supply and demand will have a major impact on price developments, and not least on making sustainable fuels competitive in relation to fossil fuels. Several hearing bodies have called for the establishment of a fund to remedy the transition. What does the Council of State think about phase-in of sustainable fuel and the idea of establishing a fund to remedy the transition?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1256	Alternative fuels are clearly part of the solution, and work is also under way at EU level to look at the types of interference requirements that can be considered in the future. Norway, as is known, is one of the countries that already have such a requirement for inclusion, and it is the type of instrument that could help create a market and thus also provide a basis for increasing production.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1261	The Council of State was quite clear, of course, that he would follow the decision of the Grand Duchy, which is at least to be made, to make demands on the tenders as soon as technologically possible. The Council of State was also quite clear that the State should use its purchasing power. My question is then: one thing is that it can be technologically possible to get early, but will it also have something to say, or is it in a way completely uninteresting whether it would be significantly more expensive for the travellers? Or is it only technology that has to decide that purchasing package?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1268	It wouldn't surprise anyone if I said that it would of course be a combination of different things to apply in such processes. There will, of course, also be an economic framework around what the state can use in the footpath processes. But that's not sure there's any contradiction in it, so it's kind of a little hypothetical. I have quite good faith that we will have a technological development that will take us in that direction, and I also believe that this must be done in such a way as to adjust tender documents, for example. have step-by-step requirements, in order to develop technologically and, insofar as it is also economically sound. And I want to add that, of course, security, security, availability and a good offer are the most important things.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1273	I thank you for your answer. Then I realize that the Council of State really agrees with the Advancement Party that it is not just the technology that has to decide, but that there are also several factors, such as price. I also appreciate the fact that the Council of State is so clear on the quality we are also going to use, so I have nothing more.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1278	State Council Nygård can get a line if he wants to, but there weren't very many questions there. We're going to go to the next replicate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1283	It is good that there is a matter for the autumn, but we have had transitions to zero emissions in Norway that have been very successful, among other things. the electric car development we have, where we set a clear target that in 2025 all new electric cars sold should be zero-emission cars. In this case, I forgot to say in the post, the left will also vote in favour of the SV's proposal that the short-range network should only have zero emissions by 2030. I think you need those clear goals. It is good to add zero and low emissions to bids, but I think it takes clear time to set the instrument in line with the goal to be achieved. Then my question becomes: is the Council of State open to set a clear target in the case to come to the autumn, because when is the conversion to zero emissions to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1291	Then I think we have to be so realistic that even if we in Norway can go ahead, and we have a country with an infrastructure that is well suited for it, and we can probably achieve quite a lot through footpath offers, that's just 5 pst. of the volume of Norwegian aviation and aviation is international. I think we need to make sure that we make a good change across Europe to pull aviation in the right direction. So I'll probably be a little bit careful to say that we're going to put a completely strange ambition on it, but we're going to take those recordings further into the aviation strategy process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1296	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1303	Aviation emissions have increased significantly since 1990, and the growth of air traffic is a challenge if we are to manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Last year, the Solberg government presented the Climate Plan for 2021-2030, which provides for the phasing-in of low- and zero-emission aeroplanes at Norwegian airports, and for Norway to become an arena for testing and developing that type of aeroplane. The right is currently following up the climate plan and is more concrete in terms of aviation. That is why we are proposing to start work on a green aviation programme in Norway. It will contribute more to facilitating innovation, testing and development of green aviation, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation, not only in Norway, but also in the rest of the world. A green aviation investment will also be involved in creating new businesses and more jobs. As a big-time representative from North Norway, it may not come as a surprise that I believe that North Norway has the very best prerequisites for taking a leading role in green aviation, and there are several good reasons for doing so. First of all, the North Norwegian short-distance network, which was developed in the 60's and 70's, is unique. The development and testing of low- and zero-emission aeroplanes must initially take place on a small scale, and in North Norway airports are relatively close at a distance, and in addition they have climatic and topographical conditions that make it quite appropriate. Secondly, good and strong aviation environments have already been established in North Norway, including: at the Arctic University of UiT Norway, which has several aeronautical science training courses and is in the process of the project TASIC, the Tromsø Arctic Simulation Centre, which shall be a national simulation centre, inter alia. for aeroplanes. And thirdly, one at Bardufoss airport is already testing electrical aircraft. But it is broken to see that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will vote down the proposal of the Right to start work on a green aviation programme in Norway. It shows that the level of ambition is not high enough. We also saw it in the additional contribution to the state budget in the fall, where the same parties cut the 25 million that the Solberg government had put into the state budget for 2022 to set up research centres for sustainable transport in Norway. Norway needs to speed up its green aviation investment, and a green aviation programme, proposed by the Right, would have contributed to it – and would like to start with North Norway, if you ask me.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1324	The representative Erlend Svardal Bøe pointed out for several good reasons that North Norway is a natural place to locate a research and development centre for aviation, where greener, more environmentally friendly technology can be developed. There are special reasons for this. Topographical is that it can be very long to move from a to b by car and very short by plane, so that's the bus in North Norway you're talking about when you refer to the short distance network. New technologies can take time to put in place, and there have been more points. We are aware of that. Using new technology rather than the old one — for obvious reasons — can cost a little more in cash, but it is also a price to let go of this kind of development. It costs something in greenhouse gas emissions and thus in climate damage potential if one is too weak to change society. Therefore, SV proposes to impose a requirement for full electrification of the short-range network by 2030. Why electrification? It is clearly the simplest technology to put in place in a short distance. It's already developed electric aircraft. There's talk of introducing these to a greater extent. Repentance is clear that this can be done. As we all know, Norway played an important role internationally when it came to the introduction of electric cars – making them more common and supporting technology development in industry. The same can happen in the aviation sector as well. Finally, I would like to comment on proposal No. 3, from SV, where we ask the government to stop Avinor's bonus schemes for new long-range routes and airlines with passenger growth. You can't say with your hand on your heart that it's good for the climate to stimulate more passengers in aviation, at least not until you've got green aviation. Long-range routes are, as you know, extra bad for the climate because what will take even longer before you can have environmentally friendly alternatives. It is therefore a mystery to this representative that the proposals No. 2 and 3 are not supported by the entire hall. But I will boast of the Left, who has announced support for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1335	Then the representative Christian Torset has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1340	I would like to tell the representative from SV that it was obviously not so urgent for SV to get an aviation program out, as I see it. This was an important proposal to do just that work, and I think it is particularly important for us who represent North Norway. Here we had a golden opportunity to roll out an aviation program earlier than if it should be mentioned in a big message in a moment, and then you'll see if you're going to do something. There was also an opportunity to roll out testing at different airports in North Norway, where weather challenges have to be taken into account in particular. So both in terms of climate change, for industrial development, for Norway to be in the front line in this area, and not least for us to get faster with a green aviation programme, it would have been very nice to get SV's support. Unfortunately, this is not the case, so unfortunately this case does not receive the prompt treatment that it should have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1345	The representative Christian Torset has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1350	In this case, I think there are many ways to Rome. The important thing is not which way we choose, but how fast we get there. Therefore, it is more strange that Right and representative Thorheim do not support the proposal for full electrification by 2030 than that SV does not support the proposal for a green aviation programme. Here it's open to many good solutions. They I think we should find anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1355	Just briefly to the last exchange that was here between the representatives of Thorheim and Torset: I believe that SV also has a responsibility to follow this up here. That's why it's so bad that a voter down a green aviation program today, because that would mean you'd have gotten faster on it. As I also said in my post, the Solberg government proposed 25 million. to research centres for sustainable transport. SV had the opportunity to rectify it in the budget agreement with the Workers' Party and the Centre's party in November, but that option SV chose not to make use of. I think that's very stupid. In addition, they are voting today on the proposal for a Green Aviation Programme. Here, in a way, the ambitions and words must also be related to the actions that you have. It's clear that the Right wants to be forward-looking in green aviation, so that we get the emissions down. It's important. We have commitments both in the Paris Agreement and in the climate plan presented by the Solberg Government last year. In addition, there's a moment there that's about how we can create Norwegian business based on this here, how we can develop new technologies that create jobs, that create businesses, where we can once again export that technology to the rest of the world. That's why I think it's stupid that someone also votes against this. I can't help noticing that the Central Party representative spoke of chaos at Tromsø airport, Langnes. The reason why there is a bit of chaos there is precisely that the Solberg government has invested between 500 and 600 million. kr to upgrade the airport to make it easier for Northern Norwegian patients to get to the different airports in North Norway. At least it's new to me that the Center Party is against that expansion when, at least in other parts of North Norway, the Center Party has been very much in favour of the investment the Solberg government made at Tromsø airport, Langnes. The fact that there's going to be some chaos, I think it's just good, because it shows that you're willing to invest and also develop the airport offer in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1364	We were challenged by SV on why we do not support their proposal that a full-electrication target be set by 2030. First of all, if you want to set a goal, it has to be realistic. It's not realistic, as it looks today, to have a fully electrified automotive network by 2030, for several reasons. One thing is that technology is simply not yet mature. There's no aircraft in the air that shows that it's working. As mentioned in my main post, 1 kg with a ‘jet fuel’ produces 12 kWh of energy, while 40 kg with batteries are required to be able to take the corresponding amount of energy, and that is not physically possible. On the other hand, it also takes time to certify these planes. From the first time we see a full-electric aeroplane that can carry a sufficient number of passengers to call it a scheduled flight, it will take away quickly five years before it is certified and approved internationally. In this respect, it is particularly important, if it is to be developed in Norway, that the Ministry of Transport and the Air Safety is positive and contributes and is not bureaucratic and makes it difficult to achieve. It is also the case that it takes time from this certification until the airlines are ready to phase it in. It takes time to train pilots, it takes time to train mechanics, and it takes time to train ground personnel. We'd like to be behind a 2030 measure, but there are some obstacles in the way. What is probably the fastest and easiest solution is biofuels and alternative fuels that have lower emissions. So the state council said in the answer to my reply that we can make demands for greater blending of biofuels. The problem now is that biofuels are three to four times more expensive than fossil fuels. If we were to demand greater interference, greater demands than the EU requires, we could risk the airlines flying to Norway from foreign destinations refueling so much fuel that they have enough for the return flight, so they don't buy more expensive fuels in Norway. If there's something we don't get environmental benefits from at least, it's just that. Therefore, – once again – the EU is very important. We can draw the EU fight into this as well. It is only when you have international agreements covering a large area that we get the desired changes of attitude and the desired effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1380	I'm actually taking the word because I think we need a deadline for when the short-range network can be emission-free. I think the technology we're seeing is going a lot faster than you've expected in the past. If we look at developments for, among other things, electric cars, it was such that in 2010 Norway cheered for us selling 430 or 460 electric cars. When we decided in 2015 to set a target of selling only a zero-emission vehicle in 2025, few people thought it was possible to do so. So now we're going to have a sales percentage of over 80 pst. in Norway, and we're on track to achieve our 2025 target. It is right that we have to have approvals and that there are other processes with regard to electric aircraft, but as we mentioned, it is also a rather concentrated part of the market we have in Norway and the flights we have. I think it is necessary to set a clear target for when it is to be implemented, not necessarily a deadline. We've also come very far into it with elf ferries and zero-emission ferries. We also started with one, and then things have gone a lot faster than you expected. I want to repeat what I said here. Even if a deadline is not set in 2030, I think it is wise to do so, and I hope the Council of State will take it with me. If it's 2032 or 2034, I think it's wise to do it anyway, because this is going fast, and there are many countries that are driving the same evolution that we are doing. We have to have a clear, offensive policy to be in the driver's seat and also get the economic development we can get on both electric and other environmentally friendly aeroplanes and the environmentally friendly fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1389	I'm not going to spend that much time, but I just have to answer the right-wing representative who said that the Central Party's representative from the north was against airport expansion in Tromsø. That's not what I said. I said it was chaos, and I can explain that if you need it. What's important to do when it's chaos is to figure out how to change it, and I hope you can do it very quickly, because as it is now, it can't be. In the end, I want to say just a little bit about hurrying. I think it's important to take the time you need to get a setup that makes these planes fly safely. We've seen how it can work when you start projects for ferries and things that almost put society in a spat because you're doing environmentally friendly actions that don't work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1396	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1413	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time. The first speaker is Christian Torset, who is given the floor on behalf of the case-speaker, Mona Fagerås.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1422	The Committee on Transport and Communications has dealt with Prop. 61 S Urban package Bodø phase 2 in Northern Ireland, extended collection period and increased average tariff. The aim of the Bodø urban package is to build a roadway safe to Bodø and at the same time to facilitate pedestrians, cyclists and travellers with public transport. The development of the urban package has been under way since April 2015 and is scheduled to be completed in 2027. The toll collection started in October 2015. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party and reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the development and partial toll financing of the Urban package Bodø Phase 2 in Nordland.’ ‘The majority agrees that the Toll Company Nord is allowed to collect tolls for partial toll financing of the Urban Package Bodø Phase 2’ and ‘The Ministry of Transport is authorised to enter into an agreement with Bompengegesellschaft Nord AS on the sub-financing of the Urban Package Bodø Phase 2’. The agreement also entitles them to collect tolls within the conditions laid down in the proposal. By doing so, I consider this matter to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1440	The fact that the Urban Package Bodø Phase 2 is now being adopted, and that there is agreement between the parties locally, is a milestone and very good. Most of the projects in the urban package are now to be implemented, but some have been appropriately scaled down. The first urban package in Bodø was dealt with in 2014. The overall objective of the urban packages, including this one, is to achieve the zero growth target adopted by the Stortinget in 2012. This means that the growth of urban passenger transport is to be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. That is why it is good that a person in Bodø can also realise more badly needed measures for public transport, walking and cycling, as well as road safety and environmental measures. Then one can add up to a discussion, as the Progress Party does in its comments on the matter, which is about toll financing and how the necessary projects are to be financed. The citizens of Bodø should note that the Progress Party does not want to develop the city, improve its accessibility or reduce the number of cars. They have not proposed any other method of funding, but choose to vote against the entire package in Bodø. For us, tolls are a completely different tool in the urban packages when a local policy wants to use tolls to finance a necessary road project. Nevertheless, it is important that the tolling system is fair and that it is kept at a level acceptable to its inhabitants and that they see the effect of the measures being taken. They must also be considered in the context of tariffs in an accessible collective offer. Now there will be a new road to Bodø. I believe that this package is based on the financial framework. Then it only remains to congratulate Bodø and wish them happiness with the further development of the city and its region.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1453	I would like to see that we had managed to build roads without tolls, but unfortunately it is not feasible. We are a small country in the number of inhabitants and a large country considering the number of kilometres of road. In this case, there is a local political agreement to increase the bomb tariffs by an average of NOK 3 and to extend the recovery period by five years, that is from 15 to 20 years. Local agreement is an important part of our assessments, whether we should support projects or not. This project has become significantly more expensive than the original calculations showed. We record that there are more expansion projects where the tenders end up far more expensive than what the State Road Service has calculated. This is an unfortunate development, which we should look at in more detail. Through this decision, the project will implement several measures such as increased road safety for walking and cycling and strengthening public transport, which we are pleased to see. Right supports the proposition with an adjustment to the cost of passing the booms and an extended recovery period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1464	Of taxes and charges, we have to weigh down – that's like the receipt in this case as well. Tolls paid by the car list and the electric car list are in a way intended to finance the various collective actions. It is all but what the Council of State has also said in a number of other cases, that diet-benefit is important – that the person who pays is also the one who benefits from it. It doesn't do when it's a car list that's supposed to finance the collective effort that Billistan doesn't benefit from. It's said that we who are in favour of urban development are not in favour of developing cities. The problem is that the red-green ones, as well as the right ones, have only one goal. It is in many cities to remove the cars, but what they want to live, and what they want to remove, they also have to pay for the collective efforts, the collective supply, and the walking and cycling roads. And there's not much to it, because if you're going to remove something, it can't a remote person pay what you want – as if you're going to remove the cars. There is something that is completely out of course, and we see that in the urban package after the city package. We also see that around the country there is massive resistance to these urban packages. Urban package Ålesund e.g. In my own state, we get a case on it later, there are massive protests. They don't want these toll packages, and one can't quite understand how it hangs in a bunch. It was said by the representative from the Right that it is impossible to build a road without tolls, and it is impossible to do anything without tolls. So in my home country, the inhabitants have voted in favour of the Progress Party. We are the deciduous largest party, with over 22 pst. at the last elections in More and Romesdal. People have voted the Progress Party, they get Progress Party policy, and we have removed the tolls in all of the Moors and the Romsdal – zero tolls. So now there's competition from new government and right to get new bombs, which the signatures and others in my party have to do what we can to remove later. It is possible to build roads and develop our society without tolls. Statskassa's running out of money. When one spends money on oil and gas, on climate action, electrification of the base or sea wind, no one talks about inflation when one uses tens of billions. If a person uses the same money to build a road, they can't build without tolls. That is why we are voting against Urban Package Bodø Phase 2 in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1477	It's a happy day when you get a connection to start a road project. We see that such projects as this in Bodø are important for developing regions. I want to say that I was so lucky that I got to be with the minister now in this week that was, on a tour in Ålesund, and looked at just what such a possibility gives for a city like Ålesund. It's important to promote housing. We're looking at the quality of those who now live, for example. around the entrance road in Ålesund: they get a much higher quality, whether it be muted sound, dust, exhaust gas or whatever it should be. This provides opportunities for industry, industry and to develop a city and create good growth conditions, and this is also happening now in Bodø. I'm very happy about that. So I just want to signal that we in the Center Party are honouring on such projects and on local democracy. It is important, as we have said here, that, once local democracy is successful, we should listen to this on the Stortinget. And then we have to find good ways to solve it, and I feel that it has been done here, in consultation with local political desires. So here I just want to congratulate and wish Bodø good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1486	I would also like to signal Left's support for the setting of partial toll financing for Urban package Bodø Phase 2. This is a very good project. It is a road project, with also very good measures for walking and cycling, road safety and public transport. This will provide a better environment. This will allow many more of the original proposals or projects of the Urban Package Bodø to be implemented and it is based on a local consensus. So I think it's just positive to say about the case. I heard from the representative Sve's post. After working a lot on both transport and public transport, there's one thing I've always learned to remember, and that's that those who drive cars, bikes, travel collectively or by train, are basically the same people. It's the same people who, in different cases, use different forms of transport. Then this moderate increase in toll financing – an average of 3 kroner is available here – brings so much benefits. It gives benefits to people when they drive a car, when they travel collectively, when they walk or ride bicycles. It's the whole thing and the interaction that makes this better, so the measures will make it even better when driving a car. I think you can always say that you have more money, but it is now that we did not use tolls in Norway, I am absolutely sure that many of the measures we now get through in the urban packages would never have been implemented. This has been a great success, and we have managed to build up both collective services and other environmentally friendly travel services in the major cities of Norway. It has raised these cities to a completely different level than before, and it has also been done by toll financing. Now we do it in smaller cities. This has been a success. There are balances, and a lot of local work is required, but we need that, and we're going to have to keep going. This case is a positive case for Bodø and its surroundings.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1495	That has been said very wisely already in the debate. Good accessibility for public transport and solutions to facilitate both pedestrians and cyclists is important for a good urban environment, and it is important for Bodø to continue to grow in a sustainable way. I am therefore pleased with the majority's position in the committee: that the Stortinget is recommended to adopt the proposition on Urban Package Bodø Phase 2, in line with the government's proposal. The Bodø Phase 2 urban package is, as many have already experienced, a revision of the existing urban package in Bodø, and that package includes new projects and measures, but it shall also contribute to the implementation of as much as possible of the original projects in the Bodø Urban Package. The new measures include the conversion of parts of R & D. 80, the three-field road between Hunstad and Bodølv, with a continuous cycle field and walkway. In addition, the upgrading of the Hålogaland Street to facilitate better public transport, walking and cycling, as well as a significant upgrade of Fv. 834 Nordstrandwegen, with good solutions for soft road users and public transport. The Bodø urban package was first put into place in 2014, with the aim of building a new road to Bodø and at the same time facilitating pedestrians, cyclists and travellers with public transport. The urban package was originally composed of large road projects, etc. 80 Hunstadmoen–Thalle Cross and smaller projects by highway, highway and municipal road. In Phase 2, the portfolio as mentioned above is expanded by a number of new measures, focusing in particular on walking, cycling and public transport. Phase 2 of the Bodø urban package means that the average tariff of the toll scheme increases by approximately NOK 3 per pass and that the recovery period increases by up to five years, from 15 to 20 years in total. There is no provision for the establishment of new toll stations, and there is local political agreement on the scheme, which has also been discussed by several. Phase 2 has an economic framework of 1.1 billion. kr, and with this revision, the overall framework for the Bodø Urban Package will be approximately 4,5 billion. kr. So I am pleased that Bodø can continue with the efforts they are making in environmentally friendly transport modes, and that several good measures can now be implemented in phase 2 of the urban package.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1513	In this case, we see that the toll part should be increased, and he should also be expanded by five years. We also know that a person works a lot to turn the car into an electric car in Norway. And we've read in the media that the Minister of Transport has said that it's possible that one goes to increase the toll for an electric car. It is also the case that after 2025 all new cars purchased should be electric cars. The question then is: does the Minister for Transport plan that it is the electric cars that will finance the urban packages in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1519	It's going to be turning the issue completely upside down. We have some general social goals, and that's that we're going to reach the zero growth target. And now when we see that public transport is struggling with the pandemic, it's natural that society is looking at what kind of instruments we can contribute to getting people back on public transport, but this is no conclusion at all now. What we're considering is giving local authorities greater freedom to offer lower discounts for electric cars. If you choose that, and if you get a chance to do that, it's only fair and fair that they with electric cars also pay for that use a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1524	What's the main question, what's the deal, is that you've reached an agreement with the inhabitants to be more environmentally friendly and run a zero-eject car, and you should get a lead for it. But now the government wants people to pay full tolls every now and then, and it's kind of a violation of the contract with the residents. Does the Minister for Transport not see that this is easily perceived by the inhabitants as a failure by breaking these contracts with the inhabitants in order for them to run zero in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1529	First of all, I think using the concept of "disadvantage" is a little out of the ordinary with a view to talking about politics. But it's just that we're trying to control social development. Electric cars are part of traffic growth, and in our cities we have zero growth targets – and electric cars are included. What I can contribute, if any, is an increase in the freedom of local authorities to make that assessment themselves. I don't intend to go in and override. I do not intend to go in and say what neither Oslo, Bergen, Bodø or Ålesund will do for that matter. But I think giving increased local political freedom is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1534	That's really to the last answer. It's the Stortinget that has decided that you can take up to 50 pst. in tolls for zero-emission vehicles. It is an important instrument to achieve the objective of selling only a zero-emission vehicle. My question is then: Now the Council of State announces that he will go in to change this. The left will be very opposed. I hope you don't go that way, but I would rather ask the opposite, because the Storting has also decided that one should claim that only 50 pst should be paid. in the parking charge for a zero-emission vehicle, which has not been implemented. Then I wonder if the Council is also working to introduce such legislation, which will also be important for getting more zero-emission vehicles?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1541	I would like to say to the first that I have not concluded, but I would just like to stress that we have got a piece of work from a group that has worked on how to get the public transport back on track. It has been quite clear that looking at the advantages of electric cars in urban areas, well-labelled in urban areas, can be an instrument that should be assessed, and we have also asked the State Road Service to do so. As for the other benefits, we will soon be able to report back to Stortinget how we view it, so I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1548	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1567	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be the possibility of replying to replies from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1574	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for a good job, and we will today, at least when the matter is over, take some new, important steps towards the hydrogen investment. Focusing on hydrogen and ammonia is important in cutting greenhouse gas emissions, in particular from industry, shipping and heavy transport. In addition, there is also a potential for using hydrogen in train operation, and it is known that we still have some train sections in this country operating with diesel. Several sites in the country are also planned to produce hydrogen, among others. in Berlevåg, in Glomfjord, Meråker and other places. During the previous government, it was decided that the ferries in the new offer for the Westfjord connection should be hydrogenated. In addition to cutting greenhouse gas emissions, this will help to generate profitability for hydrogen production in Northern Ireland, more specifically Glomfjord. This was a very important decision, which has and had support far beyond the then government. In the debate on hydrogen bets, we are often also confronted with the eternal dilemma between the chicken and the egg – what comes first? Use or production? The answer is both, and I am glad that the entire committee is in a hurry to put in place tools that ensure profitability in production and in the use of hydrogen and ammonia in Norway. There is an overall committee that points out that earlier this year we saw that the large hydrogen production plans in Mongstad, under the direction of Equinor, Eviny and Air Liquide, were put in the drawer and that regret this. The reason was the lack of predictability of the framework conditions. There is an overall committee that shows the need to quickly put in place better framework conditions, such as: differences contracts, which can make it profitable to use hydrogen and ammonia even if the price is slightly higher than fossil fuels. Then I expect the different parties to explain their different positions and suggestions in this matter, and I want to take up the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1587	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1592	Hydrogen has probably never been as relevant and current as today. Norway is well placed to participate in a hydrogen market throughout the country. Both in the Hurdal platform and in the additional message, we are clear that we are going to help build a coherent value chain in hydrogen, where production, distribution and use are developing in parallel. We also say that we want to stimulate the development of climate-friendly energy carriers such as hydrogen, ammonia and biofuels for heavy transport and large ships. A short time ago, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented a new report showing that global climate emissions continue to increase. The report shows the urgency of cutting emissions and increasing the pace of migration also in Norway. That is precisely why we need to intensify efforts to develop more clean and renewable energy, and there should be no doubt: we are clear on our climate targets of 55 pst. emissions cuts in the total economy. In order to contribute to the reduction of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, it is important to facilitate the production of low or no-emission hydrogen. We will contribute to the development of a hydrogen market in Europe, and we will also create a national hydrogen market, where the state is entering as an important driver. Just like oil and gas, we need to position ourselves properly to ensure that we develop a proper hydrogen and CCS market, where Norway is going to be involved. It is therefore very positive that the government recently granted two CO 2 licences, one in the North Sea and one in the Barents Sea. The latter will contribute to the realisation of the Barents Blue project, the first large scale ammonia production plant in Europe, located in Finnmark. Both licences are important for making Norwegian base management in CO 2 storage, but also for developing blue hydrogen and ammonia throughout the country. It strengthens the development of what is already important climate action, while at the same time helping to build up under new commercial industries on Norwegian soil. Finally, as the elected representative of Finnmark, I have to say that Finnmark has some clear advantage for the production of hydrogen, such as good access to renewable energy, lower prices of electricity, access to natural gas, cold climate with cold seawater for cooling, access to CO 2 storage fields and an established energy industry. Here Berlevåg leads a national and already produces green hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1612	First, an explanation of the concept of our proposal. We're talking about a big bet. It also did when it was sea wind, but it was a halve, but this actually means that we want to increase the production of hydrogen and ammonia and put it into use. That's why the Right has proposed very specific points, ten different points, which we think will force the implementation of hydrogen and ammonia, which will have a very important role to play in positioning Norway to make use of climate-friendly technology. It also applies to contracts for differences, pilot plants and lots of other things, and it's going to be exciting to see how many lots are going in to support the ambitious points that we've proposed. So to this with the market -- West Fjordferja, which the representative Haltbrecken was in on, and making a hydrogen market. It's a little bit interesting to see also the Labour Party's attitude to this, because here we come up with a difficult question of principle, and that's what technology neutrality is. And we, or right in government, let's rather bet on hydrogen in the concrete case of ferry between Lofoten and Bodø, and we see that the fruits of now, with a totally fantastic blossoming of industry in Northernland and elsewhere to offer hydrogen to that market. I think that the government parties will also make good sense to make those kind of assessments when it comes to e.g. The Nordlandsbanen, the Rørosbanen and other such projects, which will create a large market, and which will make the use of that kind of technological solutions in the past. And in the case of blue hydrogen from the Barents Sea: I fully agree with the analysis of the representative Sivertsen Næss, but then the government must also agree that we should exploit the potential of gas in the Barents Sea, if we are so concerned that we should use blue hydrogen from there. Then we have to say yes to the 26th concession round, so that we look now and get more gas in ten years' time, we have to say yes to the area solution in the Barents Sea, which is very important, as Equinor has now presented, and thirdly we have to look at the possibility of a pipeline connecting the Barents Sea to the North Sea pipeline, so that blue hydrogen from the Barents Sea can be transported in a competitive way to Europe, instead of being launched and thus having a competitive disadvantage. Here, there are important questions both for Norway and for Finnmark. I'm dealing with the proposal that the Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1623	Then the representative, Mr. Bård Ludwig Thorheim, has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1628	Today, Siemens and Deutsche Bahn are launching their first hydrogen train, to be deployed in traffic in Bavaria. There are also sections of track in Norway where hydrogen trains can be an alternative in the future. The runway is one of them. At the Westfjord link, as mentioned above, in the future ferries on hydrogen will be sailed. And despite the fact that some people might have been more optimistic 15 years ago about building a network or getting more hydrogen-powered cars on Norwegian roads, hydrogen will be an important energy carrier in the future to cut greenhouse gas emissions in industry and in transport. This is why industry also has a number of plans for manufacturing plants in several locations in Norway. At the same time, we see that things have gone too slowly. The active substances have been absent and have recently shrunk among others. Equinor plans for a hydrogen project at Mongstad. It is in that recognition that the Workers' Party-Center Party government started its work immediately to scale up the investment, to put in place instruments through Enova and to increase the ambition of hydrogen and ammonia based on the hydrogen road map. In the government’s recent launch of the Energy Communication, it was further strengthened by making clear the ambitions to build a coherent value chain for hydrogen with low or no emissions for production, distribution and use, in parallel with the reduction of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The government will facilitate the establishment of a socio-economical profitable production of blue hydrogen, among others. through Gassco’s architectural function, by allocating the storage area of CO 2 to storage stakeholders and examining relevant development applications under the storage regulation in a timely and efficient manner. The Ministry of Oil and Energy offered exploration permits two months ago under the storage regulations on Norwegian pedestal – one in the North Sea and one in the Barents Sea. A few days later, another area in the North Sea was announced. It shows that this is a government that has ambitions and keeps the pace up in the bet, and we are pleased for that. The government has announced how the state can contribute to building a coherent hydrogen value chain, including the investigation of state ownership as an instrument. That's what we're meeting. It will be very central to the further investment in hydrogen in Norway. Hydrogen is an energy carrier Norway and the world is going to need in the future, and as a country, we have adventurous opportunities, in which the Workers' Party-Center Party government wants to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1644	There will be a pause in the debate to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1667	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tina Bru on behalf of Right and Advance Party proposal No 2, from Tina Bru on behalf of Right and Left proposal No 3, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 4, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Environment Party The Green Party and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 5–10 and 22–24, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 11, by Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of the Red Party and the Green Party proposed no. 12-14, by Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of the Red and Christian People's Party proposed no. 15-17, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Red proposed no. 18 and 21, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of Left proposal No 20, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1703	Proposal No. Twenty-three and twenty-four, from the Progress Party, were converted into transmission proposals during the debate. Proposal No. 23 will then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government ensure that infective equipment, which is about to expire, is either used in the healthcare system or can be transferred to Ukraine or the countries around it, which is currently heavily under pressure from refugees. It may include respiratory protection.» Proposal No. 24 will then read: ‘It is recommended that the Government follow up as soon as possible the decision of the Storting in order to ensure the production of infectious equipment in Norway and that equipment in the process of dating be replaced by new products, in order to ensure a good stockpiling if the challenges associated with the pandemic should come back to full.’ The proposals will be sent to the government without any actual vote. There will be a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1793	There will be a vote on proposal No. Twenty-one, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 1700 Ministry of Defence 51 Contributions to weapons fund are granted by: [[NY]] 400,000 from NOK 0 to NOK 40000000
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1860	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1870	There will be a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 1700 Ministry of Defence 79 Grants to the EU Peace Facility are granted by: [[NY]] [[EPF]] 1,000,000 from NOK 0 to NOK 1000000
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e1948	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 15-17, from Red. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 572 Framework grant to county municipalities 60 Intrinsic subsidies are increased by: 670,000 from NOK 40 129 892 000 to NOK 40 799 892 000 671 Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants 60 Integration grants, may be transferred, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 8 279 665 000 to NOK 8 329 665 000 840 Action against violence and abuse 70 Grants for violence prevention, etc. , may be used under heading 21 and heading 61 and Chapter. 858, entry 1 shall be increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 145 912000 to NOK 195 912000 846 Family and growth measures 61 Subsidies for the inclusion of children and young people may be used under heading 71, increased by: 50,000,000 from NOK 657,489 000 to NOK 707,489 000 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. 74 Direct grants may be transferred, increased by: 100000 000 from NOK 10 636 700000 to NOK 10 736 700000 1352 Railway Directorate 70 Purchases of passenger transport services by train, can be transferred, can be used under item 71, increased by: 580,000 from NOK 4 981 300000 to NOK 5 561 300000 1710 Defence and new buildings and new installations Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs may be carried over, reduced by: 150000000 from NOK 5 311 669 000 to NOK 5 161 669 000 47 New buildings and new installations may be transferred, reduced by: 130 000 000 from NOK 3732 802,000 to NOK 3602 802 000 1720 Defendant Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 1,280,000,000 from NOK 33 847 891000 to NOK 35 127 891000 5521 Value added tax 70 Value added tax, reduced by: 1,867,000,000 from NOK 360 33000000 to NOK 358 463000000
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e2355	Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to ensure that the bill for increased costs resulting from the war in Ukraine is recovered in a fair manner, such as through increased tax on company profits and dividends and more progressive taxation of high incomes and of large assets.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘Decision amending the Decision of the Grand Duchy on value added tax Decision No 2022 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2021 on value added tax for 2022 is amended as follows: I Section 3 the following new second paragraph is added: From 1 May 2022 to 30 June 2022 VAT shall be equal to 7,5 pst. the placing on the market, withdrawals and introduction of foodstuffs as referred to in the VAT Act § 5-2. II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e2385	There will be a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Red Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the municipalities to set up temporary municipal or intermunicipal clinics to ensure that refugees have access to health care from their arrival until they are resident in the municipalities and have been granted permanent leave.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e2400	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 12-14, from the Red Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 5538 Fuel user charge 70 The user charge on petrol is reduced by: 700 000 000 from NOK 420000 000 to NOK 350000 000 5538 Fuel user charge 71 A user charge on automotive diesel is reduced by: 1 500,000,000 from NOK 9 470000000 to NOK 7 970000000 5542 Fee on mineral oil, etc. 70 The base charge on mineral oil, etc., is reduced by: 300000 000 from NOK 1750000000 to NOK 1450000000
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e2544	Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘Decision on the amendment of the Storting’s decision on the excise duty on fuel I The European Coal and Steel Community Decision of 14 December 2021 on the excise duty on fuel is amended as follows: Paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: From 1 May 2022 until 30 June 2022 no fee shall be paid after the first subparagraph. II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘Decision amending the decision of the Storting on the base charge for mineral oil, etc. I In its decision of 14 December 2021 on the base charge for mineral oil, etc. is amended as follows: Section 1 the following fourth paragraph is added: From 1 May 2022 until 30 June 2022 no fee shall be paid after the first subparagraph. II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e2586	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 5-10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 440 Police Add User-ID Succeeded Operating costs are increased by: 867 388 000 from NOK 20,894,700000 to NOK 21,762,088 000 5521 Value added tax 70 Value added tax, reduced by: 5,000,000 from NOK 360 330000000 to NOK 355 330000000 5538 Fuel user charge 70 The user charge on petrol is reduced by: 2,300,000,000 from NOK 420000 to NOK 1950000000 5538 Fuel user charge 71 A user charge on automotive diesel is reduced by: 5,390,000 from NOK 9 470000000 to NOK 4080000000 5538 Fuel user charge 72 Road user charge for natural gas and LPG is reduced by: 10000000 from NOK 14000000 to NOK 4000000 5542 Fee on mineral oil, etc. 70 The base charge on mineral oil, etc., is reduced by: 1,000,000 from NOK 1750000000 to NOK 750000 5542 Fee on mineral oil, etc. 71 Fee on lubricating oil etc. , is reduced by: 70000000 from NOK 125000000 to NOK 55000000 5543 Environmental taxes on mineral products, etc. 70 CO 2 tax, reduced by: 6,900,000 from NOK 11 017 000 to NOK 4 117 000
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e2925	Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Decision amending the Decision of the Grand Duchy on value added tax I The decision of 14 December 2021 on value added tax for 2022 is replaced by the following from 1 May 2022: from 1 May 2022: Section 3 is replaced by the following: § 3 Reduced rate by 7.5 pst. for food VAT is payable at 7,5 pst. the placing on the market, withdrawals and introduction of foodstuffs as referred to in the VAT Act § 5-2. II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Decision on the amendment of the Storting’s decision on the excise duty on fuel I Decision of the European Parliament of 14 December 2021 on the excise duty on fuel is repealed. II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘Decision amending the decision of the Storting on the base charge for mineral oil, etc. I Decision of the European Parliament of 14 December 2021 on the base charge for mineral oil, etc. the text shall be deleted; II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘Decision amending the decision of the Storting regarding the levy on lubricating oil, etc. I Decision of the European Parliament of 14 December 2021 on a levy on lubricating oil, etc. the text shall be deleted; II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘Decision amending the Decision of the Grand Duchy on excise duties applicable to 2022 B. CO 2 tax on mineral products is replaced by the following: I Decision of 14 December 2021 on excise duties on 2022 B. CO 2 tax on mineral products is repealed. II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e3013	There will be a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement as soon as possible the changes necessary to eliminate taxes and duties on goods imported from Ukraine and, where appropriate, to make the necessary proposals in advance of the Storting.’ The left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e3030	There will be a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government of the revised national budget of 2022 is asked to submit proposals to finance humanitarian aid to Ukraine, or to receive refugees from Ukraine, in ways other than by reducing other assistance to the world’s poor.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e3045	There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the implementation of the IEA ten-point plan and return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget of 2022 with concrete proposals on how to implement the plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e3060	There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Advisory Committee on Fiscal Analysis to issue an independent opinion on fiscal policy and government proposals in the context of the revised national budget 2022.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e3075	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with private health professionals in order to assist and relieve the local health service and the permanent scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5051	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5056	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5061	We're resuming the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5073	The rest of I and II-VII will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5091	During the debate, Mr Steffensen has presented six proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘I Decision of the European Parliament of 14 December 2021 on the base charge for mineral oil, etc. the text shall be deleted; II The amendment shall enter into force on 1 May 2022.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Decision of 14 December 2021 on the excise duty on fuel is amended as follows: Paragraph 1(a) and (b) of the first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: a. Gasoline per litre; 1st sulphur-free petrol NOK 4.95, [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] 2. low-sulphurised petrol NOK 4.99, [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] 3. other petrol: NOK 4.99. From 1 April 2022 the rates shall be set at NOK 0 per litre. b. Mineral oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles per litre; [[autodiesel]] 1st sulphur-free mineral oil NOK 3,52, [[(less than 10 ppm sulphur):]] 2. low-sulphurised mineral oil NOK 3,58, [[(less than 50 ppm sulphur):]] 3. other mineral oil: DKK 3,58 From 1 April 2022 the rates shall be set at NOK 0 per litre.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to remove the user charge for biodiesel, bioethanol, LPG and natural gas.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘In Decision of the European Parliament of 14 December 2021 on environmental taxes on mineral products, etc. B. The CO 2 tax on mineral products is amended as follows: In the first paragraph of Section 1, points (a) and (b) are replaced by the following: a. Mineral oil kr 2,05 per litre. [[(general rate):]] From 1 April 2022 the general rate is set at NOK 0 per litre. Mineral oil for: domestic air transport subject to allowances: DKK 1,61 per litre; other domestic aviation and private non-commercial flights: NOK 1,96 per litre. b. petrol: DKK 1,78 per litre; From 1 April 2022 the rate shall be set at NOK 0 per litre.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to remove the CO 2 tax on LPG and natural gas.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prepare a possible reduction in the rate, or full exemption from VAT on petrol and diesel, if fuel prices continue at or above the current level, and come back to Stortinget with proposals at the latest in the revised national budget for 2022.’ These proposals and recommendations from the Committee will be replaced by an alternative. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5204	During the debate, Ms Sneve Martinussen presented a proposal on behalf of Mr Raudt. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for measures against high price growth that affect the economy of ordinary people, which can be adopted before the summer.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5227	The size of the store then goes over to vote on the matter no. 1 to 5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5284	During the debate, Mr Moxnes has presented three proposals on behalf of Mr Red. There will be a vote on proposal No. 3 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that an assessment is made of how Norway can benefit from the EEA Agreement by following Iceland’s model of introducing EU/EEA legislation only ‘as far as appropriate’.’; The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5303	There will be a vote on proposal No. 2 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the competence of ESA and the EFTA Court of Justice in the field of working life is assessed as an appropriate part of the EEA Agreement, or can be better resolved, in line with the requirements of the Joint Undertaking.’;» The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5320	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that investigation is made into the primacy of Norwegian collective bargaining agreements and Norwegian labour law before EU rules, in line with the requirements of the LO Congress.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5337	The President will also propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement on important EU and EEA matters, held at the Stockholm meeting on 3 May 2022, be included in the meeting book. – It's a co-conspirator's confession.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5353	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Trond Helleland on behalf of Right proposal No 2, by Alfred Jens Bjørlo on behalf of the Left There will be a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a full broadband coverage plan by 2025, defined as 95 pst. broadband coverage of at least 1 Gbit/s and at least 100 Mbit/s for the remaining households/enterprises.» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5379	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with a plan to maximise the societal and climate benefits of broadband by, inter alia, increasing the efficiency of the public sector and increasing the value creation and climate related to private and public sector digitisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5394	The left informed in the hall that they would support the proposal, but it was not informed about it now. That is the original proposal of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5399	Then we take the vote again. It is to be understood that the Left has already given its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5418	Right and Left have notice that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5437	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Erlend Larsen on behalf of Right and Advance Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Christian Torset on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the suspension of Avinor’s bonus schemes for new long-range routes and airlines with passenger growth. It also asks the government to determine whether this money can be used to convert aviation instead.’ The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5463	There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requires the government to set a measure of full electrification of the short-range network by 2030’.» The Left, the Red and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5480	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case for the Stortinget with proposals for a green aviation programme.’ Red, Left and Green parties The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5517	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5564	Norway needs to get a long way towards a low-carbon society by 2030 if there is to be any realism in the climate target. It requires a large-scale effort to electrify the mainland industry and transport. If we're going to make it, we also have to bet on hydrogen and ammonia. It is necessary for the Norwegian fleet, which the world-leading shipyards and research communities can use as a starting point for a large-scale investment in and development of hydrogen as a fuel for ferries, ships and land transport. It can also contribute to even more environmentally friendly power-processing industries in the future. It is clear that a number of measures are needed if Norway is to succeed in doing so, and some such proposals have been made by the Right. At the same time, they go in to limit some of the instruments that the government considers, and I don't think they argue that well. That both Equinor and Statkraft have great ambitions for hydrogenation, is just saying that state ownership is an important part of the solution. We are totally dependent on state ownership and efforts to cut emissions and create jobs in the future. Therefore, Red also opposes most of the Right's proposals in this case. Hydrogen sequestration must help get us out of the oil and gas age. In the Eyeyard outside of Bergen, which has been referred to earlier today, we have seen that limited access to power and the grid makes an actor who wants to build hydrogen factories out of competition by the oil and gas industry who wants to electrify platforms from land. The oil and gas industry is even charged with the cost of the petroleum tax. Red has announced support for proposal No. 10, from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, about the quick boating in the county municipalities. Good frameworks for the climate work of the counties are important, so that this does not lead to high costs for customers, because it will result in less use and less climate impact of what is being carried out. Today, the county councils are underfunded on this very point, and I dare remind you that the previous government, which is actually promoting this proposal now, has much of the responsibility for that underfinancing. We need a number of measures to increase hydrogen content, and they need to be targeted in a way that cuts emissions and develops Norwegian industry and business. Red will not reject contracts of differences as part of that solution in the future, but it is under given assumptions. Neither the Solberg Government's Energy Communication nor the Støre Government's Supplements provide good enough answers to how we're going to get to that hydrogen deployment, and we hope and believe that the Committee can develop several good proposals in the energy communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5577	When Europe is going to cut its emissions by 55 pst. by 2030, hydrogen and green or blue ammonia must be a central component to achieve that objective. From the Norwegian side, if we look past 2030, our goal for 2050 is to cut 90 pst. of our emissions in 2030. That's what the law says – that's a much stronger and more ambitious goal than becoming climate-neutral. That is, we have to stop all fossil fuels by 2050. Hydrogen wagers have also been made in the past by Norway. The previous government put forward a hydrogen strategy, and there has been a focus on hydrogen via Enova and other support schemes. We were also in the process of getting hydrogen filling stations in place, but unfortunately it stopped when we got the explosion in Sandvika in the previous period. It has actually stopped completely and needs to get a new drive in it. Hydrogen will not be necessary for so many of the passenger cars, but some are, but in heavy transport and especially shipping, hydrogen and ammonia will be a very central part of what we need to stop the fossil fuels. When we look at these proposals, the question is, as others have also said: Do you need to focus on measures to increase production, or is the demand that is important to get started? I think clearly that when we look at hydrogen, it's on the demand side we have to put in the policy measures, because it goes too late to get it up, and you don't get the production you need. The technology is there, the possibilities are there, and also the interest, but it goes too late on the demand side. Then this is about continuing, that is, using all the tools we have, for example. by tender. Several have referred to the ferry section in the West Fjord, and that is important. However, we also need to put in place a filling infrastructure to ensure that heavy transport and those to invest in shipping have a predictability that it will be organised when they make their investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5588	At first I think it is very nice that the Storting is so engaged in hydrogen. There is no doubt that hydrogen is an important energy carrier in the future, with a significant potential to reduce emissions from a number of sectors – not least, as mentioned, from the transport sector, and then perhaps heavier vehicles first and foremost. The maritime sector can be very relevant for ammonia, and we also have a great need in the industry. We have a long experience in using and producing hydrogen in Norway — a nearly 100-year history. I visited Nel at Notodden, who is now developing electrolysers that can be so effective that they can actually be used to balance the grid for unregulated force. Hydrogen faces an exciting future, and I think we're at the front of the shoe when it comes to the hydrogen bet. In particular, Enova has provided significant support for three major industrial projects with Yara, Tizir and Horizon Energy of over 1 billion. kr. In addition, we are committed to further developing value chains for use, as the Stortinge says, and we are also trying to actively work towards market developments in Europe in terms of blue hydrogen. So there's a lot of exciting things about hydrogen, and we've already started a bunch of tools, just to support the possibility of generating more energy projects. So just a little bit to the suggestions, and especially then proposal no. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and Christian People's Party, which I really agree with. That's where they say: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of new instruments that may trigger hydrogen or ammonia projects as an energy carrier, including contracts for differences.’ I must say that I very much agree with that proposal, but that is how the government is already doing it. We also wrote it very clearly in our reply letter to the committee that we are considering different tools and more tools to support hydrogen. We also explained that Enova can already use differential contracts as a basis for promoting hydrogen in different phases. So I think the basis is there. We're in a time window where the hydrogen development is in the start-up phase, but it's important that we manage to develop, as the representative Elvesuen was inside, precisely the demand side, and then I think that contributing to the European system of putting in place blue hydrogen will be very crucial. Then it's important that we also prepare Norwegian base for what's happening to the blue hydrogen, to capture CO 2 and deposit CO 2. And we have then allocated and also announced new possibilities for just storing CO 2 as part of this hydrogen strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5618	Earlier this year, the boring news came that the hydrogen project at Mongstad, directed by Eviny, Air Liquide and Equinor, was being scraped. One main reason for this was the lack of efforts by the government, among other things. in contracts for differences, which could have ensured profitability in this work. In the letter to the Committee, the Minister of Oil and Energy states that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will launch a comprehensive study on the possibilities of hydrogen, which will include the assessment of new instruments. My question is, When will this investigation come, and when can actors have the security to start their projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5631	As we announced, we are now working on this. I can't fixed the time just when we're going to put this forward, but it's important for the government to put in place instruments that actually work. With regard to the specific project mentioned by the representative Haltbrecken, I believe it is correct and important that it is an actor like Enova who actually assesses how to enter and, if necessary, assist or not assist the various projects. Enova has the ability to use differential contracts in its toolbox, and I think it's right that that's the assessment they're making, which we're dealing with. I think it would be wrong if I, as a government council or someone at some political level, were to assess the individual projects and the instruments that are right. I think we need to develop more instruments, perhaps more powerful instruments, in the continuation, but it is important that it is done by competent professional environments that understand what is needed, absolutely best.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5638	Can I then interpret the answer from the Council of State to the point that he believes it was entirely okay that the hydrogen project at Mongstad was scraped?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5643	I haven't said that at all. I have said that it is natural that it is Enova who assesses it, and I think that is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5648	My question is about blue hydrogen. As the representative Sivertsen Næss emphasised, the Barents Sea is very important in this context. Is it such that the Council of State sees the development of more gas in the Barents Sea in a new light, given the possibilities that are for blue hydrogen? Then I am thinking of both area resolution, 26th concession round and also exploring the possibility of connecting the Barents Sea to the North Sea pipeline network.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5654	I think the Barents Sea has many exciting opportunities in itself to further develop oil and gas production, but renewable energy production in the Barents Sea is also exciting. I think Horizon Energy has an exciting project. The development of blue hydrogen can be a great potential. There will in itself be an evacuation solution for gas found and produced in the Barents Sea in connection with the LNG from Melkøya. So there are evacuation possibilities that are already there for gas that is being found now and in the future, in the case of the Barents Sea. With regard to the specific gas pipeline the representative asks about, it is for the investigation and assessment of Gassco right now, and I will of course wait for how Gassco assesses this. There has been a lot of discussion, but to me it is important, also through infrastructure and these kinds of evacuation solutions, to actually focus on the activity in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5661	It was an uplifting answer and good to hear. It is true that the European Commission has been skeptical of Arctic gas. Given the situation we are now seeing, where the Rystad report says that Europe will need gas out by 2050, and the potential for blue hydrogen, the government will take an initiative to bring the EU together to get both gas and later on blue hydrogen from the Barents Sea as a common solution, and make them understand better that there are win-win situations here, including the good traditions we have for sustainable management?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5668	There is some EU Commission not only once, but several times it has stated, actually over several years. I remember a few years ago, when they started this, and I think they might perceive the Barents Sea and the areas where we're doing activity, in a completely different way. There are no isolated areas in any way. Having an active approach to it and also how we are able to produce, but not least to present the opportunities in the Barents Sea for a future energy mix in Europe, is important, in terms of both gas and blue hydrogen, in this context. So we're following up on the lead to make the European Commission look at this with the same eyes as the Norwegian authorities have done, which is actually very much in line with the views of the European Commission, after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5673	I will not begin to try to interpret the views of the European Commission. I think we might have a slightly different view of what it is. If we look at Europe today and the Russian attack on Ukraine, Europe will need more gas both because of climate action and because of the attack, but they will also intensify the removal of gas. So it'll be more gas, but shorter than what you've seen in the past. At the same time, it is clear that with the climate ambitions that exist, blue hydrogen must be part of what you also need in Europe, at least for a very long time. Then my question is: how will the Council of State set up the policy to control our production of gas as well, towards a production of blue hydrogen that goes beyond just having storage capacity on the base?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5682	There I think the representative Elvesuen had a very sensible approach in his speech. It is that we should initially develop production as demand increases. Contributing to Europe, and not least different countries in Europe, becomes even more concerned and sees the possibilities of blue hydrogen becoming important, but also the storage of CO 2. So we are actively working towards the EU, the Commission and the countries, to promote the opportunities that lie in blue hydrogen. We have said in the additional message that we want to contribute to that in the case of blue hydrogen, we have a production development that is in line with market developments. I think market developments are going to get pretty fast. We have a lot of interesting things in the transport sector. Larger, bigger actors within the truck are in the process of introducing hydrogen as a solution. We see it not least related to the industrial environments. Germany, as an example, is very active in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5692	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5699	Will Norway be able to achieve the objectives we have set under the Paris Agreement up to 55 pst. Emission cut by 2030, I am convinced that we need a large-scale commitment to the production of hydrogen and ammonia – this because hydrogen and ammonia are an energy carrier with significant potential to reduce emissions from a number of sectors, e.g. major vehicle and ship. In addition, hydrogen and ammonia will play a crucial role in meeting Europe's energy needs when they are going away from coal and when they are eventually to be less dependent on oil and gas. I come from a state that has access to a lot of renewable energy, but also natural gas at the process plant on Kårstø. Therefore, everything is in place to build up a new and green industrial production of hydrogen and ammonia not only in Rogaland, but also several other places in the country. So-called green hydrogen and ammonia are made from renewable energy, where one has already gone far in the planning of an ammonia factory, for example. in Sauda. Last week I attended the presentation of the plans for a hydrogen filling station in Sandnes. In the long term, one could produce significant amounts of blue hydrogen and ammonia using the large amounts of natural gas we have. If this is to happen without large emissions, we depend on getting a solution for CO 2 capture and storage. Therefore, I am pleased that we have now received a government that is clear that we will help build a coherent value chain for low or no emissions hydrogen, where production, distribution and use develop in parallel. Already in the additional round of the state budget last year, the government strengthened its work on hydrogen, including: with increased appropriations for the Research Council and Enova. In December, Enova awarded over 1 billion. kr to three specific hydrogen projects on the island of Her Island outside Porsgrund, Tyssedal and Hammerfest respectively. Then it is positive that the Right places hydrogen and ammonia on the agenda with its representative proposal. But I can't let go of pointing out that it's a shame that the Right didn't take hold of this for the eight years they put in government. Only in the summer of 2020 did the then oil and energy minister come with what was called a hydrogen strategy, but as the Right has certainly tried to forget, the strategy was slaughtered, among others. in Technical Weekend, which wrote: ‘There has been a long process leading to the submission of this strategy’. [[...]] Once again, we see that the Right is now promoting opposition representatives to try to cover up that they did not deliver anything at all during the eight years they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5718	There are several municipalities that are now sitting and considering new tenders for, among other things. high-speed boat services, which wish to bet on zero-emission solutions, but which do not currently ensure that the increased costs they may incur are covered. Fortunately, in the budget agreement of last autumn concluded by SV with the Government Parties, there is a point that the State is to contribute to the additional costs associated with the choice of zero emission solutions, inter alia. speedboats. We expect the government to comply now with the revised national budget, so that we will in future avoid making tenders that mean large emissions. The intention of proposal No 10, from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, to increase the financial support for zero-emission solutions, we share, but we are afraid that taking it from the Climate Action without simultaneously saying that climate action should be strengthened, will be wrong and will go beyond other important climate action. That is why we are not going to support that proposal. But we still expect the government to comply with the point of the budget agreement in the revised national budget, which will give us the zero-emission solutions on the water in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5725	I record in the debate that the representative Thorheim from the Right is very interested in a pipeline from the Barents Sea and connects it to the North Sea. That's an interesting wish, because it can mean so many things. There may be, among other things: This means that Melkøya and Hammerfest LNG are shut down, for the previous investigations that have been carried out on a gas pipeline, it has been that they include the gas from the Snow White field in order to defend such an extension. I want to refer to what the Council of State says, and that is that there are three alternatives here, and two of them will at least mean building communities in the north. One is to bet on Barents Blue, the ammonia plant, as an area gas solution for the Barents Sea. The second is a Train 2 on Melkøya, which would also mean significant activity in the north. So I'm going to ask the representative Thorheim to follow up on Gassco's work – and rather stand by me and fight north. So to what goes on differences contracts. There is now a proposal that seems to have a majority to consider new instruments. The Council of State was very clear that this is a work that is already in progress, and Enova is already using contracts of differences as an instrument. I would also like to refer to the budget agreement for 2022 with the government parties and SV, where there is also mention that contracts for differences are emphasised as a suitable instrument for starting up a green industrial development. But in order not to create uncertainty out there with the actors, it is that we can go into proposal No. 1, which in any case is a work already in progress, as the Council of State said. But I ask a little question to the posterity of the treatment, about how productive it is to make a decision in the Stortinget on matters the government is already working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5736	I'll answer to the representative Sivertsen Næss. I think we have a common desire and intention to do the best for Finnmark and North Norway, and then the question is how to do it. I think, first of all, that we have to look for more gas, which is the whole basis for blue hydrogen and for LNG. So I also think that the LNG market is going to be very good for a very long time to come, when the whole world is going to change, and it's going to be a substitute for coal far beyond Europe. So I think it's possible to do more things here. Then I have to make it clear that the Right wants to evaluate such a connection between the Barents Sea and the North Sea pipeline, and it's very positive if it's already going on. I think that should definitely be considered carefully, and of course also look at the ringing effects of something like that in Finnmark and North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5743	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5761	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5768	I would like to thank the Committee for its work on this matter. The Committee has gathered that 2021 has been a troubled year in the world's energy markets and that in 2022 the situation has been reinforced by Russia's military attacks on Ukraine. The war has a major impact on the world's energy markets and will shape Europe's energy policy in the future. Then we record that the European Commission is now taking the initiative to introduce a ban on Russian oil, and several countries will become independent of Russian gas. This winter clearly shows that the importance of stable access to energy, at prices that people can pay, has gained a new weight in energy policy discussions around the world. So to the Labour Party policy: we are clear, in the Hurdal platform and in the supplementary message. Norway shall continue to be a stable gas supplier and a predictable EU energy cooperation partner. We will continue to conduct concession rounds and grant new extraction permits for oil and gas. The predefined areas, i.e. TFO, are currently covering most of the open, available search area on the Norwegian base. It is therefore of great importance to ensure the stability of our energy supplies that a proposal for a TFO call for 31 blocks has now been sent to the TFO area in the Barents Sea at public consultation. It is by looking to facilitate new findings in the years to come, and new findings are crucial to ensuring jobs, value creation and production – and not least for the security of Europe’s supply. So to the budget agreement with SV, it says that the 26th concession round will not be announced in 2022. It doesn't say anything about 2023 or the way forward. In fact, in the case of numbered rounds, the Progress Party spent three years in government before bringing in the first numbered round. So it's nothing new that the number of rounds is not published every year. Like the proposers, the Workers' Party is also committed to increasing export capacity from the Barents' Sea. It will not least make it more attractive for companies to explore in this area, and it will contribute to increased activity on bases and in coastal supply businesses, especially in the north. Here Gassco is investigating different solutions, and it's a work we're following with great interest. In this context, the choice of solution will have to take into account that more of the value creation remains local and that it will have ring-fenced effects on land. This is particularly important in the north, which the Hurdal platform is also very clear on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5783	The Oil Directorate estimates that 50 pst. of our remaining resources are in the Barents Sea. So even if the demand for natural gas and oil for combustion is reduced, the demand for natural gas will be an input in the production of, for example, natural gas. blue hydrogen, can increase and the demand for oil for petrochemicals can increase. To reach the 1.5 degree target, the median shows in the IPCC scenario, as described in Message. St. 14 for 2020-2021, the Solberg government perspective message, a global output decline of 54 pst. oil and 37 pst. gas towards 2050. Norwegian petroleum production is estimated to fall by 65 pst. during the same period. Norway today produces 2 million barrels of oil a day. With a drop of 65 pst. the production will be approx. 700,000 barrels per day in 2050. In the IEA's net zero scenario, by 2050 demand is estimated at 24 million barrels per day. Only the gas demand in a non-zero scenario is estimated to be 17 pst. of current production, i.e. 118 standard m 3 gas annually. 7 pst. of which, one will be for power generation with CCS cleaning, and 10 pst. shall pursue other purposes, such as: blue hydrogen. This means that Europe will demand much more gas than our well-known findings on the base represent. That means we should look for more – not less. We now see that the EU enters into gas supply agreements with Qatar and the United States, and both countries have significantly greater production emissions than on Norwegian base. Transporting gas from the United States and Qatar must take the form of liquefied LNG, which is transported on ships – a very energy-efficient method when we can alternatively supply gas from our socket to Europe. In the fall, Baltic Pipe is being opened, our new pipeline bringing gas from the base to new markets in Poland. It's important to realize that even if we get more pipes, we can't deliver any more gas. We only get a bigger market and right demand. Of course, we should have had a lot more gas to fill these pipes with. It is also worth noting that the oil companies have high return requirements, so that investments on Norwegian pedestal are currently being paid off early. Looking forward to 2050 will reduce insecurity if we do great things. In today's climate and energy crisis in the world, there are many reasons to look for more gas. Therefore, the Right is in favour of the government opening up the 26th concession round, and we support the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter. We just need it out of climate change. And I'm taking this up with me Right and the Progress Party's suggestions on the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5807	The representative, Ove Trellevik, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5812	This is a proposal that's really more about games and tactics, so maybe that's why you get a little confused. It is war in Europe that Russia has attacked neighbouring Ukraine. That's a situation the few of us could see for us just a year ago. This situation has helped to make a challenging energy situation in Europe even more difficult. As a large oil and gas nation with a democratic and stable governance system, Norway has gained a more important role in that image, a role we must take seriously, and that requires us to set up. There is a broad consensus in the Stortinget, as I see it, that in this situation Norway has a special responsibility to export gas to Europe, in a situation where significant parts of it before the war came from Russia, and now either are to be phased out or stopped from the supplier. The fact does not depend on the announcement of a 26th concession round, as you are now trying to produce it. The proposal we are discussing today must therefore be seen as a little unnecessary, and probably in order to create a disagreement that is not there. In the previous eight years, when the Progress Party itself was responsible for the Oil and Energy Ministry in seven of these, and the last year acted as active support wheels, three numbered concession rounds were announced. This, of course, knows the Progress Party, but it was not an obstacle to exploration activity. The concession system is known to be based on two schemes. It is the numbered one, and it is the allocation of pre-numbered areas, known as TFO, which are exploration activities in mature and familiar areas. The concession rounds take place annually and provide for a smooth restocking of new exploration area. That scheme will also be implemented now, as it has been practised for decades. The same would also apply to the system of numbered allocations, when it is considered that the time has come and where there is interest among the actors. When looking in immature areas, it takes many years before the findings are in production, while the TFO rounds can go significantly faster. The fields on the Norwegian base produce as much gas as they can, or very close to it. It goes as fast as brakes and clothes can hold. In response to the war in Ukraine, the government has also taken small other short-term action, and based on applications from rightholders, the Ministry has taken decisions on adjusted production permits from, among others. the fields Oseberg, Troll and Heidrun. Those decisions do not significantly increase the total daily export of gas from Norwegian Socket, but facilitate the continuation of the high level of supply at present. This shows that the government is turning all the stones in order to be a reliable gas supplier to Europe for a very difficult time, and we will continue to do so. But it does not happen by trying to create false contradictions, as the Progress Party is trying with its proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5827	The war in Ukraine has led Europe into an energy crisis, and with a European desire to cut its dependence on Russian gas it is leading Norway into a very special situation and position. Norway is by Russia Europe's largest gas supplier, and now we have to contribute what we can to maintain and preferably increase our gas supplies. I had really hoped that the new situation would lead to a reassessment of the agreement that the government has with SV to postpone the 26th concession round. To Myhrvold – yes, that means something. This could lead to Norway strengthening its position as a stable and predictable supplier of natural gas to Europe. Without new findings, Norwegian deliveries will decrease, they will decrease too much every year. We could read today about Equinor's goal of being the world's most recent supplier of oil. There are hard targets from one of Europe’s most important energy suppliers when they plan to deliver oil and gas to Europe for many decades yet, and it is regrettable that some in this room do not take it into account. Also, to those who believe that there is more renewable power Norway is going to contribute, let me include Norway exporting around 15 TWh with force every year, but Norway is thus delivering 1,500 TWh only in natural gas to Europe. It shows that there is an export with limited value for Europe, while being part of the contribution to unacceptable prices of force in Norway. A reasonable amount of new renewable energy shall enter the energy mix before being able to replace natural gas. I also wanted to get into the Barents Sea, and I refer to our proposal to put in place an export solution of gas from the Barents Sea. It should definitely have been in place during the 26th round of the concession. Until now, the political discussion has been greater on how we can limit the opportunities in the Barents Sea than on how we can exploit the opportunities offered by the Barents Sea. An export solution would make it much more attractive to look for in the Barents Sea, and would be an important contribution to continuing the development of the industry in North Norway, for, after all, two thirds of all undiscovered resources are on the Norwegian base in the Barents Sea. If Europe is to cope with the transition we are now facing, Norway must contribute. I am very pleased that the Right has taken up the proposals for the Progress Party. You should have done so much, much more of it!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5842	Then it's settled!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5847	The proposals mentioned by the Progress Party and the Right that have now been addressed are bad ones that do not solve any of the world’s things – they contribute on the contrary to creating and strengthening a climate crisis. If you think about helping Europe to free itself from Russian gas, it shows that you know incredibly little about how it works and how long it takes in Norwegian oil and gas policy. If you start looking today and do a find tomorrow, it will take 15-20 years for you to start extracting that oil and gas – 15-20 years: then we'll write 2040. It is during a period when both Norway and Europe should have almost zero greenhouse gas emissions. Europe will have gone much further in its climate policy at the time, and several countries are likely to have followed Denmark, which recently said that not only would they cut their emissions by 70 p.m., they would also be independent of fossil gas. So the gas and the oil that the Right and Advance Party now want to facilitate that we're going to find and pick up, it's not certain there's any buyers of at the time the platforms are ready. It will have cost us a lot of money and large emissions, and we will have spent valuable skills and labour on the solutions of the past rather than using that competence and labour to develop e.g. sea wind. It is worrying that we are now facing fifty new oil and gas projects as a result of the oil tax package, which will seize important resources in the yard industry along the Norwegian coast. There is also a very worrying development in what we have heard about the TFO scheme, allocation in predefined areas. The latest government proposal for a TFO call, which is now being consulted, proposes to highlight blocks within the actual ice edge. These are areas that are important production areas for food in the Barents Sea, and it is important to address these issues. I am therefore addressing the proposal SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5858	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5863	I will start by joining all that the representative Haltbrecken just said. And then I'm going to go on – because yes, it's true that you have your own situation in Europe, with the war and Russia's attack on Ukraine, and that you have a Europe that needs to end its consumption of Russian gas. Therefore, we also need more gas; there will be a need for more. But we must also take into account that what Europe is doing is strengthening the transition and reduction in the use of gas. So they need more, but they'll need it in a shorter time. That's why there's no reason to start with the 26th concession round. There will be areas from which one in any case will not get any production in the long term. The representative said the halt break said 15–20 years, but even if the fastest scenarios are taken, it takes 10–15 years to get some production, and then the situation will be that Europe must have come a long way in reducing its consumption of gas as well. Remember, there's also a dynamics. One dynamic is the negative news that we are still receiving, with the consequences of climate change. Just now, there was record heat in India and Pakistan, and you're still getting news about how the ice is retreating in the polar regions. This will strengthen in the future. It also means that policy will be strengthened. It is also in the Paris Agreement itself that every five years the European Union, and therefore also we, should review the objectives and how we should further strengthen the climate objectives we have set ourselves. Now it's 55 pst. which is the goal in the EU, and in 2025 a new round is needed to strengthen that objective. We're also part of that agreement. So with regard to the discussion of the 26th concession round: there is no reason to expand the areas for more oil and gas production. We are constantly getting reports that more than enough oil and gas have already been found for the consumption we need, if we're going to stay within the 1.5 degree point. I would therefore like to refer to the proposal that exists, which the Left is also behind, that in predefined areas allocations should also be made to the Grand Duchy for treatment when they extend their areas. Because this is what happens when the 26th concession round is postponed: the search areas are expanded, but this is done in the TFO treatment. And since this is such a serious question, that discussion and decision should also go to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5873	The government will develop, not liquidate the activity on Norwegian pedestal, and believes it is very important also in the continuation, not least with the backstop that is now taking place in Ukraine, and Europe’s ability to break free from Russian gas. The aim of the search policy is precisely to make new findings, which are necessary to ensure a level playing field and the highest possible level of value creation, of course. At the same time, it is an important reminder that it will contribute to European energy security. Area allocation is an important contribution to maintaining exploration activity in the future, as I said. In order to obtain an appropriate exploration of both mature and immature areas, two similar concession rounds have been used in the last two decades: allocation in predefined areas and numbered rounds. Today, the TFO rounds comprise most of the open available exploration area on the Norwegian continental shelf and are actually the carrier of the petroleum policy. It's important that we continue with that as a starting point. Then there are disagreements about the future and the significance of Norwegian pedestal. There's the familiar dividing lines in Stortinget. However, I would like to stress that it is the management plans and the frameworks of the management plans and the open areas that at all times provide the basis for how to manage the exploration activity, and it is natural that one continues to do so. We have a very good administrative tradition in the case of Norwegian pedestal, just through solid work related to the management plans. As regards the area currently covered by the TFO, the management plan adopted in 2020 forms the basis for that. So just a few brief comments on the proposal No. 1 and 2. In the 26th round, we're dealing with the ordinary process right there. We have an agreement with SV that we relate to, completely curated in 2022, if not to start the 26th concession round. We are now working with regular TFO rounds. So to this with the Barents Sea, where there are exciting prospects in several areas, and perhaps especially within the gas. But I'm a little surprised that the Right, when they're out of government offices, chooses to short-term investigation work that's already there. What is that really right meaning? If they believe that we are already going to say in Stortinget that pipes are to be built from the Barents Sea to Europe, they should say it very clearly, because it can undermine many of the other exciting opportunities that are in the Barents Sea associated with the development of blue hydrogen and the development of Melkøya, etc. One has to take the investigations that are coming, and see if there are any actors in the Barents Sea who are willing to pay for that pipe. Then I think the right side has a somewhat strange position in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5888	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5893	I have a simple question. When can Norwegian business expect 26th concession rounds to be brightened?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5898	We now have the regular TFO rounds in work. We've sent them to the hearing and have what's right now. It is the support bar of Norwegian petroleum policy. With regard to the 26th concession round, we haven't taken a stand on it, so we have to get back to Stortinget with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5903	I think it's very unfortunate that you can't create that predictability. That is why the proposal included that it should be by 2023. It is regrettable that the government will still keep an opening up to SV to postpone the 26th concession round one more year. But then to the situation that has arisen in Europe, and Norway’s role in European energy security. We're now delivering as much gas as we can, and we both know that it's going to go down with gas from Norway if we can't get new ones. In this respect, I believe that to the extent that we have a common objective and agree that new findings should be made to achieve it, but can the Council of State say something about how the government is now working to secure or increase gas supplies to Europe in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5910	Given the current situation, it is the companies that are initially responsible for production and production capacity and to exploit it. We have been very positive about proposals and enquiries coming to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, for example. making strategic changes to a manufacturing authorisation, injecting less gas and absorbing more gas into the pipe. We believe that this is an advantage. We are also in a positive position to avoid downtimes – at a time when Europe is building up its gas stocks – and we believe that this is important. I assume that the representative of Halleland fully agrees with the undersigned – that we must not do this at the expense of safety, and we must ensure that we have a good overall use of resources for Norwegian pedestal. There will be allocation of new search area which is the main track for the development of Norwegian pedestal. We have now launched the TFO 2022 and believe that it is a good basis and a continuation of the support beam in Norwegian petroleum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5915	Thanks for the answer. I have a little follow-up question in the end. Does the Council of State think that the TFO round as a whole can replace the numbered rounds of the concession system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5920	We have normally had two concession awards and two relationships related to it – TFO and the numbered rounds. Now we focus on TFO 2022. We believe that this is an important call that is coming, and that it can contain exciting exploration areas that can reveal new findings and provide the basis for new investments on Norwegian soil and increased activity in the coming years, even if the lead times for this type of expansion are long. Then we decide how to deal with the numbered rounds when the time is right for it, and we will certainly come back to that in new debates. I am a little surprised that the representative of the Progress Party is so eager to get the numbered rounds, as they actually waited quite a long time after they took up the government offices, starting the numbered rounds. The numbered rounds are part of the possibilities of petroleum policy and are an absolute possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5925	In today's issue of the class struggle newspaper, we can read that Equinor is taking the goal of becoming the last fossil energy company in the world. Is that a goal shared by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5930	Now it is the Minister of Industry who is responsible for Equinor, so I think I should leave the strategic assessments to the Minister of Industry, which constitute the formal basis of ownership from the State. The fact that we're going to have a long activity on Norwegian soil, I think it's right, and I think there's also new opportunities, not least through blue hydrogen -- catching CO 2 and helping the hydrogen market, when it comes to Europe and Norway, can be stable, without using badly sought-after, renewable and high-processed green electrons to produce hydrogen. I think there are many possibilities for developing Norwegian sockets, including in the perspective of meeting our climate commitments. That is why we say very clearly that we want to develop and not liquidate the activity on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5938	Then I can assure the Council of State that the Minister of Industry will receive that question from the undersigned. Then I'm going to ask the Council of State a question about the current TFO hearing round 2022. As I said in my post, some of the proposed blocks from the government lie within the actual ice edge, and I don't think we need to be fortune-tellers, neither the Council of State nor I, in order to establish that there will be quite strong protests against the announcement of those blocks. My question, then, is whether the Council of State will take account of the environmental advice and warnings that will come up against the announcement of the blocks within the actual ice zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5944	I will come back to that once we have evaluated all the hearing opinions. I would like to stress that it is through the management plans Stortinget laying out the framework for which of the open areas on the Norwegian base should be available for the concession rounds, and I believe that this is a good basis. It's really where the broad, thorough assessments are made. We have a good tradition of sending TFO when that process starts, consulting and evaluating the recordings that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5949	The Hurdal platform states that before new TFO calls are to be considered more thoroughly, the climate and environment considerations are to be considered, but the call now proposed states in the letter of consultation that environmental and climate considerations are to be investigated and brought back to a later call for proposals. Then I would like to ask the Council of State what scientific evidence he has to have so much time on the climate and the environment that he will wait for future calls to make a more thorough assessment of environmental and climate considerations, and why this is not done at this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5954	Firstly, it should be well known to the representative Haltbrecken that the climate assessments are carried out in relation to the PUD work and the individual project. We don't know in the TFO rounds what concrete climate effects it has. We don't know which findings are detected. We don't know which expansion solution is chosen. That's what's going on around it, and we've made it very clear that we're making assessments in that field. As regards the environment and the overall assessments, it is done primarily through the management plan and the basis there, and this is also where the Stortinget agrees whether or not to hold a concession round in the long term. I think that's a very good tool. The management plans have made it possible for us to develop the socket in a good way. Co-existence has been safeguarded, and every time these management plans are rolled, there are also quite considerable discussions about impacts on coexistence, the environment, nature, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5959	Europe needs more gas now, but we probably have a very different view of how long there will be a need for gas in Europe and, to some extent, the rest of the world, because emissions will have to go down. We used to have a discussion about blue hydrogen and about natural gas. There may be arguments that natural gas has an element of climate change and is part of the climate debate, but for oil there is no such justification for picking up more or establishing new fields. Then my question becomes: will the Council of State make a clearer distinction in the policy between the search for natural gas and the search for oil, especially when evaluating the PUD?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5964	We haven't made those assessments. I also don't think it's natural that we make those assessments as they are now. We are committed to helping decarbonise energy use. Whether it's in oil use or it's in gas, it's important that we manage to decarbonize energy use in a good way. I think the representative has a point in terms of blue hydrogen. If this can be done in a satisfactory way, it will update the need for gas but then in another form that does not have emissions. I believe that at the time when alternatives to oil may exist – considering both the petrochemical industry, transport use, lubrication, etc. – the possibilities will, of course, appear there, but there are no such solutions right now that are capable of caring for what is needed. But I'm, like the representative Elvesuen, very concerned that we're able to get successful decarbonisations of the total energy use.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5969	The difference is that as far as oil is concerned, more than enough has already been found today for the needs that the world has to face in the future, and especially in view of the reductions we have to make and how quickly it will come. I really believe that there are no environmental arguments you can use to pick up more, find more or start producing more oil. My question remains: is there not now a need to make a clearer distinction between the policy pursued against natural gas, which can be directed towards blue hydrogen, and the policy towards oil, which there is no need for an international or environmental need for us to continue? There is a policy that Norway is in a financial situation to be able to change by going ahead and ending.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5974	I'm just going to repeat my answer. The government has not made those assessments and does not think it is natural that we make these assessments now. It will also be very much up to those who look and find occurrences – to assess whether it is profitable, whether it is market, etc. As I said, we have to comply with the obligations we have to calculate the climate impacts of the various projects that are authorised on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5979	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5989	First, I want to clarify to the Council of State what I said earlier, that the Right wants to assess a pipeline between the Barents Sea and the North Sea. But we have a situation where we have an energy crisis that we haven't seen our husband do. All our allies are asking us to be a safe, stable and growing gas supplier in the coming years. Then we have to be able to assess that kind of thing quite quickly, be clear to our allies and be able to trust. I would also like to sum up the debate we have on gas here. I feel that the government is a hostage of Red and SV's position in this matter, which wants to reduce Norwegian gas. It really reminds me of the Hamsun novel Pan, where Lieutenant Glahn lives in a hunting cabin in Northernland and has a very strong, intense inner soul life and strong feelings, and to express those feelings he shoots himself in the foot. He comes down to the civilization of the village and thinks this is going to make a big impression. He'll be met with shoulder straps. This is also true of gas exports. Limiting our gas exports makes the world face it with a shoulder pull. If nothing else, you'll see that it actually makes us get worse in terms of cutting climate emissions. It's really not in our interest as well. So my call to the government is to get rid of Red and SV exactly in the gas policy and get over to the right side. We can have a policy where we are looking for and extracting much more gas, with better infrastructure, and do so in terms of both Norwegian jobs and contributing to our allies. It is good in a climate perspective, and it is good in a security policy perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e5998	Had it even been so well that the sitting government was a hostage of SV and Red's responsible oil policy, it would probably have been better. I just want to drill a little bit more into it as we had a line exchange with the council here instead. Then I want to quote what is on the Hurdal platform. The chapter on oil policy and the TFO rounds states: ‘Climate and environment shall be considered more comprehensively in the TFO rounds.’ I received a response from the Council of State saying that this is something that relates to the management plans for our sea areas. Now it's probably not to expect us to have a new management plan before 2024, and we might have both one, two, and maybe three TFO rounds before that time. I hope that the Council of State will use the opportunity to clarify whether he has now cancelled what is on the Hurdal platform, and that these are things to be assessed in the management plan, or whether it will actually be assessed in the TFO rounds. I would also like a more comprehensive response from the Council of State on how the government believes they have such a good time in the climate and the environment that they can only postpone these assessments, as they said last autumn was important to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6013	I didn't really intend to take the floor in the debate, but when the Right Representative refers to my favorite believer of Hamsun, it's hard to let go. There's a sentence that goes like this: "Had my compass wronged me just away to the place I wanted to escape?" I think that is a bit striking, because we are returning to the positions we have had all along, including in the debate on Norwegian oil and gas. When the right-hand side uses the war in Ukraine as an opportunity to extract more oil and gas, it's just another argument for the same thing they've meant all along. It also affects the left side, we believe the same thing we have meant all along. That's why I wasn't going to take the floor, but Red was used as a ghost that haunts the government's policy. I think the government is pursuing an entirely independent policy. I wish Red had more influence on the government's oil and gas policy, but unfortunately we do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6023	I can underline what the representative said right now. Red is no ghost in government policy. We often disagree. I don't think of Red as a ghost either – on the contrary. I just want to comment on some things that were taken up. To the representative Haltbrecken: We relate to what has been adopted in Stortinget, and I assume that the Stortinget is comfortable with that also in terms of the development of the petroleum activity on the Norwegian base. So to the representative Thorheim, who says we limit Norwegian gas exports: that's not the case. We nod yes and give permission if strategic assessments are made to possibly now increase gas exports in a crisis time for Europe. I would also like to stress that it is not the case that the world is pulling its shoulders over the activity or Norwegian oil and gas policy. They are very concerned that we can contribute in the long term to the activity on Norwegian soil to ensure the very security of energy in Europe. That's the government's policy. We're going to answer that positive. I just think it's important that we're clear about it, that there are no misunderstandings from the Great Britain's pulpit about what we're doing to further activity, or how the outside world actually looks at us in a very laborious and demanding situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6034	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6052	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6059	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation in this matter. The proposal for a representative to make energy saving available to all and the proposal for a representative on energy saving measures and more energy entering the power market deals with some of the same issues, so the Committee decided to examine the two proposals for representatives together. A total of 24 proposals have been put forward in the vote, one of which is supported by the majority of the Committee. An overall committee stresses that both Norway and the rest of the world must continue to replace fossil energy with renewable energy in order to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. In order to succeed, sufficient access to renewable energy is central. The development of new energy production may have undesirable consequences and therefore energy efficiency improvement is important in all sectors, including the construction sector. The Committee therefore endorses the objective of reducing the use of energy in buildings by 10 TWh by 2030. The Committee points out that in February the Government appointed an Energy Commission to identify energy needs and propose increased energy production with the aim of maintaining over-production of power in Norway, and that Norwegian industry and Norwegian electricity customers will continue to have ample access to renewable energy. Energy efficiency improvement is an important part of the Commission’s mandate. The Commission shall assess the potential for energy efficiency improvement in different sectors, the role it can play in the long-term development of the consumption side, and the Commission shall further assess the means to trigger the potential for energy efficiency improvement. Similarly, they shall assess the need for better coordination of existing instruments and the need to establish new ones. The Committee's recommendation, which calls on the Government to remove regulatory barriers preventing local energy production, local energy storage and the placing on the market of energy between buildings, is promoted by a majority consisting of the Green Party, SV, the Progress Party, Red Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right. When this occurred in the Committee, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party were uncertain as to the specific impact of the point concerning the placing on the market of energy. I'll get more into this in a later article. But both the Central Party and the Labour Party are behind the proposal for a decision because we trust that the government will regulate this in an appropriate way, and consider how this can best be done to ensure that the intention of the decision is respected. So we support the majority's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6076	Solar power is an untapped potential in Norway, despite the fact that solar energy and battery technology have had a driving development beyond the last decade. Today we can capture solar energy in overcast days. Solar storage is not a major challenge today, because battery capacity and quality have been significantly improved. Solar energy is today a good addition to energy supply in private housing, barges and to industry. Increased power prices have also seen the focus on solar power and its potential. We have today a government that is scaling up the solar effort. This government believes it is important that everyone should be able to participate in the climate change change and has therefore proposed an increase of 100 million. kr through Enova, which municipalities, among others. may apply for support for energy measures in municipal housing. The government is also busy with low-income households being able to energy upgrade their dwellings, and therefore has proposals for support schemes through the House Bank for low-income families. In addition, Enova launched a number of new measures in February, including: increase support for solar panels, support for smart power management, smart hot water tank and mapping support for shelling and Busameige. Enova also supports solar cells with over NOK 20 000 to a maximum of NOK 47 500, which helps to make investment in solar photovoltaics more profitable for housing. The government is working on several measures that have proposals to reduce energy use by at least 10 kWh in 2030. The plan must be presented in connection with the 2023 state budget. Solar power is an important step towards achieving our climate goals of cutting 55 pst. of our emissions by 2030. As the representative of Mykjåland pointed out, the Labour Party enters the plural setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6091	Energy efficiency is one of the most important measures we can take to cut greenhouse gas emissions, save nature for unnecessary interventions and also provide permanent protection against high electricity prices. In this country, we have long had a goal of freeing 10 TWh from our buildings. There is still no action plan on how to achieve this, but it is promised that it will be related to the State budget for 2023, and we are looking forward to that action plan. In the meantime, figures show that we can further increase the energy release in the construction sector, up to 13 TWh. SV also wants to use that potential, to get rid of those terrrawatt hours, but we will be careful to oblige the government now to include the 13 TWhs of spring in the action plan to be created. We fear that this action plan may be delayed and that the important work on energy efficiency will be delayed. Therefore, the government should look at: If it is possible to get it into that plan – fine, bring it! If that's not possible, you have to get back to Stortinget with a plan that also gives 13 TWh. I almost a year ago had the joy of standing on a housing strike here in Oslo, which had solar cells, together with representatives from the Workers' Party, the current climate and environment minister Espen Barth Eide and the representative Ole André Myhrvold from the Center Party. We then requested a tax exemption for living quarters and joint stores that have solar cells on their roof. If you have lost your house and have solar cells, you will not be charged electricity rent for the use of that solar power. If you live in a block, unfortunately you have to pay electricity and rent a network today, which means that the solar photovoltaic bet will be less profitable for housing companies and joint ventures. One year after we put pressure on the previous government to implement a tax exemption also for people living in blocks, nothing has yet happened. I therefore hope that the Council of State in its contribution can say something about when people in blocks and housing laws can also get an exemption from the electricity charge and online rental from their solar power. I'll bring it up to you the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6104	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6109	Today, we are debating a number of more and less good proposals to improve energy efficiency and ensure easy access to energy in buildings. The only thing we have managed to agree on is to remove these bureaucratic barriers that prevent local energy production, local energy storage and the placing on the market of energy between buildings. That's something. It's a step in the right direction. But it doesn't solve all the other challenges we're actually facing if we're going to achieve the goals that all of us seem to agree on. It is the objective of saving 10 TWh through energy efficiency improvement, as decided by the Stortinget in 2017, and a number of other similar objectives that seem to be a touching consensus. This also has a social dimension, which is often lost in the decisions taken here. When electricity prices are as high as they have been and continue to be, no one can afford to invest in post-insulation, to replace windows, to install heat pumps or to start investing in local solar power generation. It is swine-feasted – if it is allowed to say – and we cannot leave energy policy to market forces in this way, because it creates injustice. It doesn't give us the desired goal, because there are a number of people who can't afford to energy efficiency. I must also make a explanation of vote, which I have feared a little more today. Red does not support proposal No. Two, from the left. Here politicians tend to say that by an incurrency you have things like that. I have made a mistake by supporting this proposal in the vote because it also contains some wording about temporary posts that Red of course is not for setting up in the municipalities, because we are working towards temporaryity. I hope that the impression is corrected. So we do not support proposal No. 2, but promoting the proposal Red has, together with the Left and the proposals Red has, together with the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6120	The representative, Sofie Marhaug, has promoted the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6125	I would like to thank the Committee for the consideration of the draft representative on energy saving and more energy into the power market, which I also agree with. Although there is not too much room for majority voting now, one important decision is to continue the systematic work of removing barriers that exist there, in order to increase solar energy in Norway as well. In terms of energy saving, this is about getting a systematic policy to achieve the goal of saving 10 TWh by 2030 – the goal that came into place in due course through a landfill treatment, well also a Document 8 proposal, and was confirmed in the Energy Communication when it was addressed in 2016. In the case of energy saving, there are two objectives involved. It's getting energy efficiency so that we release energy, i.e. the 10 TWhs, while it's important to also have measures that allow people with poor advice to have an opportunity to reduce their own consumption and thus gain more control over their own economy. I hope, although there are many of these proposals that do not now receive a majority, that this is still included in the treatment that the government is going to undergo when we look at measures to achieve 10 TWh. Because here's a lot of suggestions, including what Red now said, that you help counties and municipalities to have energy advisors for individuals and businesses. It is an important measure. In terms of compulsory energy monitoring of public buildings, and stepping up efforts for energy measures in municipal housing – there have also been increases in appropriations – and the proposals for increasing the level of competence in the field of energy saving in the construction industry and for following up the EU's Building Energy Directive and clearer energy requirements in the case of rehabilitation are all proposals that I hope the government can look into in its further work. As I mentioned, it's good that we get a majority to look at regulations. But I also hope that you go into proposal No. 1, which is about amending the Law on Planning and Building so that municipalities can demand solar energy under the Law on Planning and Building. This is done in Länder in Germany. It's an instrument that we could also have. I'll bring up proposal No. Twenty-three from the left. We should make a slight change to that proposal, as the EEAS has pointed out. That's what the proposal sounds like. ‘The government is asking for proposals to provide Statnett with funds to ensure a lower level of network rental in the future than planned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6141	The representative, Mr Elvestuen, then raised proposal No. 23 and reference to the change to be made for it to become correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6146	The right believes that it is very important to facilitate energy efficiency. The most environmentally friendly energy is the one that's not being used. We also have a challenge to keep a surplus of power, and the more we can actually save energy, the less new power we have to expand, which will always involve an environmental intervention. The total energy use in buildings is about 84 TWh. In recent years, new buildings have been exacerbated, with energy requirements there, but the great potential lies in the building mass they already have. At the same time, there are important considerations to take, so that the State does not support actions that would in any case have been implemented. At the same time, since I have no comment on the proposal itself, I want to share a reflection after I have been out talking to people and businesses about energy saving and the important work we do from Stortinget. The most important work is actually the companies and the individual consumer doing themselves, and I have to say that I am touched when I see the will to do really even more than what is required. When companies are going to build a new building, you think much longer than what is really the current requirement, and so are many consumers, who are concerned with the environment and climate and extend even further, whether it pays or not – so a tribute to the will that is out there. So I would say, as the representative of Elvestuen, that I expect the Energy Commission to take note of the discussions and reflections that the Committee has made in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6158	Today, there is a majority for one in 23 proposals to save as much as 13 TWh of electricity in Norway, but one proposal is important enough. So the government is asking the government to clean up a completely out-of-date legislation like this. prevents the use of the solar energy that shines on their roofs. It's been six years since the Stortinget first asked the government to clean up, so that settlements were not penalised for investing in solar cells, and two governments – first a blue and now, for the time being, a red and green – have managed to squander measures equivalent to power enough to charge 500,000 electric cars by not stimulating the use of solar cells on the roof, and only for housing blocks. It is difficult to understand that kind of political priority. Today's government is concerned that it is now common people's turn, and then at least it is very important that today's government actually implements this decision without squabbling as much as previous governments have sold. At the same time, the Workers' Party and the Senterpartiet vote down a drum with other good suggestions that could together have saved energy similar to that produced by all Norwegian wind turbines. The government has not submitted a proposal that saves this flow in an alternative way. Meanwhile, people are struggling with sky-high power bills, and they are impatient to grab hold. Energy saving is the easiest, it's the cheapest, it's the fastest thing to do to help people and businesses move on in green shifts and climate jobs – which have become even more acute due to the disaster in Ukraine. Enova's arrangements are too bad, people haven't heard of them, they don't reach out to those who need it the most, and many effective measures don't get any support at all. If this time the government takes up what the Storting decides, we'll be able to help people cut the electricity bills and take advantage of the enormous potential of solar power and other alternative energy in Norwegian housing blocks. It will mean less stress on the mains power grid, smarter homes, less natural fury – very good. So we need to speed up energy saving, and we need to speed up policy. People all over the country are waiting for this to happen. We in Stortinget must expect the government to deliver now, and the Council of State confirms that it will be delivered quickly on this decision. And with this, I recommend the proposals of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6173	I can assure you that the government will follow up what we have agreed with SV on, and that is to promote a plan for how to save at least 10 TWh in energy use by 2030. Of course, it's firm. Energy saving is important. I think it was SV that, when we dealt with the previous energy message in 2016, a majority had to set a clear target of 10 terawat hours. It may not have been done all the world after, but we're at least on the go. I just want to stress that it is quite demanding to take action, because there are a lot of individuals around with different situations that need to be involved in understanding – let's say – their own decisions in order to achieve that savings system. We're going to evaluate all the different possibilities that lie in achieving such a goal, and come back to the Storting with it, because it's very important that we succeed with it. I would also just like to address this with barriers to local energy production, which are important. That is why we also suggested, when we presented the supplementary communication to the Energy Communication, that we would conduct a study to bring up all the barriers that are now preventing local energy production. The aim of promoting such a barrier study is, of course, to remove the inappropriate measures. To vote in favour of the proposal that has now been put forward is not a problem; it is really just a follow-up to what is in the supplementary communication. That the Storting is concerned about it, I think I'm good. There are more things than sun that are interesting in that context. Many microwind-related possibilities are also emerging, which can be exciting to assess in this context. I think the situation we're in, with high power prices, also creates many different new technological solutions for how to produce energy or save energy, which is important for us to be able to exploit and introduce into the market and towards people who can make investment decisions in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6189	I would like to ask the Council of State if he will ensure that there is a continuation in the work of giving people living in housing camps and communities – and then the possibility of having solar cells on their roofs – exemption from the electricity charge and grid rental by using this solar current, in line with what people in the terraced houses and villas get.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6194	We are now going to carry out this barrier study and, of course, propose measures quickly after it has been completed, just to achieve more local solar production even in housing camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6199	I hope that the bill can come before that study, and that it can be done independently of it, and that this is something that can come at the latest in connection with the revised – no, sorry – state budget for 2023 Revised will come in a few days, so it might have been getting water over the head. I hope the Council of State can answer that he will look at this, regardless of the investigation that Stortinget now agrees to carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6206	I think it's important that we carry out an overall review of the different barriers that lie, and that we actually draw the conclusion based on it. But I notice what the Haltbrecken says, and I'm going to consider that question in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6211	The proposal we have debated today is based on up-to-date studies on how much it is reasonably good to save in Norwegian construction and related structures. The answer is about 13 TWh. The working party has a previous agreement with SV to try to save 10 TWh. It has not been so fast, but we are pleased to hear that the Council of State confirms that the work will be accelerated. The question is: Will the government take in new information and increase the efficiency target to 13 TWh, possibly even more, if new knowledge so warrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6218	I disagree that things aren't going fast. We're dealing with the timeline and the other thing we've agreed with SV about. I think it's wise to have thoughtful solutions for this, and that one does not rely on many assumed good suggestions that are not necessarily that. So we're working purposefully just to put forward a plan that says we're going to have at least 10 TWh as the basis for that. It also satisfies by far on the way question number two. We're also looking at the possibility of increasing it beyond 10 TWh, but we're dealing with what we've agreed with SV, and we're going back to Stortinget with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6229	I thank you for your answer. I am a little surprised that the Council of State is so pleased with the progress of this work. So it's been six years since the Stortinget made its last decision, and a very long time since the Oil and Energy Department assumed an energy saving potential of about 15 TWh. Now, the most important thing is that the Council of State confirms that this is now going to go quickly, and hopefully faster than it has now. That's the question: can the Council of States guarantee that it will take much less than the six years it has now taken, to actually implement the measures to save at least 10 TWh, and also at least 13 TWh?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6239	I'm dealing with at least 10 TWh, which the Stortinget has decided. I can guarantee that it will go faster than six years. We're already on it. We have already allocated more money for an additional measure, including: in relation to municipal housing. We also follow up on what Stortinget has said, and from 2023 we will leave parts of this responsibility to the House Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6244	There are issues of energy saving, but there are also proposals here on more production, especially of solar energy. Governments say they want to look at removing barriers to solar energy, regulatory barriers, etc. But the potential for solar energy in Norway is really great. You can get 8-10 TWh by 2030. So my question is: will the Council also look at more offensive action to achieve a target of e.g. 8 TWh, and then consider suggestions such as: Germany, where demands can be made, and it is state states that demand to have solar cells on public buildings, on commercial buildings, etc.? Will the Council of State also be able to work for solar cells based on a clear objective of how many terawat hours we need to get in before 2030, and preferably with 8 TWh as a minimum?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6252	I think local energy production is incredibly exciting, and it has some qualities in it, initially and apparently. Solar energy is going to be very attractive – it's already attractive. I think there's a lot of exciting thinking about what's in Germany, that one imposes this on new buildings, for example. construction, but it must also be incorporated into the rest of the structure of the Norwegian power system. So doing that barrier study and then making conclusions about what one wants to contribute to, or what one has to do with changes, I think it's very wise. Because it could also be that if one just facilitates local energy production without seeing the barriers and doing anything with them, it might work against its purpose altogether. It is important that we get that barrier study in place, and then draw conclusions after that. But I think local energy production, especially solar, is very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6257	The last recorded speaker is Gro-Anita Mykjåland. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6263	I'm sorry – I got a little surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6268	The president's sorry. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6275	I was simply wondering if the Council of State was afraid he would get a line from Mykjåland now. With regard to the budget agreement between the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV, it has been said several times here that an agreement has been reached that we should reduce the energy consumption in construction by at least 10 TWh by 2030. I am very pleased that the committee is concentrating on this now, because we had this goal, as several representatives have said, for many, many years. So it's not for the Storting to set more goals. It's about getting a government that actually delivers on the goals that Stortinget has set, and I'm glad we can do it now. Local power generation and local storage will be positive for the power grid if it contributes to reducing transmission needs. We know that there are large investments that will enter the power grid in the next few years, and local storage is consistently positive so it can lead to greater flexibility. But when it comes to the turnover of energy between barley, there are some different things that we have to look after and evaluate, and that we want to point to now. It is in Norway that the costs of the network companies are to be recovered, and if some customers receive lower network rentals, the other customers in the power grid have to pay more. This may be the case quickly if the projects in question do not contribute to reducing the costs of the network company. Then such an approach can make the differences increase, that those who have the opportunity to make large investments, for example. in a micro-network, lower costs may be incurred, while those remaining on the network will be subject to increased costs. It's simply because there will then be fewer contributions to this fissure layer, and it thinks the center party will be unfortunate. Then it is possible in the future that new economic areas or residential areas will be developed, where one reduces the total cost. There are already some good examples of that in the country. It's being tested out, and it's very good. An additional aspect of the turnover of energy between buildings in addition to the network perspective is that a new market for the purchase and sale of energy is set up alongside the end-user companies, and this is something I hope the government will look into before any changes are made. That's why I think this debate has pointed out that there are many different elements, and having a barrier study that shows what we should actually be dealing with, so that we don't have any unfortunate consequences, I'm very happy that the Council of State is taking seriously. There has been no sign of anyone else, and as the rapporteur I want to thank for the debate, and then I really look forward to starting work on energy efficiency improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6290	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6307	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6314	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation. The public sector purchases goods and services for nearly 600 billion. kr per year. Therefore, the way in which the public benefits the purchasing power is saying is important. The National Audit Office has found in this investigation that the procurement practices of public contractors are not good enough. He does not contribute much to minimising environmental taxes and providing climate-friendly solutions. Many public contractors lack a holistic approach to climate and environmental protection in procurement. The National Audit Office considers it critical that, through the combined use of drugs, governance does not ensure that procurement practices by public contractors are sufficiently conducive to minimising environmental taxes and promoting climate-friendly solutions. When the Liaison Committee last manages the law on public procurement, the Committee stresses that, in order to be closed down with efficient resource use, the work on public procurement had to be primarily subject to sound governance, planning and follow-up. The Committee stressed that work had to be organised in a first-rate manner. I'm concerned about the lack of a holistic approach to procurement in the administration. It applies both to the environment and to other aspects of public procurement. The National Audit Board recommends that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries undertake to ensure that the Directorate of Administration and Financial Management, DFOE, secures a broad anchoring of the green leverage for Purchasing Norway and that a data base is developed that provides adequate statistics and governance information on the scope, costs and impact of green public procurement. The National Audit Service also recommends that the DFØ make guidance material more user-friendly and familiar to purchasers in the public sector, and that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and the Ministry of Climate and Environment, in consultation with the DFØ, consider establishing centrally standardised minimum requirements on the priority areas of the Action Plan to ensure that public clients benefit from market power in a unified way. The Committee was consulted by the Riksrevisionen. The majority also show that the trot for centralisation must establish minimum standardised requirements in light of the fact that the law on public procurement creates more care. Purchasing practices shall address both the environment, human rights and other societal concerns in order to contribute to important objectives such as sustainability, good pay and working conditions, the use of apprentices, innovation and local ringing. The National Audit Office has not been able to provide a sound basis for its assessment in this report. The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Climate and Environment has pointed out that standardised minimum requirements could be suitable for purchasing categories where markets are mature, where public contractors need to move in the same direction in order to achieve climate and environmental objectives. The majority of the Committee points out that the contracting entities have chosen to organise differently, with varying arrangements for carrying out procurement processes. Developments in public procurement legislation have met more and more detailed requirements for both contractors and providers. Competence varies, both in terms of the use and enforcement of the legislation and its implications for other regulatory considerations. The majority would point out that measures taken by the Ministry to follow up the recommendations of the Riksrevision also take account of these different provisions. The follow-up must provide room for local adaptations to environmental considerations and for holistic assessments of what is the most climate-friendly solution for individual purchases. At this point, the minority has a different view. I'm assuming they're doing something for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6335	The money's fine. It's a familiar expression that I think most people know about, and that money gives power and the ability to change, is something we all know. Therefore, it means incredibly much how the public uses the Community’s public procurement funds. The public sector is a huge purchaser of goods and services. It is purchased for about 600 billion. kr annually, and that is a huge sum. When we demand the use of these funds, we use the state's financial power to change society. Green public acquisitions are therefore clearly an important tool in climate policy. The Labour Party is behind the Riksrevision's findings and criticisms, but we want to underline two aspects. Firstly, we believe that standardisation simplifies and streamlines acquisitions for purchasers and suppliers, making it easier and cheaper to impose environmental requirements. However, standardisation should not, of course, hinder local action. Secondly, it is important to stress that current legislation provides for the possibility of setting environmental requirements, including: on environmental management. It is important that these opportunities also become known among the purchasers. There aren't many years until 2030, which is a milestone on the road to the low-emission society we're going to be in by 2050. We have a long way to go, and we need to be willing to change the rules and practices for public acquisitions so that they support important goals such as sustainability. They must focus more on climate and environmental considerations. The government says it will weigh climate and environmental considerations with a minimum of 30 pst. in government acquisitions and higher where applicable. That's good. It is important that we use the opportunity we have to achieve climate objectives by means of green public acquisitions. For the money comes, but we're in this room that's over the public money issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6350	Thanks to the case rapporteur, whom I experience has done a very thorough job here, not least by looking at the different things that affect public procurement. There are many considerations to be taken and it may be demanding. In any case, the National Auditor's opinion states that more can be done, and I particularly notice their advice to anchor this green leverage throughout the organisation, i.e. at all stages and anywhere. It's demanding, but it's perhaps the most obvious challenge you can address to make sure it's that way. So I want to say that this is fresher -- it might be wrong to call it that, but it's not that far away, because the world is changing very much all the time when it comes to good solutions. I remember that as rapporteur, I was fighting through a new artificial grass track at home in Grimstad, and one of the big arguments was that now there was a great measure that we could recycle rubber as rubber cullet in the artificial grass tracks. There is nothing but a big problem today. The world is changing, and it's changing rapidly. Not least when it comes to the technological contributions to new green solutions, it happens quickly, and we do know that much has happened from the Riksrevision wrote this report until today. There is a different focus in the departments, and there is a total of a different focus in the public sector, which will build skills, which will make the good choices, and which will balance it with the other requirements to be behind when making public procurement. The important thing for the Department and the Council of State is that one facilitates, and perhaps removes obstacles, which we sometimes experience meeting with old counting edges and old advice that was well intended. There is not much more to say, because the rapporteur has gone through it carefully. However, I would like to stress that although I point out that a lot has happened since then, the Riksrevision report is a necessary and good reminder that we must never let go of thinking in the future regarding the conversion and purchases that underpin the green shift that we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6365	As my co-representatives also point out, this is an area where much needs to be done if we are to be able to achieve the rather ambitious goals we have set for ourselves in this Chamber. It is also worth using both this opportunity and every opportunity to remind us that the time we have to solve the climate challenges is disappearing small. When it comes to just public acquisitions, it is also right, as my co-representatives have pointed out, that a number of demands are made. There are a number of instructions from both this room and the departments on how to exploit that system, precisely because there is so much power in the purchasing system as public acquisitions are. What this hall has also said is that to achieve our climate goals, this area is one of the most important things we can do. That is why I also believe it is particularly important that we be able to use public acquisitions precisely to help achieve the objectives. When we make as many demands in as many parts of our society as so many of us know about the body, it's very clear that then the public has to go ahead. I also hope this report can be a small source for all of us to say that there is much more to be done here. I would also like to point out that it should be relevant to be able to have environmental certification requirements for suppliers, to have some minimum standards, precisely because it will help make it easier to make right, good and green choices and also make sure that we get the pace up. What's clear is that the goals we've set have not been followed up. I would also just like to highlight briefly that one thing I think is a little bit of awareness-raising and a little bit of surprise is that in areas where we know that technology has come very far, where there are good alternatives that actually satisfy environmental requirements, it is not fully exploited today. A typical example of this is an engine vehicle. There is no reason today that you can't buy an electric car in very many ways compared to other types of vehicle. There is also a large space for action in today’s legislation that is not sufficiently exploited. I also want to challenge the Council of States really already in the Chamber today to say something about how he actually thinks this can be carried on, because it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6378	The National Audit Office’s study has shown that the procurement practices of contracting authorities do not contribute sufficiently to minimising the environmental impact and promoting climate-friendly solutions. My view is that the report from the National Audit Office is exceptionally good and makes a good knowledge base even better, and it is important for our further work to strengthen climate and environmental considerations in public acquisitions. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for that and for constructive input. This government has great ambitions for climate and environmental policies, and this, of course, also applies in the area of public acquisitions. In our government platform, we have said that we should change the public procurement legislation to give greater support to important goals such as sustainability, and we have also said that climate and environmental considerations should be weighted by 30 pst. and higher where applicable. I hope we can get this out at the hearing if not too long. The Hurdal Platform’s objectives on climate and environment in conjunction with the recommendations of the National Audit Office are now a solid basis for our further work to increase the share of green acquisitions. One important message from me here today is that I take the report from the Riksrevision in the greatest seriousness. I will ensure that the recommendations of the report are followed up in the further work of the department and departments. So I'd like to comment on three things separately. Firstly, the follow-up work on the recommendations of the Riksrevision is already in progress. DFØ works with a green leverage for Purchasing Norway, which is related to the point of better guidance for green acquisitions. Furthermore, the departments work with better coordination, and we are now in the final phase of a project to contribute to better statistics and governance information on green acquisitions. Secondly, the National Audit Office's investigations are mainly based on analysis of procurement documents from 2018 and 2019, and I will promise that figures from the DFØ show that there has been a positive development after the National Audit Office's investigation. It doesn't mean in any way that we're in the goal, but it's also nice to enjoy that progress is taking place. Then we're all concerned that progress is going to go even faster, and of being even more ambitious. One example I would like to draw up is that DFØ has developed a tool that measures which vehicles are actually acquired by municipalities and state businesses. These figures are published on the DFØ website and show positive developments, and an increasing number of contracting authorities have high ambition requirements in purchasing climate-friendly vehicles for their operations. This shows that efforts so far have had some effect, and it rather provides an incentive to do even more in the future to achieve the goal of even more green acquisitions. Thirdly, I would like to refer to the Riksrevision's recommendation to consider developing centrally established, standardised minimum requirements in some areas. I have also noticed that there is an commitment to this in the attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee. As mentioned in the letter to the Committee of 17 December 2021 from the Minister for Climate and Environment and myself, this is primarily relevant in mature markets and where contracting authorities need to move in the same direction in order to achieve climate and environmental objectives. An additional point here is to follow up on the work done at European level. We already see that in several new legislation, the European Commission is proposing provisions relating to climate and environmental requirements in public procurement. The National Audit Office’s survey highlights several factors that will be central to the government’s further work towards increasing the share of green public procurement and more stringent environmental requirements in public procurement. We have confirmed in the government platform that we want stricter environmental requirements in public acquisitions. We will change both legislation and practice to promote sustainability in a broad sense. Together with the Minister for Climate and Environment, I am now working to find out how to do this in practice, how to strengthen climate and environmental considerations in public procurement, both in law and in practice. Follow-up work is already in progress. We see a positive trend towards more and more contracting entities making environmental demands in their acquisitions. But we have to move on. Let me also take the opportunity to make it clear to Stortinget that this work has a very high priority. This means that we will continue the active work of following the recommendations of the National Audit Office, while at the same time working to follow up the ambitions of the government platform related to this. Overall, the work on green public procurement will contribute to the government’s and country’s objectives of ambitious and effective climate policy in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement and in line with the fact that we will cut Norwegian emissions by 55 pst. by 2030. Public acquisitions are then one of several particularly important instruments that this government intends to exploit to the full.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6413	Through a few questions, I want to give the Council of State the opportunity to supplement it a little. I was relatively bold in my post and said that things are going better in public today. I wonder, when the Council of State is working on this now, where is the trouble to really get it into the apparatus? Is it knowledge, is it difficult to get people with skills, or is it resources? Where is the constraint?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6418	Thank you for the question. This is complex, which is also pointed out by the National Audit Office, and it is both about public procurement competence and about the fact that some – I think – may have a certain risk aversion, and that new demands may be a little scary. That's where we have to help bring down the threshold. I also believe that the legislation is not good enough, and that is why we intend to change the legislation and tighten it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6423	I saw that the Council of State got very little response now, President, and I think therefore he stopped very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6429	There was probably something wrong with the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6434	There was probably something wrong with the clock, yes. At least he can get an extra question. Also privately I now experience that when people are going to deliver something to me, they're busy saying that they're the best in climate, they're the best on green solutions. There's also something that's changed in recent years. Is there something that also goes into public procurement now, so that we are almost getting an intersection where the supplier might jump in front of the order?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6441	Yes, that's an impression I share with the representative. When I travel around and meet businesses and businesses, I often hear that they would like to be made more demanding, because companies have both climate-friendly and innovative solutions that do not always get through in public acquisitions. Then it is quite right, as the representative himself said in his statement, that public acquisitions should take more into account. Climate, sustainability and the environment are obviously important, but there is also a need for effective competition, so here we must take care of the whole. But I'm open to evaluating all the measures that can help speed up green acquisitions. The obvious thing is what we've said in the platform about changing this might-the requirement for a shell requirement, but I think we should also consider going further. This could be done, for example, by: are to require individual acquisitions to be so-called LCA analyses, i.e. greenhouse gas emission reporting, environmental certification, and there may be other things. Here we have to consider all the measures that are relevant, and then I'm aiming at a broad cooperation with the Storting, because I feel that we share this commitment across the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6448	We can confirm that: there we want the best, I think, in all camps. I allow myself one more question, which is kind of connected up to the first one, which was a little short. I'm a little excited about the competence when you're going to hire people to handle what we're talking about here. Is that competence available? Is it education that takes care of and builds up that competence? Is that a good approach to good people?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6455	Yes, in general, I think we have good and good people working with acquisitions at all levels of government. This is primarily about knowledge and understanding of what the legislation actually involves, and what room for action is there. There, I think the work that the directorate is doing with supervisors and taking down the threshold to a greater extent, exemplifying what environmental requirements can mean, and how one can use this legislation, will be one of the most important measures we have. So that's what I'm positive to, and there we also see a positive trend. But then the question is, do buyers have sufficient room for action to really do something that is good for climate and the environment? That is why I also believe that we need to assess the legislation, simply because I don't think the legislation is good enough today – or, let me make it clear: the regulation is not good enough today. Then we also have to give purchasers a regulation to work with so that we can set climate and environmental requirements that are more ambitious than what we are doing today. Then we can get a greener twist.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6462	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6481	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6488	First, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in the matter. In this matter, the Committee has divided itself into a majority and a minority, and I will first of all explain the view of the majority of the Committee. In this case, the proposers have requested a law that degrades the summary of the EOS Committee's graduated final report, passed on to the Stortinget on 24 March 2020. The history of the case is that the EOS Committee on its own initiative has examined the Frode Berg case and developed a specific notice from the EOS Committee, Document 7:2 for 2020-2021. This matter was dealt with by the Special Committee to deal with the specific notification of classified information by the EOS Committee. The Committee issued two options, the graded one, Innst. 500 S for 2020-2021, and the unupgraded setting, Innst. 499 S for 2020-2021. In the context of the examination of the case, the Special Committee sent a request to the EOS Committee to provide a summary that the EOS Committee considered to be degradable and such a summary was submitted to the Stortinget on 24 March 2021. It is this document that is being deflected in the draft representative. The Committee considers that it is essential to have a good control system that ensures that the services act within the regulatory framework, both the regulatory framework for each service and the general regulatory framework. The Committee would stress that the EOS Committee is a central element of this control apparatus. The majority of the Committee, of which the Labour Party is a part, points to the fact that the Stortinget has carried out the examination of Document 7:2 for 2020-2021. The majority indicate that the case was finalised and that the verification has been completed within the current framework. The same majority indicates that the then majority in the Grand Duchy did not wish to publish the summary. In such a situation, it is necessary to accept the position of the majority and to complete the review and examination of the case within the framework in force. Therefore, it is not appropriate to use Stortingen’s access by law to downgrade the document in question. The majority will also stress that the case in question relates to a document which is part of the control of a government that has now resigned, which has been processed by a previous magnification. So it's important for me to stress that the Workers' Party and the Centre were part of a majority who wanted to publish the summary in question. We are in the process of making control difficult, but it is not appropriate to reopen a control case. In reply to the Committee, the Council of State of Enoxsen wrote the following: ‘If the Storting by law adopts the publication of high-grade documents, this will significantly weaken our credibility with international partners. This will once again go beyond their will to share information with us. As a small nation with limited resources, we are totally dependent on international intelligence cooperation. There will be serious consequences for the intelligence service’s ability to perform its tasks if our partners refrain from sharing important information. Our national situational understanding will therefore be weakened if information from partners is not available. The intelligence service is currently contributing with a good understanding of the situation for the Norwegian authorities. This is essential for us to make decisions on national security on the right basis. The seriousness of the current security policy situation further underlines this point.’ The various elements I have been discussing in my speech are the reason why a majority believes that the proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6517	Here I think it is important to thank the rapporteur for a good and tidy job in clarifying what we are now deciding on. This is not a matter we have to deal with now – what is contained in the report that one is now asking to publish. I also sat in the committee during the last period and can only state that there was a thorough examination of the matter, with consultation and long-term work in an enlarged committee, which made everyone present; all the representatives of the magnificence were given access to what was available to do a good job. I react a little when it is suggested that there has not been a proper check because this document was not public. It's directly wrong. The size has had full access to all the information they needed, and got it. The hearing we had in this case is one of the best hearings I've attended in my years at Stortinget, with thorough, well-founded and informative answers, which enabled us to carry out the verification in a good way. There is no doubt that Stortinget has carried out the checks they should have. It has been done, and any publication now will not change anything. Then it is also worth noting that the Council of State of the previous government and the Council of State of the present government has had exactly the same conclusion and argument. I just have to say that even after relatively long shipping hours in politics, I don't have any knowledge to suggest that here the Council of State is completely wrong. I notice that someone means it. I haven't seen any good reasons for that. The Council of State has the absolute best information on how to handle this document and that information, and has taken its decisions on it. I respect that, and that is why it is not relevant for the Right to support the publication of this document.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6526	I want to start by thanking the case manager for his good work. I just want to clarify a little bit: as I said, we were among those who thought that parts of the report should have been published in connection with the handling last year. But we were voted down when it came to it, and we had to do the work on this without getting it public. I still think it made it more demanding for the Committee and the Storting to deal with it, but I fully support the representative Harberg, who says that the work was done completely, we got all the vision, so that the result was probably the same. That's the starting point for what's right here. Now we have nothing to worry about. This is not a control case. Publishing this part right now, without it being a matter of handling, I don't think I want to make sense to anyone who can read that document right now. Well, then, you can probably discuss it. It's just as Harberg says, the Minister of Defence then was negative to this, something that the majority of the Stortinget supports, and that's why we didn't get it up. Now today's minister says the same thing. Then you're going to add that one is in a slightly different international situation today than one was then. But the main point for us is that we actually don't have a thing right now, and publishing this now won't do anything to society. We have no basis to ask for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6535	I belong to the minority in this case and would like to point out that the majority of the Special Committee to deal with a specific notification from the EOS Committee's 2021 control committee went in to support the EOS Committee's own assessment of degrading the EOS Committee's summary. The majority of the Committee at that time felt that the Secretary of Defense's secret team was critical, and that the secret team was capable of weakening the control of the EOS Committee, the public debate, and thereby the confidence in the secret services. And for us, it's a big point not to weaken the control of the EOS committee. SV finds it both remarkable and regrettable that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre, who were previously part of the majority who supported the EOS Committee's decision to downgrade this summary, now argue not to reopen control cases, among others. because of the control of an abducted government. To that very point, it is difficult to say that if that principle were to be applied to the selection of control cases by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the volume of proceedings in that Committee would be significantly reduced. But it's a depression. This representative will first and foremost refer to the minority in the presidency, who stated in the previous period that this was the first time during the 25-year history of the EOS Committee that the overall conclusions of the sample had to be transmitted to the Stortinget in the form of a classified document. The same members of the Presidency felt that this matter is so extraordinary that any consequences for future cases cannot be given decisive importance. My question to the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre of the Committee is therefore: has new information been obtained that illuminates this matter in a way that has provided a new and more important basis for the Workers' Party and the Centre to change their mind. In that case, what?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6546	Should the representative make proposals? The proposal by SV and Red must be taken up from the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6551	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6556	The representative Sara Bell then addressed the proposal from SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6561	The size shall control the management. The EOS Committee is the Storting's tool for controlling the Intelligence Service, the Monitoring Service and the Security Service, and, as the case-leader explained earlier today, the EOS Committee's special communication on the Frode Berg case was dealt with in a special committee on the Stortinget. In the context of the examination of the case, the EOS Committee sent a brief summary of the classified report to the Committee, which the EOS Committee considered could be published, i.e. that the summary was carefully prepared by removing all classified information, so that we could have an open and democratic debate on a serious matter that had rolled and gone into the media for a long time. The Special Committee then decided to ask the Presidency of the United Kingdom to ask the Ministry of Defence to downgrade the summary. As we know, the Ministry of Defence refused to downgrade the summary. It was a whole new situation, which had never happened before. This gave us no debate on the main features of the case for open doors. A public debate had been elucidating. The secrecy made the Storting's ability to control difficult and weakened both the public debate and the confidence in the secret services. The last time this matter was up, declared among others. The working party and the centre party that grading makes it difficult for Storting to control. That's absolutely right. But I record that they believe that the matter is settled, and that they will not do anything to shed light on the matter. However, red will not give an approved stamp to a difficult inspection. For us, it is essential that the person who owns secret information, in this case the Ministry of Defence, take into account public debate, and that the ministry should not block transparency around the control Stortinget leads with them. Because that's what this is really about. Then I see that the government parties and the bourgeois opposition come together in clinging to the Minister of Defense's warning: If the Storting degrades the summary, it will apparently create the precedent and weaken our credibility in the intelligence of other countries. To that I would say that the new thing in this case is not whether the general conclusions of the EOS Committee are published. The unique thing is that they were secretly stamped at first. I am more concerned that the Ministry of Defence will use this case as an example and continue to secretly stamp the Storting's investigation of their business. It will undermine the quality of public vocabulary, and it will undermine the trust in our secret services. We have to avoid that. I hope this doesn't repeat itself. Finally, I would like to point out that countries with which we have intelligence cooperation, have repeatedly openly discussed their own work without it seem that Norway has lost confidence in them. This applies, inter alia, to: Parliamentary consultation of the British on the Snowden case. This is a matter of needing public debate on major issues that people have been concerned about. It may be quite right, as the representative Harberg pointed out, that those who dealt with this report in their time, at the last big time, got all the information they needed, and did it in a good way. I can't believe it, because I wasn't there. But what I can think of is the principle of secrecy and openness, and that is exactly the principle we are discussing and dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6576	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, in its opinion, recommended that the proposal to adopt a law for the degrading of the EOS Committee summary of the final report on the Frode Berg case should not be adopted. I agree with the Committee's position. There has been thorough parliamentary control, while the Security Act was observed when Stortinget dealt with the Frode Berg case in 2021. The treatment showed that we have a control system that works well and according to its purpose. The summary of the EOS Committee is security graded for national security interests. Information on the methods, capacities and activities of the intelligence service must be protected so that threat actors do not have access to information that could be useful to them. If such information is disclosed, it could be easy for a counterparty to find countermeasures. It would make our intelligence service much less effective and provide Norwegian decision-makers with less and weaker information. If the Storting decided by law to publish high-grade documents, this would also significantly weaken our credibility to international partners. It could weaken their willingness to share information with us. Such a situation could have serious consequences for the intelligence service’s ability to perform its tasks, and therefore our national situational understanding. The contribution of the intelligence service to a good understanding of the situation for the Norwegian authorities is essential to enable us to take decisions on national security on the right basis. The seriousness of the current security policy situation underlines it further. I am pleased that the Committee has taken these important issues into account in its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6590	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6595	We have not received any new information, and then there is no reason to reopen a matter we have been thoroughly informed and treated. I am not familiar with any representatives from Red or SV who have mentioned their desire to reopen the case, and it is clear that it is also not natural to hand out a matter that you do not have to deal with. To what was said about what you think about making control difficult, I want to clarify what we mean by that. It is that debate and criticism are part of the control that is being carried out. It was shared and was essentially secret when one chose not to publish. It's on the side. But as I said, we have no cause, and then it is not natural to downgrade this document either. It is also important to inform them that all representatives of Stortinget can read everything that is mentioned in the case. All the representatives have full access to this, and it is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6602	The President should have noticed that the speakers who are now speaking will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6607	I think it should be good, but a few comments. Firstly, it refers repeatedly to the majority of the Committee. That is correct, but the special committee is not composed after the elections, democratic after that. It is one representative of each party and two of the two largest parties. Therefore, a majority in that committee would be different from the majority in the Grand Duchy. It's important to tell about it, because it sounds like it was a huge majority then, and then it turned around in the Storting. But it's the composition of the special committee that made it that way. Then it's shown that this was completely unique, the first time in history, etc. That's what I think about the EOS committee dealing with the law in the past. It says that what they deliver to the Storting must be public and open, not graduated material. There is also a lot in the law on how to treat classified material, but the report to Stortinget should be unrated. What happened in this case was that the EOS Committee in two rounds meant something other than the Council of State on what could be unupgraded. That's the principle that we have, that there are information sites that determine the grading of the content. It would be very strange if we were to go away from that principle. Who will then have the decisive word whether it should be public or not, and how should we deal with it in the Storting? Then everyone had to read it to decide if it should be graduated. It falls on its own unreasonableness. That's the system we have, and even if someone can feel it unfair and demanding sometimes, it has to be that there are information sites that determine it on the basis of their knowledge, and then the Storting is related to it. Then there's an opening in the law that the Parliament can decide to get things presented by the government, even things that shouldn't be public to the public, but it didn't reach. So we're dealing with that. This just to clarify a couple of things that could be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6620	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6637	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6644	The Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the control of the administration, the Civilian Ombudsman, as it is now called, shall exercise control over the government in order to prevent the wrong of the individual or the fault of the administration. The Civil Service Officer shall also contribute to the respect and security of human rights by the administration. In order to carry out this important role, it is essential that the Civil Service Ombudsman has access to the documents of the authorities on the basis of which the management decision is based as far as possible. The so-called Harberg Committee, which investigated Stortingen's control function, cf. Documents 21 for 2020-2021 did not find it necessary to clarify the applicable law, but proposed that the Civil Service Ombudsman be given access to government notes if this was relevant and necessary in order to carry out the Ombudsman’s mandate and duties under law. The sample considered that it is the inspector and not the controlled person who has to define what it needs to know. It is, in fact, a quotation from former National Auditor Bjarne Mørk-Eidem in connection with the right of the National Auditor to access government documents. That is a principle that I personally fully agree with. However, the Stortinge dealt with a law on the Civil Ombudsman, and the Committee, in its opinion, pointed out that the majority of the population in the context of the examination of Document 21, cf. Inner. 409 L for 2020-2021, adopted a derogation from the Civil Service Ombudsman’s right of access to ‘government notes and documents directly related thereto’. It is here that the Red Group has tabled a proposal for a representative to amend the decision taken by the majority of the population, a proposal for transparency to the Civil Service Ombudsman also for government documents and documents relating thereto. The Committee has now divided around the centre, but the majority are in favour of the Red proposal and stress that government notes and documents directly linked to them, such as minutes of government conferences, draft government notes, etc., can be transferred to the Civilian Ombudsman at their request. However, the members of the Committee from the Right, the Party of Advances and the Left indicate that government notes have never been submitted before, neither for the Civil Service Ombudsman nor for the National Audit Office, as part of their control activities. So such a change is going to be of very great principle and perhaps also constitutional importance. However, the majority who want to grant this right, too, very strongly emphasises that the threshold for the Civilian Ombudsman to be able to ask for transparency is very, very high. As I see it, it has to be that when the Civil Service Ombudsman will possibly require access to government notes and documents in connection with government notes, there has to be a separate written justification, and some kind of decision has to be taken in the Civil Service Ombudsman to ask for this – i.e. a really high threshold. I also assume that the Civil Service Officer, if this happens, will give this a thorough mention in his annual report to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can also assess to what extent it was necessary for the Civil Service Ombudsman to ask for such transparency. So the party of progress belongs to the minority in this case, even though the signatories actually agree with the majority, which most people are aware of. Of course, it is true that we politicians, we representatives, also present issues to our big groups, and in this case I came into a minority, but respect and vote in accordance with the majority's opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6661	I hope that this matter will be concluded once and for all now. As a magnificent representative and as a member of the Control and Constitutional Committee, one of the most important pillars of our work is that it is the controller and not the controlled person who needs to define what is needed to carry out the control. In this case, the previous large majority, especially mentioned by the previous government, entered in order to restrict the Civil Ombudsman's right of access. The Civil Service Officer shall exercise control over the government in order to prevent any injustice to the individual or administrative error. The Civil Service Officer shall also contribute to the respect and security of human rights by the administration. In order to carry out this important control, it is essential that the Civil Service Ombudsman have access to documents on the basis of which the management decision is based. The clear starting point is therefore that the Civil Service Ombudsman is required to provide all the information necessary to do the job the Ombudsman has been set to do. So a constellation here in the hall has made it clear that you have to make sure that the Civil Protection Officer doesn't get access to r-notes, as if there's something happening often. As far as I know, it has never happened. But what has happened to the amendment is that the Civil Protection Officer has been told several times that they cannot see documents because these are directly linked to an R-note. I'm glad that the constellation that is supposed to restrict the Civil Ombudsman's right of access has gone from being a majority to becoming a minority. That means that we now have in this Chamber a majority who are behind the views of the Harberg Committee and who believe that the Civil Service Ombudsman must have access to all the information necessary for them to carry out their duties under the law, so that they can prevent injustice. I am probably not the representative who is the biggest supporter of pointing out that others have changed their mind, but here I make an exception. In this case, the Left Party could have enjoyed looking back at the debate that was here just one year ago. Then, as they now went in to restrict the right of access. I think it's eye-catching from a party with Left's traditions. I would like to repeat what the representative Grimstad said during the hearing last year: «It is beginning to be a long day, but I am pleased that the matter is being resolved over the first Tuesday next week. Then after the replacement list in the left I am not in the room." It's going to be exciting to see who has the exchange this time. The representative of Terje Breivik said this: ‘I’m going to be honest that the right of access or not the right of access in government notes has not been a simple matter for the Left to conclude in.’ But Terje Breivik wondered if the Center Party and the Workers' Party had been blinded by the opposition. He said, ‘When the representative Bjørke wonders whether the government is blinding, it is almost as tempting to put the question back to the opposition party if they had used equally strong words in this debate if they had been in government today.’ [[...]] Martin Kolberg gave a clear and clear response to Terje Breivik. He said, ‘Has the opposition been equally loud and just as principled if we had been in government position? I just have to say, yes. [[...]] And now we have the phase of Breivik's questions. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6701	This case is a little strange, if I have to say it like that, because it starts with a premise that one should restore a right, and then the idea must be that there is a right that once existed, but that was taken from someone. But after all the sun brands, the right has never existed. The right that is claimed to be reintroduced has never existed – and there is nothing I can think of here from the pulpit. It's something that's been claimed, that's safe for changing governments – red and blue yellow and green. There has not been a secure right for the Civil Service Ombudsman to obtain access to r-notes. What can we afford to end up at such a conclusion? Take, for example: Our courts. Can our courts have access to R-notes on criminal matters or civil matters? No, they can't. There is a total absolute ban on the provision of r-notes in Norwegian courts. Can the government today have access to R-notes from the past? No, it can't. Can the Court of Auditors have access to it? No, it can't. That's what's been legal until recently. Then you did the exercise that you specified this in the law. I understand that there has been some confusion about the term ‘documents related to these’ – if I remember correctly quoting from the legal text. [[...]] There might have been a little bit of confusion about the scope of that particular condition. If that was the problem, we could go in with the red pen and make adjustments. But this is where you throw the baby out with the bath water. You remove the whole exception and give the Civil Officer a right, which no one else has except the Parliament. It is only the Parliament that has some of the same rights as the Civil Ombudsman – not the government, not the courts, etc. I could still, but I just want to stress that I don't think this is being abused. Fortunately, in Norway, even if someone gets a home that you might not have in principle, it is not being abused in the first turn. The civil officer is made up of wise people who know how to use this, and they are most likely to follow the practice that has been, that r-notes are never asked. It hasn't happened, as far as I know. I'm sure they're going to handle it in a good way. But when we start voting for Document 8 proposals in the Chamber, without any major investigation, thoughtful structure or systematics around these issues, we end up with a code that simply lacks logic and internal coherence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6712	I have to comment on what the representative Frølich said. Some of the challenge is that when this was handled last year, it was tightened up, because it was added that there was a document that has a direct connection, so the restrictions were bigger than they were before. And when you talk about this not being thoroughly handled, I'll remind you of the Harberg selection. They have been consensual, in dealing with it, it is clear that with the limitations that lie there, this is a sensible way to do it. Then there's something that's handled and handled, it's this. I was the case spokesman for the review of the Harberg selection of Stortinget's external body last year. As the representative Jaffery talks about instead, that's exactly what we pointed out, that here one has to see that the Civil Observance is a very special requirement for us, which can only ask for this when it can actually happen to individuals. It's their most important task to tell. It's tempting to say a little bit of that last year. It was taken up before today that one was clear that an unbelieved we would stand for the same when we came into government. Then it's very fun to stand here now, as part of the government fraction, and the proof that the Civil Service Office gets that right of access needed to do its job of preventing injustice against the individual. At a time when democracy is under threat in many parts of the world, we must fend for our own. By re-establishing the right of access to Civilombodet, we state that the distribution of power lies at the bottom of Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6721	The ombudsman system is something we are proud to have given the rest of the world. If we look at what an agent really is, it means on an old-fashioned lawyer or someone who speaks on behalf of someone else – that is, when you yourself, a single person, have no chance of winning against the authority, the Ombudsman can do it for you. The Civil Service Officer shall keep an eye on the administration. It's supposed to ensure that the rulers don't do any wrong to those who've been overthrown, and are that way the people's lawyer. If you get a claim from the Kämperkontoret to pay crazy penalty rates, Nav deprives you of the right to a parent killer or a foreign student refuses your residence permit because you have to commute to work, the Civil Protection Officer can get to the bottom of the case and then make sure that the authorities do not interfere with your rights. What I'm going to say now, I've said from the pulpit before, and I'm doing it again: without transparency – no control. In order for the Civil Service Officer to do his or her job, no one can refuse them to see documents that are relevant to the case. The Ombudsman must be able to follow all the way to find out where the fault was made. Something else would have been to say, the civil officer is going to look at the power in the cards, but the power is going to be allowed to hide the ace in advance. That is exactly what happened when the previous government chose to insert ‘except for this, government notes and documents are directly linked to them’ in the Ombudsman’s right of access. The Harberg Committee, for its part, was unanimous against such an exception, but the problem was that the bourgeois had a majority. The civil officer was clipped, and the ass was gone. It was a loss for the people. The consequences were not allowed to wait. From the new law was passed in May 2021 until the end of the year, the Civil Protection Officer says that they could not get to the bottom of two cases because they were no longer given access to government documents. From then on, the Civil Service Officer could only follow a mistake up in the state bureaucracy, but what the government knew, and when they knew it, they would not be investigated. Red can't sit still and watch that. For us, the rights of ordinary people outweigh the fact that the political leaders at the top are going to let go of notes, which may even be embarrassing sometimes. Therefore, Red encouraged the proposal that we are discussing today to immediately give the Civil Service Ombudsman the right of access back. Esset is going back into the deck, and if necessary, the people's lawyers are going to see them all. Let me stress that there are none of those who are behind the proposal, who have said that this should be published everywhere. It's about an opportunity, a right. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV support this proposal. Together, we can restore confidence that Norway, the country that invented the ombudsman system, has an independent and robust civil representative – a people's lawyer who doesn't get to the wheel when it comes to speaking the people's case. The right of access to the Civil Service Ombudsman is now fully in line with what the Ombudsman himself says they need to do his job. This is also in line with what Norway has committed itself to, among others. when we joined the principles of the Venezia Commission. Of course, not all r-notes are automatically required on the cover of the Evening Post. The purpose of this change is to give the Civil Protection Officer the opportunity to get to the bottom, in his important role as the people's lawyer. Let me again stress that I am very happy that we have got new times. Now we're going to give the people's lawyer the opportunity to get to the bottom of the things they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6736	It is clear that a lot has been said in this case from several teams. I also notice that there is only in the Chamber today, even among those who vote for this proposal, nor is there any consensus on how reality has been. The presentation is at least very different from the posts I have heard up until now. I know that there are no parties in this Chamber today who disagree that the Civil Service Officer must be entitled to have access to the documents leading to a binding decision. Rather, the disagreement in the Chamber is whether the Civil Service Ombudsman should be granted an extension of the right of access to so-called government notes, or whether that right should continue to be reserved for the Parliament. It's also good to remember what a government note is actually. Government notes are not a basis for decision-making, either in the ministries or with the King of State Councils, they are not a direct basis for decision-making by the administration. They are rather used to conduct an honest and confidential discussion between different government councils on issues involving several ministries. Just because they are confidential, government notes may contain assessments that do not reflect the views of the government or the decisions of the government, but views and moments of individual government or of government, which do not necessarily share a Council of State. I have previously reacted a little to the history of this case, whether there has been a right of access or not. That is why I am happy today to hear, among other things. that the representative Bjørke also says that it has not existed, but what you have reacted to is what you see as an extension. It brings at least some of the majority closer to what several of us think has actually been the story. As several representatives have pointed out, there is an opportunity for government notes to be provided by decisions taken in plenary in the Stortinget. I think that's a good system, because in those cases where it's actually imperative, we actually also have a democratic opening to do that. Although that possibility has been used little, there are concrete examples that it has actually been used – unlike the Civilian Ombudsman, who has never been given access to a government note. I must say that I don't think it's very surprising, all the time they haven't had access to it either. But of course it can happen now if the matter is serious enough, already with the legislation we have today because the Parliament can adopt it and thus give the Civil Service Ombudsman that insight. Government notes are useful because they move confidential discussions between government councils and the government from the meeting room to the paper. It makes the proceedings better, more transparent, while providing us with a historical archive documenting internal discussions in a government. My concern is that the decision to which the majority now submits today is that fewer of the decisions will be made in writing, and that the honest and open tone of the government notes, which the public, after a while, will no longer exist. Although the principle of giving the Civil Ombudsman access to all they need is good, today’s decision could potentially lead to the opposite, namely that both the Civil Ombudsman and later on get less transparency in the government’s internal discussions, and not least that we get weaker processes in government with subsequent, and possibly weaker, decisions. That's why this is some of the reasons why the Left today does what we've always done before, and I'm looking at what we've done and not what individuals have said. We are also going to vote against this proposal. Finally, I just want to highlight one thing: when this is done, when giving this new right of access, it also imposes a great responsibility on the current government to ensure that we also have a historical archive for the future that allows us to go through the writing of the discussions that have been internal to a government. Then I also hope that you will look at what new initiatives you are launching in order to also provide a context in our legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6755	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6760	It may almost appear that the representative Frülich is suffering from a memory shift. It seems this has not been a theme. It was the previous government and the previous majority, who made this a topic by changing the law. What happened then was that the administration was given a great discretion, a great opportunity to interpret what was to be kept secret or not. This was not part of the Civil Code. And the Harberg Committee has discussed this. It must be said that individual parties voting against today have agreed with the opinion of the Harberg Committee. It is presented as if the Civil Service Ombudsman is now going to ask for transparency in time and time. Then you have to ask yourself, what is the Civil Protection Officer actually doing? The civil officer makes sure that individuals do not fall victim to injustice. And it's rare that individual residents are treated in government notes. To say that you should have the right to transparency does not mean that you should have the right to publish. This has also been discussed in the Harberg Committee. I think it's a little strange that you put this into practice as a matter that the majority have invented. This would never have been a topic if the previous government and the previous majority had not changed the law. It was also an attempt by the government of Solberg earlier to send out to the hearing a proposal in which changes were made to the law of the Civil Ombudsman, as it was then called. It was pulled. It shows that this is a debate in which some have been concerned, with the opposite sign – where we go for more transparency. It is also part of the Hurdal platform. It is clear that the government notes, that is also said by the majority, have a special status and also protocols and discussions between departments. We'll keep that up. They're special. It should be possible for governments to have good discussions without using them to discuss government judgements in the Evening Post or elsewhere as part of a handling of a case. That's not what we want. I think, unfortunately, that's not the first time we're discussing this. But I'm glad we've now received a majority to ensure the transparency of the Civil Service Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6774	If I have a memory shift, maybe the representative Jaffery has a hearing shift. Because I said very clearly from this pulpit instead that I, first of all, have no faith that there will be a race of transparency from the Civil Ombudsman now. They're too responsible and professional to do that. The other thing I recognized is that this has, of course, been a debate. I don't condone it, I've actually followed that debate very clearly, and I still haven't found a single convincing source that manages to convince me of this narrative, that this once was a right, which was then withdrawn. Nils Bjørke has met quite well when he says that what this boils down to is the formulation of what the related documents of the case are. We could do that by going in and adjusting or clarifying the interpretation and how it should be understood – if at all there has been a practical problem, something we've got some small indications on, but without it justifying what we're doing today, namely to blow up the door and actually keep it wide open and give the Civil Ombudsman a home that, in principle, should not have any other body in this country than the Grand Duchy in plenary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6783	I'm not going to go this far, but when Frölich talks about it being so dramatic that we're doing this, I need to clarify what the Harberg Committee report says, that there must be very strong reasons for asking for such documents. And one tried, when one treated this last year, to at least get rid of the plug-in that came in, but it wasn't will from the big crowd. Then it makes sense to do it properly now, when a first has taken hold of this, and which has really been treated through the Harberg selection. So sometimes it says that ‘yes, but the Greatness in plenary’ – yes, but the Civilo Ombudsman is not part of the Greatness, they should be independent in their actions. That's kind of the whole point of this. We need to make sure that when they really do, they have the ability to get the information they need. That's what this is about, and therefore I'm proud today that we have a plurality for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-05.ana.ud310e6790	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox As a result, today's map has also been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
