ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e65	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Modulf Aukan passed away on 28 January 2021, after a few months of illness. He was almost 73 years old. In addition, he had a long and comprehensive political career that sprang out of his membership of the Christian People's Party. His political function consisted of five periods of municipal government in Tustna. He started his political career as a municipal politician in the then Tustna municipality over 50 years ago. Here he was a member of the local government for no less than five periods. This solid effort ended with a ‘sammer stage’ as rapporteur for the last two years, from 1993 to 1995. During the same number of periods, the government was in charge of government policy, from 1987 to 2007. For four periods he was the first alternate for Stortinget. In both the periods Kjell Magne Bondevik was prime minister, he met as a permanent representative. He met in the Business Committee and the Control and Constitutional Committee respectively. At the organisational level, Aukan has been the local team leader in Tustna KrF for nearly 20 years and has been both a member of the state government and a central member of the Christian People's Party. In addition to his policy, he was a farmer and self-employed in agricultural mechanics. In addition, a wide range of agricultural and agricultural training was undertaken. He was a student at the Högtun Folkehögskule 1965–1966 and a student at Tomb Agricultural School 1966–1968. He also took a mechanical course at the Bodø Air Station in 1969 and the Winter Agriculture School in Oslo in 1972. He took over the garden in 1970 and drove it until 2012. The increase was a farmer in all his heart. After the 2009 elections, he took up politics. Instead, he engaged in church work and organizational work in the Small Farm. If you're going to describe the person Modulf Auchan, it's a good mood, one of the first things you think about. He is also described as calm and knowledgeable. Even though he came from a state where there have been some fierce battles between the various parts of the county – the ‘fight of the gang’, as it is often called – the Aukan was one of the few that was equally similar in all camps. The increase leaves behind a long and solid effort for society through its role as a magnificence representative and for the Christian People's Party. I light peace over Modulf Augan's good memory!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e94	Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative Even A. Red from 10 March onwards and until further notice by the Central Party Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative of Marit Arnstad from 10 March onwards and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Buskerud, Solveig Vestenfor, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Even A. Røed's leave of absence, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud: Håkon Ohren For Nord-Trøndelag: Dorthea Elverum
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e139	Håkon Ohren and Dorthea Elverum are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Kristjánsson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e146	On behalf of the big business representatives Hege Bae Nyholt, Seher Aydar and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure a real strike.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e151	The representative of Mr Birgit Oline Kjerstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e156	On behalf of the major representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, Ola Elvestuen, Sofie Marhaug, Une Bastholm, Rasmus Hansson and myself, I would like to put forward with this a proposal to stop mining in the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e162	The representative, Ms Søreide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e167	On behalf of Hårek Elvenes, Ingjerd Schou, Charlotte Spurkeland, Tage Pettersen, Erlend Larsen, Sveinung Stensland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to combat false news and disinformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e172	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e177	On behalf of Alfred Jens Bjørlo, Guri Melby and myself, I would like to make a proposal to get refugees to work quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e182	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e187	On behalf of Guri Melby, Alfred Jens Bjørlo and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on energy saving measures and more energy into the power markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e192	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President wants to inform me that I visited the National Emergency Centre for asylum seekers at the Council yesterday. I know that several of my colleagues have wanted to visit it, but given the situation it is difficult. That's why I was there on behalf of the whole Stortinget. It was a strong meeting, to meet mothers and children who a few weeks ago lived a normal life, but now are on the run in an unknown country, and where male and adult sons are still in their homeland. I also want to say that I gave a great deal of thanks to all the employees who work there, and the volunteers who do a great job. Given the situation, I got a lot of footage there, and those recordings will be passed on to the municipal committee. That's what I think is important. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e214	Thank you for coming to the Great Britain to give an oral statement on the refugee crisis resulting from Russia's invasion of Ukraine. We are facing a mass migration situation in Europe that also affects our country. Although most Ukrainian refugees have traveled so far to other countries in Europe, the government is now preparing Norway to receive thousands of Ukrainians in the future. Our floors are working on blasts to raise capacity in terms of both registration, reception, settlement and all the services that refugees will need. We're going to accept the refugees with warmth and care. At the same time, we will plan for accountability and control, so that the solutions we are now putting forward will be over time and when everyday life is around in Norway. The fate is that this year it is 100 years since Fridtjof Nansen, the first High Commissioner for Refugees, was awarded the Peace Prize for his humanitarian and peace-building work. His work took place, among others: Repatriation of Russian prisoners of war and relief of famine in Russia and Ukraine. It's also 100 years since Ukraine became one of the republics that founded the Soviet Union – and 31 years since Ukraine declared itself an independent state after the fall of the Soviet Union. So now we are in a situation where people from this part of Europe are once again driven away. I don't think anyone in this country is susceptible to this completely meaningless war we're now witnessing. Large cities in Ukraine have fallen, and several cities are in danger of being besieged and falling in time to come. We see cities, places where people live, being laid to the ground. Millions have already escaped from their lives and their homes. The images of desperate mothers and vulnerable and rescued children make a strong impression. There are very many brave Ukrainian women, and also men, who are left in the country, who are now fighting a heroic fight for their country, for their children and for their freedom. The despair that the Ukrainian people are now going through doesn't belong anywhere. We have not yet seen the full effect of this war. It will affect the world economy, the security situation and population movements for a long time, and it will also affect us here in Norway. The government's position is clear: we need to help – both in Ukraine, in neighbouring countries and here in Norway. It is the Ukrainians who bear the greatest burden of Russia's attack. They pay with their lives, with their homes and with their freedom. But Putin’s attacks have also burdened Norway and other countries in Europe that we will be able to notice more and more in the coming time. The migration flow is one major crisis. The attack can also lead to increased prices of electricity, oil and gas, affecting the economy of ordinary people here in Norway. Russia and Ukraine are major exporters of wheat, which could lead to an increase in the price of food. The Russian invasion could have consequences both for our society as a whole and for the lives and economics of ordinary people. On March 8th, the Foreign Minister and I had a meeting with the High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi. He also had a meeting with the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee here on the same day. It made a deep impression to hear him tell about the pictures he himself has seen, and his communication of stories about the situation that is now both in Ukraine and in the border areas of neighbouring countries. Today, two weeks have passed since Russia started the invasion of Ukraine. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees reports that over two million Ukrainians have fled so far during these two weeks. According to the High Commissioner, this is the refugee situation that has developed fastest in the world since World War II. More than 1.2 million people have fled to Poland, 191,000 to Hungary, 140 000 to Slovakia, 438 000 to Romania, including those coming via Moldova, about 260,000 to Moldova, 100 000 to Russia and 210,000 to other European countries. These are figures from embassies and from the High Commissioner for Refugees for 6-8. of March. There is uncertainty about the numbers since people are still moving — people are still fleeing, and people are moving between countries — but in any case they give a snapshot of how serious this is. The numbers will just keep increasing. In addition to those fleeing Ukraine, many will also be internally displaced inside Ukraine. This is hard to get secure numbers for. As a result of the conflicts with Russia related to the Donetsk and Luhansk outbreak republics and Russia's annexation of the Crimean Peninsula in 2014, Ukraine also had a large number of internally displaced persons before the Russian invasion we now see. The number for this varies slightly, between approx. 850 000, which is the High Commissioner's number, and 1.4 million, which are figures from the Ministry of Social Affairs in Ukraine in 2021. At the top of this, we have to assume that such a massive invasion as Russia is now facing involves a whole new dimension in this. All neighbouring countries are now experiencing a influx in a number and a pace that surpasses everything they have seen in the past. Countries are making an impressive effort, but there will also be a question of how long this can last before national systems reach the gap point. This will also vary between countries, depending on their own economic situation and national systems. For some time now, some form of natural distribution is taking place in the Schengen area. Many of those who came to Schengen in the first phase had family and relations in different countries, and therefore they also had places to go. It is now expected that those who leave Ukraine in the future will be less likely to do so, and that the burden on neighbouring countries will increase. Although neighbouring countries are able to manage the situation well at present, further developments will also depend on what is happening in Ukraine. The more the number of refugees increases, the more difficult it becomes — naturally. If Kyiv or other big cities fall, we also have to expect that the number will increase even more – if people will be able to get out of the country at all. I say this to stress that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the situation, and it is developing. Norway will contribute resources to remedy the situation in Ukraine and neighbouring countries. Norway has now given 2 billion. kr for assistance in Ukraine and neighbouring countries from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. I work closely with the Minister for Foreign Affairs to distribute this money where the need is greater. International relief organisations are important now, and we know that various UN organisations, including the High Commissioner for Refugees, the Refugee Aid, the Red Cross and many others, make an invaluable effort in Ukraine – with a great risk of their lives – and in neighbouring countries. The destruction of war also leads to a shortage of food, water, electricity and other necessities of life. This is a major humanitarian disaster. Norway has already received requests for assistance related to the crisis in Ukraine, and we must expect to receive more requests. A key principle will be that Norwegian contributions to civil protection, such as personnel and materials, are channelled as far as possible through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism in which Norway participates. A Norwegian medical team can contribute to health support in the event of international disasters — through teams consisting of doctors, nurses and technical support. The team is a complement to the services of the recipient countries and the efforts of non-governmental actors in acute crises. The team is now ready to assist quickly if there is a need to support local health services in Ukraine’s neighbouring country. Assistance may also be provided through established European cooperation. This is closely coordinated with other European countries and the EU agencies. Norway is ready to contribute to the transfer of refugees from Ukraine’s neighbouring country in the context of European cooperation. It is not budgeted for this in the 2022 budget. If necessary, I will come back with an additional proposition for the Storting before the ordinary revision of the budget. A concrete European distribution mechanism has not yet been established, but this can change rapidly as the situation develops. There is now work in the EU to coordinate the needs of countries, and it would be wrong to go out with a specific number of how many we are going to pick up. We are now in an assessment phase, a cooperation phase, and we have to do things thoroughly. I believe it is important that we have a framework that allows us to respond quickly when the need arises. With regard to the situation in Norway, Ukrainians have hardly been able to obtain asylum statistics in recent years. Last year, three Ukrainian asylum seekers arrived in Norway. As of today, after the invasion, approx. 1 000 Ukrainians registered as asylum seekers. Compared to other European countries, the figure is still not high, but there is a marked increase. In addition, we have to assume that there are a significant number of Ukrainians who have travelled to Norway without a visa and who have not registered yet. The same could also apply to other Ukrainians, other than those who have biometric passports, which means that they have visas. I would also like to remind you that UDI and UNE have suspended the exit obligation for Ukrainian citizens, and the UDI has suspended applications for asylum. This means that Ukrainian citizens who are in Norway without a residence permit will not be returned to Ukraine. We expect and are preparing that the number of Ukrainian refugees to Norway will increase significantly in the future. We can probably also see an increase in the number of Russian and Belarusian asylum seekers. A situation of high arrivals in a short time will be demanding for all involved. Norway has good procedures for this, and we have a good reception system that has experience in previous refugee crises. We are now getting ready to see that the number of people fleeing Ukraine to Norway will increase. The Foreign Affairs Directorate, UDI, is already well under way to build up the reception capacity in order to manage the refugees arriving in Norway. In these days, an agreement is reached on approx. 8 000 reception points, and this is a first step. In addition, the UDI has now entered a new competition. All municipalities and operators who have the ability to operate receive and provide capacity have been asked to notify themselves. The goal is to further increase capacity, so that we are prepared. An upscaling of the reception capacity is necessary both to adapt to the current situation and to be prepared for increased arrivals in the coming time. Asylum reception is one of several elements to accommodate potentially many thousands of Ukrainian refugees. Recipients must be seen in the context of rapid residence and the use of private homes as a place of residence. The government is using all parts of the preparedness to manage potentially large amounts of refugees that can come to Norway, and that we will deal with it in a good way. That is why we are now considering a system that can allow asylum seekers to live in private homes for a limited period of time and at the same time receive some support for living. There are good reasons why this is not part of the legislation in a normal situation. Any derogation mechanism for this crisis must be well implemented so that it does not lead to the exploitation of the refugees. This must not lead to the fact that the refugees are not followed up and not included, and we must avoid heavy burdens on individual municipalities. The government is now working on this. We know that the refugee flow out of Ukraine is huge, but we still don't know how many people can get to Norway. Arrivals are still stable, but the situation is unclear and may change rapidly. I am concerned that we are ensuring that we have good preparedness for significant arrivals in the future. The National Arrival Centre of the Council will be able to deal with the incoming refugees as a matter of urgency. It is not queues, and those who come are well cared for. But the capacity can come under pressure. Therefore, the UDI started early work on establishing emergency accommodation capacity as an addition to the reception centre. Several reception and emergency accommodation sites have already been used in several places in the country. This ensures that the government is ahead of the situation and meets it with control and accountability. The police are scaling up the registration of Ukrainians coming to Norway. After the establishment of the new Arrival Centre in Council under the previous Government, all asylum seekers to Norway shall, as a general rule, register there. The government now believes that there may be a need to register elsewhere in the country, and the police will shortly ensure that Ukrainians who are already in Norway will be able to register more closely where they are located. It is intended that registration at local police districts will be an alternative to registration at the reception centre, but the details of this solution have not been finally clarified. Decentralisation of the registration will relieve the pressure on the arrival centre in consultation and make it easier for the Ukrainians who are already located elsewhere than in the East to register. I would like to stress that it is important that those who come to Norway, or who are already here, register. This has multiple pages. One side is that the authorities need control over who's here. Secondly, in order to obtain a temporary person number and to be able to access services, persons must register. Ukrainians with a biometric passport have visa freedom to Schengen for 90 days. They can stay here on a tourist visa on their own during this period, but they have to register to access the follow-up from the authorities. As the UDI is now setting up rapid reception, many municipalities will be able to become the host municipality of an asylum recipient in a short time. However, some municipalities that do not have reception may be host municipalities for refugees living in private homes. For the refugees who live privately in a municipality that does not have asylum, we look at how to avoid this burdening the municipality disproportionately financially. Even in the current acute situation, the UDI strives to have good dialogue with all host municipalities. If Norway is to succeed in receiving refugees in a good way, we are totally dependent on good cooperation between the state and the municipality. In this context, the State Manager will play an important role. The same is true of volunteering. We have a big problem ahead of us. We will offer accommodation and follow-up to all asylum seekers coming to Norway. Ukrainian men between 18 and 60 years of age are normally not allowed to leave Ukraine now. Therefore, most women and children will come, and there will also be a good deal of older people. This is not so common in the ‘normal’ arrival image of asylum seekers. In the past, there have typically been many young men who have applied for asylum, and in many cases have sought solitude. This work will require efforts from several sectors and many actors. I would like to thank all those who are now stretching far for our success in this. Civil defence assists UDI in several areas of the East. They play an important role in the current situation.The civil defence is following the situation and is in good dialogue with the UDI to best plan and follow up any new requests for assistance. Civil defence expects further requests for assistance from the UDI and later from the municipalities. Volunteering also plays a major role. Red Cross, Caritas, Refugee Aid, Norwegian Public Aid and many other non-governmental organisations have mobilised both here in Norway, neighbouring countries and Ukraine. There are many Nordics who now want to contribute. That is something the government never really appreciates. I would like to encourage contact with a volunteer organisation, which has good systems and experience with this, in order to find out how best to contribute to the phase we are now. Increasing capacity has a cost side. In the current budget, an authorisation has been granted to exceed the appropriations related to the operation of asylum recipients by up to 900 million. kr, if necessary to accommodate asylum seekers. Work is now under way to assess whether it is necessary to promote an additional proposition for the Storting before the ordinary revision, also related to this. As you know, the EU decided, in its own Council decision of 4 March, to activate the EU Temporary Protection Directive for refugees from Ukraine. Other countries not bound by the Directive, such as Denmark, Iceland and Switzerland, also now consider similar schemes. Neither the directive nor the decision is binding on Norway, but we have a separate provision in Section 34 of the Foreign Affairs Act on temporary collective protection, which is now applicable. Norway applied temporary collective protection in the 1990s in connection with the conflicts in Bosnia and Kosovo. Many thousands of refugees were then brought here, and many also returned home when they could. The system is effective both for those who come here and for those who have to accept them. As we see the situation developing now, effective and good solutions are becoming important that can meet these people in a good and safe way. The Government decided, also on 4 March, to introduce a temporary collective protection scheme for citizens of Ukraine in Norway. The scheme provides for a derogation from the assumption that asylum applications are to be assessed individually and allows for the provision of temporary protection following a group assessment, such as: based on citizenship. We are now working on the details of the arrangement, with a view to its entry into force through the Royal Resolution tomorrow, Friday. Temporary collective protection facilitates the rapid resettlement of refugees in the municipalities. The scheme will give the refugees the opportunity to work while they're here. It also means that reception time could be shorter than normal for refugees arriving in Norway, and that is good. The responsibility for the settlement of refugees lies with the Minister for Labour and Inclusion. We have a close cooperation, and I know that the settlement and follow-up of the refugees after they have been through the reception phase is working hard. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity has asked the municipalities to report their housing opportunities, and I would encourage the municipalities to contribute to the rapid settlement of refugees in a municipality. I very much appreciate the positive and benevolent signals that have already come from municipalities all over the country. Rapid housing is important for bringing children into schools and kindergartens, and for adults to work and become part of the community around the country, for the time they need protection and will be here in Norway. I have the impression that there is great will among the North to help Ukrainians in this very difficult time. We see people opening their homes. We see that people support the humanitarian organisations working in Ukraine and neighbouring countries, with money, and some also travel to neighboring countries to help Ukrainians get here. To that I would say that we are very pleased that people will help, but immigration to Norway should take place in controlled forms. The refugees that have left Ukraine are safe in neighbouring countries. They've managed to escape the acts of war. There is a great deal of effort to ensure immediate humanitarian aid, and there is a great willingness in Europe to accept the refugees who travel on to other countries, such as the United States. has friends, acquaintances or relatives. I believe it is important that the collection of refugees and asylum seekers should take place in national and orderly forms. When it comes to travelling to a neighbouring country to take people to Norway, you need to know what you are doing and who you are taking with you. First of all, we advise against the private transport of Ukrainian refugees between European countries being organised. Unfortunately, in major crises, there are people who want to take advantage of the situations that arise. There are opportunities for people who do not necessarily have good intentions. There is a risk that they exploit vulnerable people. In an unbridled situation, with many private initiatives, there is a risk of human trafficking and trafficking. There is also a risk that people who do not have good intentions in Norway will get here in hiding from the flow of refugees. For the refugees, it may be difficult to know who has good intentions, and who does not have good intentions. In the refugee situation, this is a risk facing particularly women, children, lone minors and the elderly. It also applies in this situation. We want to avoid this. I want to praise and thank all the agencies in the sectors concerned, the state administrators and the municipalities that are now on the verge of accepting Ukrainians coming here. I would also like to thank the volunteering, the humanitarian organisations and the individuals who are on it. The joint effort is absolutely crucial. I believe it is important that we continue to have close dialogue with the EU and the High Commissioner for Refugees on the further development of this refugee situation. I myself actively participate in European cooperation. I have been attending two Minister of Justice meetings in the last few weeks, and I still want to have good contact with my European colleagues in the time to come. I am very pleased that the High Commissioner for Refugees took the time to travel here and meet us in this situation. Together with other humanitarian organisations, they make an important effort to meet the immediate needs of refugees in neighbouring countries. We are in a mass migration situation in Europe, and Norway is ready to stand up. We're going to stand up for Ukraine, and we're going to stand up for them as refugees, together with our neighboring countries. We have to stand together in this very demanding situation. I hope that we too can have a broad dissension about the job we now have to do in order to accept Ukrainians who need protection, and to ensure our own safety. Norway, together with other European countries, shall be a safe haven for those seeking help. We're going to set up with warmth, roughness and care – together. I will end by saying that even though the will and the ability to help now is great, we have to prepare for this to be demanding. It's only been 14 days since the Russian invasion. In the last two weeks there has been a great development from day to day and hour by hour. Much indicates that this is just the beginning. If many thousands of refugees arrive in Norway in a short time, there are also major challenges. It can put pressure on services, and it can put pressure on people who go a long way to help. To all of you who are now on: Remember to take care of yourselves, remember to take care of each other. Remember, we must not stretch the knit so far immediately that the knit moves. We have to remember that this is not a sprint run. This might be a marathon, and we're going to last for a long time. The government is therefore concerned that we are meeting this with accountability and control. When not all the questions and details can be answered immediately, it's because we have to go thoroughly into the solutions we add up to. It's important that the solutions that we now get in place are over time. We also need to be aware that dealing with many thousands of people in a short time can require us to handle things faster and with simpler solutions than what we can do in a normal situation. We're going to meet the refugees with warmth, care and inclusion, but we're also going to have a realism in what this means for the Norwegian community. The government will rig Norway for us to do this together, for us to have control, and for us to meet every day as best we can when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e311	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and final statements from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e316	Thank you for a very good report from the Council of State. Europe is now facing the greatest humanitarian disaster since the Second World War, and it is difficult to understand what this is actually going to mean. The fact that two million Ukrainians have already fled their country, and that huge numbers are internally displaced, is terrible. The images that we now see of young people and adults who behave in provisional bombers, of those who flee, and of families who are split, make a strong impression on us all. And we know that the number will continue to increase. I am pleased that we have a government that says so clearly that Norway should stand up and give help and protection to those who are currently fleeing. It was an important and right decision to go for individual, collective protection – something we also have experience with from the 1990s. No one knows how long the war will last, or how many will come to Norway. What we know for sure is that we must mobilize all good forces. We're going to accept people in a good, but also safe way, and I'm sure that the government is now providing good control in both a demanding and a changeable situation. It is a pleasure, as the Minister of Justice says, to see how municipalities across the country now say that they will contribute and accept refugees. There will be a need for rapid and comprehensive efforts to scale up the reception capacity, and I am pleased that we see a forward-looking Minister of Justice and a government that is well-forbidden. Those who are now granted collective protection have rights related to both construction and introduction programmes for which municipalities have to plan. Fortunately, the municipalities have experiences from the refugee crisis in 2015 – both good and bad – that will be useful now. It is also the case that the introduction programme we have today is much more flexible than what we had in the previous refugee crisis. Due to the changes made to the new integration law in 2020, municipalities now have the opportunity to make individual adaptations based on who comes and what needs they have. Those with relevant training and work experience from their home country will be able to benefit from the rapid track we have in the introduction system, which facilitates a fast way out into working life. I think it is important to say, because I see there is an ongoing debate where one is concerned that refugees can be ‘enclosed’ in a rigid introduction programme, but there is good flexibility in the integration law from 2020. Close dialogue between authorities, municipalities and not least voluntary organisations is crucial. Here I am also very pleased that the Minister of Justice was very clear that the municipalities should not be left with the bill when one is now starting to build up the necessary reception capacity. Volunteering, together with municipalities, will also play a decisive role. We've already seen that. There are enormous resources and capacities between the public and the volunteer. It is particularly important then, in addition to mobilising, that a person is able to coordinate this in a good way. It's beyond a thousand Ukrainians who have applied for protection in Norway now. We clearly hear the Minister of Justice saying that one has good control. We have reception centres at Råde and at Helsfyr, but we know that there may be a lot more. Therefore, it is very important that the Minister of Justice says that the government is now looking at decentralised solutions for registration. Finally, I am pleased that the party at Stortinget is gathering about how to meet this crisis. We have a good tradition in Norway to gather around broad solutions when it's really in debt. And now it applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e339	Let me first thank the Minister of Justice for the presentation. On Friday the right sent a letter asking the Minister of Justice to visit the Stortinget, and we are of course pleased that she does. But I must honestly admit that I had hoped that the Minister of Justice was a little further in the shoes than what I had the impression after the presentation. We are facing an extremely demanding situation. It's the largest refugee stream in Europe since World War II. Over two million people have fled Ukraine, and the UN estimates that the number could pass ten million. In 2015, over 30,000 refugees and migrants came to Norway in a year. It was a very demanding situation. After that, we have established several contingency plans, and Norway is better equipped now to manage a large flow of refugees in a short time. But now we have to be prepared for the fact that the number that can come to Norway may be higher than what we experienced in 2015. There is a greater pressure on arrival centres now, compared to what it was in 2015. Therefore, good plans and structures do not last unless the government has a clear and clear understanding of the crisis. Today, I find it difficult to see that the government has the necessary understanding of the crisis. A clear and clear strategy is needed for Norway to be able to accept many in a short time. The actors in the field and the municipalities lack a clear marshalling ground that is facing the challenges that we can clearly see. This is the responsibility of the government and the Minister of Justice. There's still time, but it's urgent. Let me do an example. The municipal director of Trondheim calls for a clearer national framework in the Address Paper. He says that all major cities are in the same situation, and that ‘there are clear leads to both expectations, financial frameworks and what we want to contribute to’. He goes on to say that there has been full confusion, and that there has been a lack of information. It's serious, but it's not a unique example, and it's also consistent with many other examples that we've been given in the last few days. It is absolutely necessary for the government to come up with a clear strategy – and I do not think the explanation necessarily bears the stamp – with clear ambitions and clear messages to all actors who are now preparing to accept many, and who will be able to establish provisional solutions if necessary. In the past, the right has also called for many measures that should be part of a comprehensive strategy. Among other things, there is a greater need for scaling than we have seen in the past. It may be necessary to derogate from the Planning and Building Act in order to ensure temporary accommodation solutions. There is something the Right has suggested in Stortinget that we hope the government can come after. Asylum recipients may be filled and it may be absolutely necessary to relieve the reception capacity. That's why it was good that the Stortinget, on a proposal from the Right, asked the government to consider how to provide support for people who are now living in private homes. Of course, it is positive that the Council of State now warns that she will follow up the decision taken in Stortinget, but it is also a question that the government could have resolved before Stortinget instructed the government to do so. There is also a need for faster answers on how to accept the refugees who are now arriving. The right-wing opinion is that rapid settlement, rapid entry into work, access to Norwegian courses and building up modules that allow the use of the competences of the home country here in Norway, good matching of refugees with the needs of municipalities, strong volunteering and a strong health service will be among the most important. We should remember that the first people who have now come to Norway are among the most resource-intensive, and we have to expect that those who come in the next round, perhaps more marked by the war, have a lot of help needs, are without networks and have no English skills. It is good to hear that the government has some more plans for how to handle this, but I also think the statement bears the impression that there is well-known information that is again presented to the Stortinget. The right considers that there is a need for a clearer understanding of the crisis and a clearer approach to how to deal with it. There may be an extremely demanding situation, and there are several questions that need to be answered, including: how to anchor our positions and signals that Norway is now sending to the EU about a burden-sharing mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e364	I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for the very good presentation. It is a serious time and a dramatic situation we see in Ukraine, caused by Russia's terrible acts of war. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees reports that there are already two million people fleeing Ukraine, and the Refugee Aid reports that every second the war is driving a new person away from his home. How many of these people in distress who will come to Norway are hard to predict. The unforeseeableness makes great demands on our preparedness, because although most of us feel that the situation has already lasted a long time, what the Minister of Justice was about is only two weeks since the war started. How long it will last and how the humanitarian situation will develop will show. But the signals from the Minister of Justice that we are going to show warmth and stand up for Ukrainians on the run are important and correct and a signal many whole-hearted will stand behind. At the same time, it is important that we, as elected representatives, also remember that in situations of war and chaos there will always be forces that do not want us well. It is an unpleasant truth for which we must also be rusted. We therefore share the Minister of Justice's view on the need for orderly conditions and transparency in this situation, and that we are now creating mechanisms and systems for managing the flow of refugees that will last for a long time and that will be able to bear a long-term burden. Many of us are greatly affected by the innumerable stories that are reaching us from people who have lost their loved ones and their homes, and who are fleeing as a result of Russia's unlawful acts of war. It is difficult to understand that there is war again in Europe, and many people are aware of unrest and insecurity. I think it is more than I know of a security when we hear the Minister of Justice's presentation of the good work that is now taking place in the government. The fact that we have a good and solid state apparatus is important in times when our system is being tested. The fact that the government has so clearly expressed that Norway is to be set up for Ukraine has obviously gone directly home to large sections of the population. In what too many people experience as an unreal situation, there is a strong willingness to help among both residents and non-governmental organisations and in Norwegian municipalities. It's incredibly nice to see the warmth and care that the Norwegian people are now showing for Ukrainian refugees. The fact that the Minister of Justice now considers making the private effort part of the preparedness to receive refugees in Norway is an important recognition of the willingness to contribute as we see in people. It is also in place with a thank-you to all municipalities throughout the country where the local government has adopted opinions in support of the Ukrainian people, and which are now putting their apparatus at the disposal of Ukrainian refugees. It is a strength of the Norwegian system that we have municipalities, county municipalities and a state that can mobilize together in this way. I want to mention some examples of the will that is to help, and that we look out in the municipalities now. In Målselves kommune, the rapporteur reports that they are staffing the health and care service to receive a number of refugees equal to 10 pst. by the population, and the premises are already ready. In the municipality of Salangen there are already hundreds of refugees, even for the extra vulnerable group of lonely minors. In my home municipality, the sale of a closed health clinic has been put at risk in order to accommodate refugees, and there is now a large-scale collection among the inhabitants of clothing, furniture, toys and other necessary for the establishment of refugee reception facilities. I think a lot of people will recognize themselves in these examples, because this is happening all over the country now. Today, a meeting will also be held between state actors and municipalities, just to ensure that all municipalities are continuously updated on the situation. It is crucial for the task that the municipalities will do in the future and is a good initiative for government dialogue. The list is long over all of the things that are now being done to ensure that Ukrainian refugees get a safe harbour here in Norway. It is a fine and important counterweight to all the terrible images and descriptions that come daily from the war-torn areas of Ukraine. What remains for me as the main lines after the Minister of Justice's statement is the need for accountability and control, as well as for warmth and care. It's a wise approach to the great work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e387	I want to start by thanking the Minister of Justice for the presentation. I could have wanted it to be something more specific on several points, and I'll get back to it a little bit. Russia's brutal war against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people is terrible and totally unacceptable. The Ukrainians are fighting a heroic battle for their democracy and for their country, and this war – as others are fighting – leads to enormous suffering, and we are now beginning to see the start of significant refugee flows. There are mothers who flee with their children, while their men are left to protect their homeland from the occupation. Older people who in their childhood experienced Nazi hierarchies, then to experience the brutality of communism, are now on the run again. It is war in Europe, people are fleeing our neighbourhoods, and Norway can and must contribute. The Progress Party has always been clear that people are being helped best in their neighbourhoods. It's for the best for those who are on the run, and it allows you to help even more. Refugee Ukrainians belong to the same cultural circle as us, making integration into society easier. It means that we have to and should do things differently than when we get refugees from elsewhere in the world, because the challenges, needs and assumptions of each individual refugee to cope with in Norwegian society are different. Over many years, Europeans have moved to Norway to take up work. Swedishs, Poles and Spaniards have done well in Norwegian society, without an introduction programme to teach them Norwegian culture and understanding of society. It makes no sense to pass on to Ukrainians coming to Norway with a two-year introduction programme. That is why the Progress Party has been clear that the Ukrainians should now have a quick track when they come to Norway. The work permit and residence permit must be there immediately, so that those who can get directly into work can. It will provide for faster integration and increased tax revenues and less seizures of public resources. In this fast track, we should also provide adapted Norwegian education for those who need it, but then in a non-bureaucratic way. Over the last few weeks, we've seen that the North wants to help Ukrainians escape from Putin's herrings. The Progress Party will therefore encourage the Government to avail itself of all the assistance that individuals, organisations and businesses can provide. The public does not have to take care of everything; private people can contribute with accommodation, food and Norwegian education, with jobs and not least with a completely necessary extension of capacity in Norwegian schools and kindergartens. Therefore, I would like the Council of State to be a little clearer about what she has done to enable Norwegian municipalities. It concerns both the municipal apparatus and not least the ability to make use of all the private capacity that is there. One goal must be that the least possible Ukrainians who will be able to arrive must be in Norwegian asylum centres. We should get to the Norwegian community as soon as possible. But it is also true that everyone cannot work — whether they are children, disabled or older. That is why the Progress Party is clear that the agreed refugee quota should now be reserved for Ukrainians on the run, because many people are on the run all over the world, and we must first help those in our neighbourhoods. Then we're still going to help people who are suffering from conflicts elsewhere in the world, but then we're going to help them best in their neighbourhoods. But then it is Ukraine’s neighbouring country that is now facing the greatest challenges in the future, and Norway should also contribute there. The Progress Party has been set up to grant 5 billion. For immediate humanitarian aid and assistance in the neighbourhoods, for food, for shelter and so on. At the same time, we are also concerned that there are people who want to exploit refugee flows like this. Therefore, the Progress Party wants the government to immediately send the Foreign Affairs Unit and the UDI down to neighbouring countries so that they can contribute and help in the registration and identification of the refugees there, in order to avoid other people with dishonest purposes using this chaotic situation to infiltrate Norway. The Advance Party is crystal clear: we're going to contribute, we're going to have the opportunity to contribute, but then we also have to assume that these are Ukrainians who can do well in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e406	First, thank you to the Council of State for a very good presentation. It was useful. We see a very special and acute situation, and it also requires a very special approach. SV is therefore very pleased with the government's decision that one now wants to give collective residence to people who come from a warring country. The war in Ukraine has already driven more than two million people away, and according to the UDI, over 40 pst. of those who are now coming to Norway, children. That's what I want to focus a little bit on. It is essential that we ensure a reception system organised for children in order to ensure the specific rights and needs of children. Refugee children are particularly vulnerable both because they are developing children, and because many have experienced frightening and now potentially traumatic experiences. The children who come to Norway from Ukraine are children who have been through an extremely dramatic and rapid upheaval in life, and for many it will undoubtedly be a great impact. Many have had to flee quickly and have had to leave family members and friends in their neighborhood. In addition, many may have witnessed fighting, bombings, deaths and injuries. This also applies to their parents. After a traumatic event like this, it is especially important to have the incident processed and safe people around them. It may be difficult for parents to know how to support their children and talk to them about what has happened. SV believes that early monitoring of the needs of children and the whole family should be organised and a psychosocial support plan should be developed, starting at the arrival and emergency reception centres and continuing in the municipalities after their residence. It is also necessary to ensure a psychosocial offer to children and families who live in private and who are not accommodated at reception. In addition, there are several points we want to highlight for the Council of State. Adequate staff are needed at receptions, and child-restraint skills must be sufficient there. Recruitment may be difficult for many municipalities. We also need mechanisms and competences to identify and monitor trafficking in human beings. As the Council of State says, in an acute situation like the one in which we stand, it will also always be a room for people with dishonest purposes to exercise actions that we do not want. In addition, we need to ensure traceability and family reunification. In a chaotic situation, which escapes from war as it is, children can be torn away from their loved ones. It is therefore important that the reception system in Norway be organised in such a way as to give priority to seeking and possibly reuniting children with family members where possible. In addition, receptions will be able to receive very many in a short time, and it also requires that we have meaningful activities. Children and families in such an emergency must have something to deal with. Cooperation with municipalities, communities and, in particular, voluntary activities will play an important role here. It is important that the receptions are screened. It is important to ensure sheltered areas at reception, where families with children can rest. Children who have experienced the need to escape and have experienced traumatic events have an additional need for tranquillity, rest and security around them. In addition, we need to avoid unnecessary moves. It is necessary to ensure that the families and children who have fled Ukraine must be moved as far as possible. Many movements were one of the main problems we saw after the increased arrivals in 2015. When children have to change reception, be separated from new friends and get school leave, it's an extra dream. Information and communication — Children need information and understanding about what is happening in their lives. They need to know they're safe. Now that we know that many families live privately, with Ukrainian friends or acquaintances, it will be important to ensure that they also receive sufficient information. Here we can learn from the corona epidemic and how we got information to the immigrant communities. We are now in a situation that requires solidarity and willingness to help, and we see that we do. This is what the Council of State points out: this is not a sprint – this will last for a long time, and we need to ensure that we follow up with sufficient resources to the municipalities and not least the care of professionals over a long period of time, and provide adequate incentives for volunteering, so that we can do this task together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e436	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for a good presentation. Europe is potentially facing the greatest refugee crisis since World War II, and it is estimated that a total of 10 million people can escape from Ukraine. Already more than 2 million people have left their homes and their safe lives, and many have left their girlfriends — husbands, fathers, mothers, and friends. What we see happening in Ukraine, in the border areas of neighbouring countries, is cruel. Red condemns the fiercest attacks on Ukraine by Russia and the Putin regime. Red came early to use Section 34 of the Foreign Affairs Act on collective protection in a mass migration situation. We quickly received support from most of the parties here in the Chamber and in the people, and we are very happy that the government followed this up quickly, and that from tomorrow on, as I understood the Council of State, you should put this in place. It is also good that the Stortinget unanimously on Tuesday asked the government to quickly assess how refugees with temporary collective residence living outside asylum can be temporarily guaranteed support for their livelihood. On Tuesday, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi, could warn during his press conference here in Oslo that the second wave of refugees will be even more vulnerable than the first. He says that if the war continues, we will start to see more people who have no resources or contacts. The situation is already demanding for the immediate neighbourhoods of Ukraine. Red expects the government to contribute more to countering the humanitarian disaster that is potentially taking place in the border areas of Ukraine. So far, the government has granted up to 2 billion. humanitarian aid for work in Ukraine. It seems Red is very good. In the emergency plan that the Refugee Aid launched, they are asking for 738 million. kr to help 800000 people inside Ukraine and neighbouring countries Poland, Romania and Moldova. But as the Secretary-General of the Refugee Aid, Jan Egeland, correctly explains: ‘We ask donor countries to dig deep into their pockets and find new money to help those who are now affected by the crisis in Ukraine and not to take resources from other crises’. After the insertion of the representative of Wiborg, it may be worth reminding this room that a refugee is a refugee, whether he comes from Ukraine or Afghanistan. It could be worth remembering. Nor should we forget that there is a group of people on the other side of the front line, who now also need our solidarity, and these are Russian peace activists. They're journalists, regime critics, deserters and military negotiators. We know that low fighting morals is the weak point of the Russian invasion force, and helping even more Russian soldiers desert from the military, can be an effective tool to weaken Putin's war machine even more. Several dozen people have already been arrested for demonstrating against the war on the Russian side, and the struggle of the Russian peace movement now stands in and fights, is central to weakening Russia's warfare. This includes not least the soldiers who put down their weapons. In the authoritarian dictatorship of Russia, there is no reason to believe that those who show clear resistance are wearing silk gloves. Therefore, Red believes that we should look at the possibility of giving political asylum more quickly to those who are fighting Russia and Putin's regime, whether it be artists, journalists, writers, musicians, oppositionists or others. It is also important to reduce the treatment time for visa applications for them, all those who are now at risk of life, both in Russia and Belarus, and we hope that Norway will be able to help as quickly and as quickly as possible. Many Ukrainians have fled or have been brought to Norway by friends and family and are already living in Norway, and in this sense they are already in an integration situation and a network. It is important that refugees who come here and have the opportunity to do so get to work quickly and get the opportunity to contribute as quickly as possible. Today the fee for applying for a work permit is over NOK 6000, and there may be a high threshold. Therefore, Red has thought that we should perhaps look at the possibility of having an exemption from this fee in the period we are currently in, in order to ensure a faster integration. Finally, I would like to say that the most important thing now is not to argue about practical details. It'll come later. Here we have to practice flexibility. We need to help quickly. And as the Council of State says, this is the time to stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e465	I want to start by thanking the Minister of Justice for coming to the Stortinget and explaining how the government follows up the situation of Ukrainians on the run. I think it's very valuable that the government seems to be laying down on a line where they're open to evaluating measures after the Storting, and I think as elected representatives we have a great responsibility to give the government back coverage so that they can do as much as possible to help Ukrainians flee. I also think it is important for us in the opposition to be able to contribute constructively with proposals to solve the specific problems and challenges facing Ukrainian refugees in an already very difficult situation. It is fantastic to see the efforts of individuals, organisations and businesses in Norway to help Ukrainians flee. It's touching to see how we as a nation gather around a common project to help people in extreme distress. The journey from the Ukrainian to the Norwegian border is long, and it is filled with bureaucratic obstacles. It is important for Norway to go ahead and remove these obstacles that refugees face when they arrive in Norway. That is why it is very positive to hear that collective protection comes into force from tomorrow, as far as I understood. That's very good news. In 1999, an air bridge was established from Macedonia to Norway. We can do something similar now by creating an air bridge between Poland and Norway. Here we can be proactive. We do not have to wait for a European consensus on the division of responsibilities between countries. We don't know exactly how many people are coming here, but we know that there are going to be many. It will take time to rig an air bridge, and therefore it is important that it starts now, so that we can put it into operation as soon as there is a European agreement on the allocation of responsibilities. I am very happy to hear that there is dialogue with the municipalities about reception points. The left calls on the government to maintain a good and close dialogue with the municipalities on this, but also on the capacity of kindergartens, schools and settlements and other welfare services for which refugees will need to make use of them. It is important that this dialogue is close and that there are clear messages coming to the municipalities. Ukrainian refugees will need both physical and mental health care. Here we also need to upgrade the capacity. Targeted municipalities serve as an exemplary example of how this can be done. They employ nurses, nurses and staff in the psychiatry to be ready to accept Ukrainian refugees. It is important that the government facilitates this in a good way also in several municipalities. The left notes with pleasure that the government is now working on a proposal for a temporary law to ensure the continuation of the integration of Ukrainian refugees, even before they are resident in a municipality. It is good news that the law applies to persons both in reception and in private homes. It is also great that the government will ensure that Ukrainian children can start quickly in kindergarten and school, that Ukrainian students will be able to continue their studies in Norway, and that adults will get to work quickly. It is important and right that Norway takes a leading role in managing the refugee flow from Ukraine, so that we can get going well here, but also that other European countries should be able to follow suit. It is very important to cooperate with the European Union, but there is no need for us to sit and wait for the initiatives only from the European Union. While we are focusing on the Ukrainians, we must not forget that there are wars going on in several countries of the world. We know that wars, natural disasters and human rights violations make more people around the world need our help. With the situation in Ukraine, we see more than ever what people are fleeing from. Norway must take its responsibilities seriously and assist with the protection of refugees, especially children, because we know that human rights and freedom do not stop at the borders of Norway. I hope that we are more able to meet refugees from elsewhere with the same degree of humanity and willingness to help as we see from Norway in this situation. I also believe that we must insist that there may be some people with protection needs from Russia in the future. I believe that it is obvious that they must also be able to expect protection from Norway. Because it is precisely in crisis situations that we need to uphold our principles, and that is especially true of human rights. I hope that we will keep this international solidarity alive, and I hope that Norway will be able to go ahead and make the situation of the refugees who are now, as best we can, by removing bureaucratic obstacles and making the municipalities better able to offer good services to them as refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e486	On behalf of the Green Party, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the presentation. The government has taken several important steps in this field. It is good that municipal expenditure to receive refugees from Ukraine is covered and that the government provides temporary collective protection for refugees from Ukraine. What is happening in Ukraine is a mass flight – the fastest growing flow of refugees we have seen in Europe since World War II. Over two million people have fled the country. Half are children. Many more are internally displaced in an Ukraine where there is still winter, and where Russia wages a brutal and ruthless war that affects many civilians. People who lived a normal life two weeks ago are now without basic security and freedom. Many have lost everything. Women and children in exile are simple victims of cynical traffickers. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that we now need to mobilise massively to help, but I would like to address some issues that I hope the government will take with me. Very many of those who come to Norway the next few days are families who have travelled from husbands and fathers. We believe it is important that the government facilitates effective and simple family reunification with its family in Ukraine when they need it. Secondly, we know that women, children and sexual minorities are particularly vulnerable to exploitation and violence on the run. I would encourage the government to work internationally and through the Norwegian emergency aid system to prevent discrimination against people in an extremely vulnerable situation. It is often the most resource-efficient that is self-responsive. The war in Ukraine has brought a refugee crisis closer to Norway than we have seen in a very long time, but we must not forget the rest of the world. Over 80 million people are fleeing – most women and children. With this as a hindrance, Norway must not cut the number of quota refugees from other countries as a result of the Ukraine crisis. We must also continue to bring fresh funds to Ukraine, and we must not cut in relief and aid to the rest of the world to finance our contributions in Ukraine. We're going into a time when, unfortunately, we're not wrong to be able to deal with just one crisis at a time. We have less time than ever to solve the climate crisis. Millions are fleeing in Europe and in the world. And now, when one of the world's largest grain producers is on fire, vulnerable countries in the south are hit. Increased food prices can disincentive communities. Even more people may be at risk of starvation, and more people may have to see themselves trying to take the dangerous path through Libya and over the Mediterranean, where thousands are already drowning because we have tried to make it as difficult as possible to get to Europe. It's good to see the solidarity we see with the refugees from Ukraine. It is important for us as people to receive people on the run with open arms and heartwarming – as we ourselves want to be met. I hope we take that further to all refugees no matter how far away they come from. Those who now come from Ukraine are going to need help from all of us. The public must make good systems, but also facilitate volunteering. It is important that the municipalities have open channels for state authorities in order to unlock the full potential of the solidarity we all know.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e508	Cracked pussies, nurturing women killed. Those who sought cover in the hospital bomber's room are still trapped in the inferno. Mass graves will be filled in the short moment when the bomb is scheduled to take a break. We now hear that there are more than 1,000 killed just in Mariupol. Putin – a coward despot, a mass murderer, a war criminal. History's judgment on Putin will be crushing. What we now see from Mariupol is pure evil, and the one responsible is Putin. We see pictures, but do we really understand the scope of the brutal, grotesque attacks? In addition, thousands are completely free of food, water, electricity, without contact with the outside world, in the middle of the crossfire. We get reports and verified films, thanks to the media, also Norwegian journalists, who take a lot of risks and are still present. History's judgments are going to be crushing. In the middle of this, I admire the efforts of humanitarian organisations that are now on, for example. Refugee aid, Red Cross and other ground-based organisations in Ukraine. According to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and other reports, Caritas, with its large network in Poland, has contributed enormously. The Church's Emergency Aid also has strong networks, which they mobilize. Now we have to equip them to meet the great needs of psychosocial support and help many of those who are now fleeing from the atrocities of war. And remember the refugee crisis in 2015 – it was a million that came in one year to the whole of Europe. Now Poland is about to receive a million and a half in a little over a week. Poland and Polish citizens make a fantastic solidarity effort. They already provide both shelters, schooling and health care. However, we all understand that it is not sustainable for neighbouring countries to stand alone in that effort, so Norway must support Poland and other neighbouring countries financially in that situation. Here's a lot of questions you might want to ask. That was a good explanation, but does the government have more concrete plans about what Norway will contribute, we who have doubled our revenues due to sky-high oil and gas prices? Who would contribute if we can't do it now? Moldova – 3.5 million inhabitants, Europe’s poorest country, are close to the war line. Developing things further now in Odesa, there will be a new current just towards Moldova and Romania the next few days. It is therefore urgent to set in motion a coordinated and organised outreach – sharing of responsibilities. We heard it was referred to the Nansen. So they got it 100 years ago. We have to be able to get it done and not spend two or three weeks on it. I want to give praise to the Council of State Mehl and the team around. They have been active from the outset and have committed themselves very clearly and directly to putting in place precisely the European distribution of responsibilities. But we know that such unity takes time, time we don't have, and time those who are exposed to and affected by the brutal acts of war in Ukraine don't have. It's not safe for everyone in the vicinity now. There is an increased risk that the destructive flows known to be present in Poland and other neighbouring countries will strengthen and get stronger to the surface again. We can't let that happen because we're not acting, but waiting for consensus. There is a risk that even more girls and women are being exploited and taken, because that's exactly what happens, criminals exploiting the situation and vulnerable, and human smuggling and trafficking. So it's urgent to get such an organized action in place — yes, get them to Norway as well. No one should do anything until everyone does anything, it is often said. No, that's not how it works. No one's going to do anything until someone goes ahead. Let's be among those who go ahead and help to ease the huge pressure that's on the frontier, and what's going to develop in the next few days, which can also be unmanageable. Now the Minister of Justice is going to hurry up, and it is good that a job is getting the pan-European solutions in place. The crisis we are facing now must be coordinated, but some must go ahead. What kind of signals and powers has the government met in Europe? Is there any possibility of a joint Nordic initiative showing the way? How long does the government think it can take before a joint effort is in place? I have great respect for the fact that it is demanding to organize what we are now facing here at home, but we get messages from many frustrated and impatient municipalities that have not been told that they should put crisis losses and be prepared, and what they should be prepared for. We can't stop the war from here today, but the situation of refugees we can do something about, and we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e535	15 days ago the world was different. When we got up on Thursday, February 24, it was to a Europe where there had been outbreaks of war in one of the European countries. The security situation had changed, and we saw the contours of what has now become an enormous refugee crisis, which can only get bigger in the time to come. I am very grateful for the broad support shown here by the parties to the mobilization of the government when there was war in one of the European countries in our neighbourhoods. It's good that it's impatience, and it's good to ask how we're going to do this. When we scale up the reception capacity, go out widely, use private homes and work with a temporary law for faster residence and with how asylum seekers can register – not only where you can usually do it, but also across the country, because we know they are across the country – then it is good to know that there is a broad upsurge in the Storting to handle this quickly. I would also like to thank you for the recordings and issues that have been raised and that we can take into account the work we are going to continue with, and what we are going to do in the future. As I said in my presentation, it is now absolutely vital that we go together. We're on our way in at a time that can be demanding for Norway as well. I want to be absolutely honest that there may be challenges ahead of us, pressures on individuals, on municipalities, on systems, that will be demanding to deal with if there are large arrivals in Norway. Now we see that the arrivals are about 1,000 refugees who have registered so far, but they can increase. They can increase rapidly, and that's why the government is so busy that we're now preparing for that increase. It's a huge device that's now mobilized, and every day that goes, we also get more answers. In this situation, we need to bring with us the whole community – from the Storting, through the streets, to volunteering, civil defence and, in particular, all the individuals, all the inhabitants of Norway, who are going to notice this. The government has been busy doing things as quickly as possible, with accountability and control. That's why it's important that we take the time to make arrangements, find solutions that go beyond time, that when the practical everyday life comes, this is going to be a good solution for both the Ukrainian refugees we're going to help, and for the Norwegian people, who we're totally dependent on to help them. Departments, offices, municipalities, volunteering, state administrators: there are now many who are making a formidable effort. The government is concerned that we are coordinating this effort well. Many of the issues that have been raised today are also issues of housing and integration. That is why I am very concerned that, as responsible for reception and arrivals, I have a good cooperation with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, who in turn has a good cooperation with the departments and departments that will provide services in the municipalities. Knowledge and health: a lot of people have to go together. It's going to be a tough time in the future, but I've been strengthened to believe that we're going to deal with this when I experience such an overall political landscape that we're going to contribute – and we're going to do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e550	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Justice and Security on the situation in Ukraine be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e566	Int. 182 S shall present the Presidency's position on the regulation of the salaries of the members of the Supreme Court. The setting is unanimous. In the last ten years of the Grand Duchy treatment, it has been suggested that the wage trend of judges in the Supreme Court should follow the level and wage trend of the upper tier of government executives. The Presidency has therefore highlighted the actual wage developments of the leaders of the government's senior pay system year before and the developments of the judges of first and second instance. At the same time, the presidency believes that it is also right to look at general wage developments. An overall presidency refers to the wage development of the Supreme Court over time and sets a wage increase of 2.7 pst. This corresponds to the increase in the salary of judges in the law of the land on 1 October 2021 and to the 2021 front course. On this basis, the Presidency recommends that the salary of the Judges of the Supreme Court, with effect from 1 October 2021, be determined as follows: jurisprudence: $2,280,600 Judgments of the Court of Justice: NOK 1 967 100 The Presidency is of the opinion that the current salary level of the Judges of the Supreme Court adequately respects the need for recruitment. At the same time, it is worth recalling that there is a work going on looking at the executives' salaries in the state, and thus the basis for determining the salary of the members of the Supreme Court in the coming years, but today we are dealing with what is the basis of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e586	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e603	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e612	I would like to thank the Committee for its speedy examination of a proposal that both engages and deals with many. On 11 February, the government decided to cancel all spring exams for primary and secondary school students. The decision was based on the Directorate-General for Education’s investigation, which gave particular attention to three considerations: the consideration of equal treatment of pupils, the consideration of a fair final assessment and the consideration of students’ motivation and well-being. In addition, the Directorate has assessed what was practicable. The Committee has noted that applicants for higher education are concerned that the cancellation of the written examination for the starting coal of the year could again affect the competitive situation between the coals which have passed the examination and those which have only the stand on the certificate. On questions of whether the examination should be carried out, the Committee agrees, so I would like to explain in further detail the Right’s position on the matter. It is not an easy decision to cancel the examination, nor should it be. Canceled examinations have a significant impact both on students who are not eligible for the examination and on the admission to higher education and the competitive situation between coal. It is also worrying that the school loses an important instrument that helps to ensure that students have the fairest possible overall characterisation. The examination is an important instrument for the quality assurance of assessment practices and the characterisation of teachers. The exam is also a student rating that ensures that students receive a neutral assessment — which gives the students blank sheets to perform independently of other impressions. The right is particularly concerned about the departures, and we support the Lector Team's input to the Ministry of Knowledge proposal, where they feel it should not be impossible to find solutions that ensure that as many students as possible receive an external assessment of their competence by conducting an examination. A large proportion of students are about to leave high school and high school without having a single ordinary examination period. It provides a lack of experience with an important assessment form for many. The right had hoped that one could conduct the examination as far as possible, and that, in the event of cancellations, one would nevertheless prioritize the conduct of the written examination for the 10th grade and vg3 graduates. When all exams have now been cancelled, we highlight the importance of maintaining the learning pressure up to the summer and at the same time ensure that the students are assessed on the best possible basis. In his reasons for cancelling the exam, the Minister of Knowledge writes that the cancellation will make the students as much as possible out of the rest of the school year, and that teachers will have the best possible basis for setting their position when the situation is as it is today. We hope the Minister of Knowledge does what she can to make sure that this happens, because there are many students who will need thorough assessments now. With that I take up the Right suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e631	The representative Margret Hagerup has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e636	The representative proposal that we are discussing here today is about whether the exam should be cancelled by the spring of 2022. On 11 February, the Minister of Knowledge held a press conference with a recommendation to cancel the 10th stage and secondary school examination. The proposal meant that the private examination, examination in a subject where there are requirements for exams to obtain a diploma, and a subject with a bachelor's degree, are normal. The proposal was sent to a brief hearing on 20 February, before final decision was taken – and final decision was taken: on 28 February, the regulation on the date of the examination was laid down. The background to the exam cancellation is that the students have been strongly influenced by pandemics for the whole of three school years. The cancellation will allow students to get more out of the rest of the school year and give the teacher the best possible basis for setting their position when the situation is as it is today. The pandemic has led to considerable differences in the school days of the students. Some students have experienced long periods of severe interventions, while others have had a more normal day of schooling. The differences make it difficult to carry out a fair exam. An important question when it comes to whether or not to conduct the exam is how we best use the time left of the school year. How are we going to do the most learning in months and weeks we're left with? There has been an important basis in the government’s assessment. As a basis for the evaluation carried out, technical advice has been obtained from the Directorate of Education. The Directorate has provided a thorough investigation into which different alternatives have been assessed and their recommendation is known that the examination should be cancelled. Right-wing promote their own proposals in this matter, including: ensuring, as far as possible, an ordinary examination. But I want to commend the Council of State for looking at different intermediate solutions to see if this is possible. It's not with a light heart The working party is behind an exam cancellation, but it's a recognition of the situation the school has been in for years now. An intermediate solution wouldn't have given us the gain we're now adding. A full cancellation gives schools the opportunity to work overall, professionally and socially towards the summer. I support the call of the Council of State: Decommissioning the exam should not be interpreted as a rest cushion and an opportunity to relax, rather on the contrary – now there is more room for learning and more time to be together. I'm glad we got this message from the state council in time, so the school sector has the opportunity to adapt.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e651	For students' predictability and a principle that everyone should have the same opportunities in school wherever they live, and no matter what kind of traffic lights the school has had on the starting line up to the exam, I am glad that the government with the Center Party and the Workers' Party listens to the students, ensures predictability and cancels the exam. The central party shares the concerns of the representative Nyholt related to the conduct of the year’s examinations. Not only are these concerns expressed by the representative of Nyholt, but also concerns expressed by trade unions and students. We have chosen to listen to the Education Directorate. We have also chosen to listen to KS, county councils, state administrators, the student organisation and teachers' organisations. The government has assessed it so that when an overall professional environment, with students and teachers, wants to cancel the exam and ensure a fair implementation and assessment, we do. This is in stark contrast to how the government of Solberg and Left handled this matter last year. Then the exam was cancelled on 27 May, just a dozen days before the exam. There were also some students who had had the exam when the message from the government of Solberg came that the exam was canceled. It created both unforeseeableness and uncertainty, and we believe that if we are to have a safe learning environment and a good learning situation for the students, then we must ensure predictability. The difference from one government to another could not have been greater than it is in this case. After a period last year with a lot more corona and more shut-downs than this year, we have now chosen to cancel the exam in good time to ensure that the students get the predictability they want, and I am pleased about that. It provides a better learning situation for students and teachers than when the exam is cancelled in 12 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e662	The pandemic has challenged the school in many ways. Among other things, it has become inappropriate to conduct examinations as before in these pandemic years. Rather, time has to be spent on learning, on taking back the lost and coming together. Not least, it would now have suffered unfairly, precisely because we know that there have been major differences in the country during these years with pandemics to the extent that students have reduced their school offer. That is why we in SV fully agree with the proposers to cancel the centrally given exam this spring. SV called for it early this year. It is a pleasure that this government spent less time than the previous one making the decision, but still the schools were in a very difficult situation until the decision was taken. This led to uncertainty for students and teachers who were to plan the spring. There is a lesson in Norwegian school that has drawn several times now, and it is a pity that it should continue to be so demanding. But fortunately, the decision to cancel came to an end. We are pleased that we support this. I want to add: many people now say that we're not just going back to what everything was like before, that it's the new normal we're doing now, and that should also apply to the school. We have had many experiences over two years with pandemics, and students and schools also carry with them the consequences of home school and infectious diseases. This is why it is also becoming particularly important in the future – even if this proposal is not about this – to equip school support resources to follow up on those who are struggling. And we should look at the contents of school in the light of the experience we've had, for example. around today's final assessment form, now that we've seen through the pandemic how that vulnerability in the system turns out. We need to address those questions, especially in the light of the innovation. What is the most equitable and learning-promoting final assessment form, consistent with the demands of peer-to-peer innovation, in-depth learning, critical thinking? All of that we have to go into the future, but now we have at least been told that the exam for this spring has been cancelled, and there is something SV supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e671	On Saturday, two years have passed since Norway closed down — at least most of Norway. I even woke up that the principal of Olav Duun's high school in Namsos canceled our appointment. It was the beginning of two different, strange and sometimes difficult school years for teachers, for students and for seniors. We know that it's different how the pandemic has affected the school situation around the country. In some places, teaching has been almost normal; in others, it has been mostly in front of a screen. Yesterday I had the pleasure of talking to a very pleasant hairdresser. She told me that very many in her class did not choose to go on as an apprentice after two years at school with too little practical education in school everyday before they went into the apprenticeship. This pandemic has consequences here and now and consequences that are going to affect us for a long time to come. These are the experiences that our school students are going to have in their careers and in further education in the future. Therefore, it would be unfair to conduct an examination, because the basis for the examination would be so different. It is very gratifying that the government also shares this view, but I maintain and promote this Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e680	Then the representative Hege Bae Nyholt mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e685	The termination of the examination in the previous two years was due to the risk of infection and sick leave in schools. In spring 2020 and spring 2021 we had no or limited access to vaccines, a situation that is very different from the one we are currently in. The central examinations of the year are not cancelled because of the risk of infection, but because of the measures taken to protect the disease, which during the school year have given students different grounds for carrying out examinations. It's a completely different basis than the previous years, where the situation was also much more inconspicuous and in major change, so it's going to be strange to compare the two cases, as it's tried out from the hall here. It is worrying about the reason why the exams are cancelled is that the students have not learned enough because of the pandemic and the measures taken to prevent infection. That means we haven't succeeded in doing something as basic as giving students the training they need. Then the exam becomes an unfair assessment form. If we have not managed to provide the students with adequate training under the pandemic, it must be compensated for, quickly and vigorously, so that the students do not go beyond the course of education with knowledge gaps and lack of motivation. The alternative is that the students take with them the problems that the pandemic has created, continue in life and in the educational cycle. The left therefore supports the majority in this case, as we think the best thing we can do for increased learning now is a good final assessment, and that schools spend time finding good basis for position characters. Unfortunately, the government parties and SV cut the pot to go to students with lost learning, in the budget agreement before Christmas. After the cut-off, the government launched a new national shutdown, where high school was put on the red level again, for a whole month. The left believes that there is a greater need to help students with lost learning in 2022 than it looked when reopening in the autumn of 2021. We have therefore proposed in our budget $200 million for such measures, in addition to the $300 million. kr to summer school that should have taken place this summer. The Education Committee now has a proposal for treatment from the Left and the Right, which is about re-establishing the lost professional and social learning and dense knowledge gaps in Norwegian school as a result of the pandemic. I hope that the government will come up with measures to strengthen learning in good time before the summer, so that the students' right to training can be met again. It's a necessity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e704	I've never said, and I'm never going to say, that the exam is canceled because the students haven't learned enough. We don't know enough about what students have missed out on purely professionally, so I've started a lot of projects to figure it out. But that's not the reason why the exam was cancelled this year. What the pandemic, on the other hand, has shown us very clearly is how dependent the students are on being together to learn together. Most people in this room agree that the examination is an important part of the school and the Norwegian final assessment system. The exams include: an opportunity to obtain an assessment of an external sensor, and it provides important training for the students. It was therefore not an easy decision to make when we cancelled the year's exams. But even though the exam is important for both students and teachers, the Education Directorate was clear in its recommendation to cancel Spring Eve exams. The pandemic has created so many differences in the everyday school life of students that an examination and such an assessment would not have been fair or equivalent enough. The Education Directorate’s report was largely based on input from school owners and school sector organisations. Although there were several people who wanted to have a partial or complete examination, a majority understood that a cancellation was correct. Our proposal to cancel most of the spring exams was sent to a brief hearing before the decision was taken, and we saw the same pattern there. The cancellation of most of the year’s exams is supported by many in the school sector. However, private examinations and examinations in subjects requiring examination in order to obtain a diploma shall be carried out. The pandemic has made it very difficult to run school for periods of time, even this year. Both pupils and teachers have been affected by infectious diseases and by high levels of sick leave. The examination period requires the school to complete an early assessment of its position, and a lot of teaching time by the end of the year also disappears. An early decision to cancel the exam allows schools to make better use of the time at the end of the year. Teachers can then continue to receive normal training further into the school year and also gain a better basis for setting positions for each individual student. The exam is important and will continue to be part of the school in the future. But this year, as in the previous two pandemic years, it is important that the exams become correct and reasonable, and therefore, this year too, we will cancel the exams – both because a performance would have been unfair for many students, and because a cancellation can give schools and students much needed peace and predictability at the end of a very special school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e720	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e725	In the grounds for cancelling the exam, the Minister of Knowledge pointed out that this is now making the students as much as possible out of the rest of the school year, and that teachers are given the best possible basis for setting positions. It is important that we now focus on students getting the most lessons out of what is left of the school year, but the Education Directorate's risk analysis for the conduct of the exam in spring 2022 shows that the experience from previous years is that one has had difficulty meeting the ambition for increased learning because of the lack of motivation of the students, and that the position character must nevertheless be set in time for the students to have a possible post-graduate examination and can reach the admission to higher education. My question is therefore: how will the Council of State follow up that the ambitions for increased education out of the school year remain more than ambitions, and that it is actually being followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e732	I think the most important thing we did was early to be clear that it was being cancelled, so that the schools could also plan for how to spend time towards the holiday. So, since this is a regular question that comes up, I just want to make it very clear that it's not that even if it's not going to be an exam, there's no learning going on in Norwegian school. It's not that because the exam is canceled this year, students and teachers relax and don't work. On the contrary, our teachers work hard every day, especially during the pandemic, so that students can learn what to do. They also closely follow up students who have an extra need for it, and ensure that there is learning in each classroom every day. I believe that having close dialogue about this, both listening to the assessment of whether or not to cancel, and also in the future being quite clear about the time I am so busy about, is the most important thing I can contribute to. I have great confidence in the teachers, great confidence in our schools, and I am very clear that they must use this opportunity and take full advantage of the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e741	It's good to hear that the dialogue is good. The exam is an important part of school life. When it's canceled on the grounds that the students have learned too little in home school, and that the learning outcomes have been different around the country, it's worrying. So far in the pandemic, redundancy packages have been distributed, but the government and SV have not yet chosen to earmark fresh funds for lost learning and summer schooling. The right and left proposed to earmark funds for lost learning and summer school in connection with the crisis package adopted earlier, and together we have also promoted a separate proposal with measures to help re-establish lost learning and dense knowledge gaps. For the Right, it's important that this becomes more than talk and good intentions, and then, in fact, funds have to be earmarked for this. The Council of State will probably point to the increase in the framework of the municipalities and that there are investigations that are awaiting a response, but earmarking will in this case be a clear and clear priority, and there is already more than enough knowledge at the bottom to put this in place. My question is therefore: will the Council of State provide appropriations and measures to re-establish lost learning, and when will this happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e750	I repeat what I said earlier, that the fact that the students have learned too little during the school year, is not the reason for the cancelled exam. But the whole basis for the exam is to have an equal assessment after a relatively similar school year, and the school year has not been similar because in parts of the country there have been very strict measures over a long time. That's why it's not fair to put the same exam form in those different school years. So I'm concerned that if we're going to say that we're really going to compensate for holes that exist, we need to know what those holes are. That's why I've launched four major projects to reveal just that: one for the small step, one for the youth, one for the special way in which the pandemic has hit vulnerable students, and one for looking at the measures that have already been implemented, and whether they have worked. If the representative from the Right knows something I do not know exactly where action is needed, I would like to receive input into it. We're going to do what we can to compensate for this, but we need to know what the need is before we take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e757	We are very pleased that the Council of State took the necessary decision and cancelled the exam for this spring. We know, as many people have been involved in posts and replies, that the consequences of these pandemic years are going to be in the hands of Norwegian students, teachers and other employees in the school in the future, and we're glad that the Council of State has started processes to figure out which holes to close. A hole I think the council agrees with us in SV that we are already very aware and see, is the manning situation in the schools and not least in the kindergartens. We've seen and still see, with a very high level of sick leave, how critically low the manning is. Therefore, SV has pointed to recruitment measures for pedagogues, but also to recruit and employ more people in the so-called ‘student’ team – support staff, environmental therapists, child and youth workers, etc. – as some of what we now probably should start to rust up the school. Is there anything the Council of State considers?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e762	I agree with the representative that the team around the student is enormously important, and that we must always focus on having sufficient competent employees in our schools and kindergartens. The municipalities are responsible for recruiting teachers. It's not something I'm sitting in my office with. It's up to the municipalities to do. That's why the boring but honest answer is that the local government budget framework is one of the most important things we can do to provide adequate staff in schools and kindergartens. We've said on the government platform that we're going to go through the norms we have, whether they're going to turn out right in terms of both school and kindergarten staffing. But I am still concerned about saying that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to employ enough teachers. The municipalities also do a good job there. There are more teachers per child today than there were just a few years ago in Norway. I'm glad. So I think the acute thing is about the social for the students, and then not to let in many new fix ideas at school, but on the contrary, giving work rest, which is one of the most important things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e771	I very much agree with that – working time is now needed. You shouldn't throw a lot of balls in the air, but you should probably try to have more people to take the balls that are now coming down. I think that's what I need. I think a lot of people in school are familiar with that. And it's true as the Council of State says, that it's the responsibility of the municipalities to hire teachers, but both the Swedish Labour Party and the Central Party have previously agreed to call for better recruitment measures for educators in both school and kindergarten, so it might be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about it anyway. The Council of State also mentioned this with standards. A specific requirement that is at the forefront, among other things: by the Joint Organisation, the setting up of a requirement for environmental therapists/students in schools. This is how we from a central level can provide guidelines for – made around the student at school – that will then be resolved locally according to local needs. Is there anything the government and the Council of State also consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e778	I agree with the representative that the team around the student can be made up of many different professional groups – that should be the case. Environmental therapists are one of them. In addition, I am concerned that the PP service receives both the resources and the attention needed by the PP service. We look at various measures to ensure that the student team is strengthened. It is about municipalities having a framework to employ more teachers, more environmental workers, more therapists of different kinds and to strengthen the PP service. But it's also about getting a little deeper into what's the best recipe on this team around the student, because we know that there can be both a connection to the professional struggle between the different professionals who work around children and young people, and we also know that everyone thinks well, but that we have to get a way of working on which the efforts of the different professional groups can strengthen each other, so that each student gets what he is entitled to. This is a work we're doing, and I look forward to discussing it further with Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e785	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e792	I have to admit that I am both an apprentice and a beginner in this and realize that I have made a mistake, and then you have to be so big that you say it. So once the exam is cancelled, of course, I'm not going to keep our proposal and draw it. I think it's called an incurrency, but it's not quite certain. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e798	Then the representative Hege Bae Nyholt drew proposal No. Three from Red. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e817	Today, antibiotics are medicines that are taken for granted in many sectors, whether you are a patient who is being treated for pneumonia, or whether you are a farmer, treating animals with antibiotics to eradicate disease. However, this has not always been the case, nor will it continue if the development of antibiotic resistance continues. An escalating and significant increase in the consumption of antibiotics has resulted in the world facing growing and major challenges of resistant bacteria and microbes in many different areas. If we don't take the right grips, it can go wrong in the coming decades. According to a recently published study in The Lancet, worldwide antibiotic resistance requires 1 million deaths every year. Antimicrobial resistance, abbreviated to AMR, is a major threat to global health safety. Nordic and international cooperation is a prerequisite for reducing resistance and dying from antibiotic resistance. In Norway, we have had ambitious targets for reducing the use of antibiotics, and we have achieved the targets. In 2015, the previous government set a target of 30 pst. reducing antibiotics by the end of 2020. The figures from NORM 2020, the Norwegian monitoring system for antibiotic resistance in microbes, show a reduction of 32 pst. It is incredibly enjoyable and important to achieve the objectives. There is no doubt that the Solberg Government’s strategy of clear action has helped Norway to remain among the world’s lowest users of antibiotics, and many have contributed to this. Good and close efforts by the doctors who prescribe drugs have made us reach the goal of 20 pst. reduction of antibiotic use in the case of respiratory infections. The fact that the consumption of antibiotics for Norwegian teenagers is now less than one third of what it was in 2019 is also due to the same. We have managed to keep the proportion of resistant yellow staphylococci, both in hospitals and primary health services, very low, and to follow closely the latest, antibiotic use is now measured in hospitals annually. These show a steady decline in recorded infections, and this is important in order to reduce the use of antibiotics. However, measures to reduce the use of antibiotics are not only important in healthcare. We have also been very successful in agriculture in Norway in recent years, for example. narasin used in chicken production was phased out in 2016 and the target of reducing the antibiotic consumption of pet animals and food-producing terrestrial animals was achieved already in 2017. So, with clear responses and strategies, reducing the use of antibiotics benefits. But if there's something the pandemic has shown us, it's that we don't live isolated from the rest of the world, either in terms of the resistance problem. That's why we can never say we're in goal, nor here in Norway. There is always an opportunity to improve, and also reduce the use of antibiotics. Although we are reaching our targets in Norway, it is not in any way stated that other countries in the world are doing the same or that they are meeting the same objectives. That's why we need to work together, countries, regions and the whole world, to do everything in our power, to deal with the climate crisis of this healthcare, which antibiotic resistance represents. Norway has a long and good tradition of cooperation on these issues, including in the Nordic Council. The fight against antibiotic resistance is one of the areas in which the Nordic Council has pointed out that it is natural to cooperate more on in the Nordic region. In April 2017, the Nordic Council adopted a report called ‘Man probably does not die from pneumonia’. The report describes a strategy with seven overall objectives, followed by twelve qualified and professionally based recommendations, which show how a policy strategy can be translated into concrete action. The Nordic Council has therefore agreed to these proposals and recommends that the Nordic Council of Ministers launch initiatives. My question will then be: Will the government follow the recommendations of the Nordic Council White Paper on a common Nordic action plan against antibiotic resistance with funding, reporting and political control?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e836	Antibiotics are among our most important drugs in the fight against infectious diseases. Antibiotics save lives every day. In order for us to continue to have access to antibiotics that work in the future, it's very central that we use the right antibiotics, that we use the right amount of antibiotics, and that we limit the use of antibiotics to the diseases where antibiotics are actually needed. These principles are important for human health, animal health and the environment. Many lives are now lost due to infections that cannot be treated due to resistance. In a recent study published in The Lancet, the authors calculated that antibiotic resistance accounts for 1.27 million deaths each year, but the figures may be much higher than this. The study also shows that low-income countries have the highest disease burden associated with antibiotic resistance, and pulmonary infections account for the vast majority of deaths. In 2017, antibiotic resistance was a topic addressed in the Nordic Council, and a 12-point plan for Nordic cooperation on antibiotic resistance was proposed. Afterwards, the plan was reviewed by an expert group which assessed the individual points. The expert group supported the initiative mainly, but pointed out that there are very many initiatives under the auspices of the EU and the World Health Organisation, and that duplication of work should be avoided. An important objection was also that the 12-point plan did not highlight the environmental aspect. This government is concerned with limiting antibiotic resistance. In the Hurdal platform, we state that the national strategy against antibiotic resistance needs to be revised. Antibiotic resistance is not an isolated problem for the health sector, on the contrary. Work on the Norwegian strategy must be a cross-disciplinary cooperation involving both the agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture sectors and, above all, the environmental sector. Nordic cooperation on access to antibiotics is already well established. The Health Directorate has previously recommended looking at the possibility of producing narrow-spectrum antibiotics in Norway, and the Directorate is now conducting a potential study on antibiotic production. There has been dialogue between the Nordic countries in this work. Commitment agreements have also been concluded between Norway, Denmark and Iceland on the strengthening of Nordic cooperation in medicinal products, the safe supply of established supply-critical medicinal products and the rapid introduction of new effective medicinal products at a proper price. As part of this cooperation, several joint tenders have been carried out, including: related to antibiotics. Work on the revision of the strategy will also assess the Nordic Council White Paper and the twelve points. The problem of resistance is highly international, which requires cooperation beyond national borders. The Lancet study, however, points out that the poorest countries are the hardest hit by antibiotic resistance. In the international context, the Nordic countries are very well placed with low prevalence of resistant microbes and low consumption of antibiotics. Nordic cooperation will continue to be important, but even more important will work outside our nearest neighbouring country. The fight against antibiotic resistance can only succeed in global cooperation involving the most severely affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e853	Thank you to the Council of State for a good answer. I must say that I am very pleased that the Minister of Health is so clear that the Norwegian strategy will be revised and that the twelve proposals contained in the White Paper of the Nordic Council will be reviewed and evaluated at work. Although there may be aspects to these twelve concrete actions that need to be assessed in a national strategy — but also in a wider context — it does not mean that some of these concrete actions can be important to strengthen Nordic interaction on this issue. It may also be something we can learn from in Norway. We almost don't cooperate more closely with other countries than we do in the Nordic region. We're close together. We have health professionals working across borders, and we have a population that is moving across borders -- at least when we don't have a pandemic that closes the boundaries between us. It is also the case that the Nordic prime ministers have a very clear vision that we are going to be the world's most sustainable and world's most integrated region. It is important that it also permeates all the sectors and areas where we have a lot in common, where we can cooperate well, and where we can learn from each other and from each other's work. I will continue to follow this area very closely, and I feel that there is a great cross-political consensus that this is a work we must take seriously in Norway, in the Nordic countries and in the world. Having a good national readiness doesn't mean that we're not going to have the same thing with those who are geographically close to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e866	I want to thank the interpellant for an engagement that both me and the government share. I think that is the contribution that Norway can make internationally that can also benefit others. Our Nordic countries are always close allies as we go further into the world and try to take initiatives. I actually think the interpellant and I were on a joint committee trip a few years ago where we among other things. received a meeting with Lord Jim'O Neill, who was behind it some years ago quite a pioneering report entitled 'The Review on Antimicrobial Resistance', in which economists finally got an estimate of what this has of the potential cost to the world community. If we see a little bit in the rearview mirror, we know that in the climate work it was only when we got up and had the economic consequences that we also had binding international agreements in place. We think we have to go the same path. In Norway, we have the Antibiotics Center in the Primary Health Service. I want to lift them up, because the community health service is central here. They focus in particular on training and information for decision-makers and others in primary health services, where they also research resistance. We also have national services of excellence for antibiotic use in the specialist health service, we have FHI, we have a lot of people who take care that we have a right and good development in Norway, and we also have it in cross-sectoral terms. So it's about taking these initiatives into account in the international processes that are now taking place. It is now being negotiated at full international level, both in the WHO and in the EU, to follow up international commitments on pandemic preparedness. This is also followed by proposals for more binding legislation and treaties, which give rise to a different obligation between participating countries. Working into these processes, including the problem of AMR, we believe that we are right and a more fruitful way than perhaps raising our own initiatives – now that the world is focusing a lot on pandemic management and other global crises, like what we see in Ukraine, and where this health response is very linked to the current crises. However, working with binding agreements between countries is also an important sign of reaching binding agreements to combat antibiotic resistance, AMR.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e879	First of all, thank the chairman of the Committee for raising this important issue, on which we together focus to a great extent on the Nordic Council. Combating antibiotic resistance has been and is high on the agenda of the welfare committee for a long time, where both the representative Troeen and I are sitting. The reality is that antibiotic resistance is one of our greatest health challenges globally. The pandemic has once again shown us that disease does not know borders, and therefore it is important that we do not allow the job of prevention to stop within our own borders. The Labour Party has long called for Norway to play a leading role in the fight against antibiotic resistance. Norway has the expertise, experience and resources to give us a unique starting point, as well as high global trust in Norway. The Stoltenberg II government already set up an expert group, with people from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, to account for antibiotic resistance. It ended with the final report ‘Antibiotic resistance — knowledge gaps, challenges and current actions’, completed in 2014. A revised version is available from 2020 onwards. It is true, as has been said, that in recent years the use of antibiotics has been greatly reduced in Norway, both for humans and for animals. That's good. In addition, we in Norway are good at using narrow-spectrum antibiotics when needed, while large parts of the world use a much wider range of antibiotics. To put it this way in Norwegian, our use of antibiotics is more targeted than it is in many other countries. Nevertheless, it is particularly important to keep this on the radar both in Norway and the Nordic countries, because as FHI says on its websites: ‘In Norway, we have been able to control the presence of antibiotic resistance so far, but the pressure for infection may gradually become so high that the measures to protect the health and health are no longer sufficient.’ That's serious. Furthermore, FHI points out in its latest report on antibiotic resistance: ‘The key actions will continue to be linked to reducing the need for antibiotics, increasing the level of compliance with antibiotic prescription and preventing the spread of resistant bacteria. However, we do not have enough knowledge of how to achieve this in the best possible way." There is also a need for new interventions to ensure that we have access to effective antibiotics in the future. One of the major challenges in today’s market for antibiotics is that they do not work. Both the World Health Organisation, the EU and the Norwegian health authorities are concerned about this. Older non-patent antibiotics disappear from the market because it no longer responds to producing and marketing them. This is a particular problem for Norway, which is then one of the few countries that actually use a lot of narrow-spectrum antibiotics. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear in its response and acknowledges the great challenge of antibiotic resistance, and that the Hurdal platform takes this in its full breadth. Because there are some ‘obs’ there, and one of them is that right now the antibiotic-resistant bacterium Shigella is spreading in Europe. Since September, it has been detected in Norway among six people. All these cases in Norway have been identified among men having sex with men, reporting to the Health Committee. This means that this is not a problem issue that is only at present far beyond our borders, but it is happening in Norway right now. Therefore, it is important that we are conscious of this at all times. Another important element, which we have also heard from our colleagues in the Nordic Council, is that there may seem to be a greater tendency to print antibiotics at digital medical consultations, and in particular to the private medical market. I don't know if it's as relevant here to countries, but it's an important aspect to bring with it now that digital medical services are also increasing in Norway. Norway and the Nordic region have good history of referring to international work in the field of health, in particular in the field of the spread of vaccines in poor countries. Therefore, it should be natural for Norway and the Nordic countries to take a leading role in combating antibiotic resistance globally. I'm glad the government says it will follow up, and I'm glad the government also says that we will do it in cooperation with our Nordic friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e904	Thanks to the interpellant, who takes up the signed favourite theme. After Kjersti Toppe was sacrificed into the government, no one is talking about this anymore, but now we're going on again. This is a matter that we will not be done with. The world needs new antibiotics, but we lack schemes to open up research, development and production, and we need to think again. The reality is that development needs to be swindled, unless we are at risk of being without effective instruments against dangerous bacteria. There have been mention of infectious diseases that can crack at us, but another side of this is that modern cancer surgery, modern surgery in general, transplant medicine – a lot of such fields – we can only end up with. We can end with modern cancer surgery without active antibiotics. I have stated several times that I am much more afraid of antibiotic resistance than of corona, and the figures in the Lancet article it has been referred to twice are clear: even under the corona we have lost more lives to antibiotic resistance than to the corona. I believe that this fight must take place on three fronts. We need to have proper and limited use — we have received that in Norway, the Netherlands and in a few other countries. We need to increase the focus on vaccines, both against diseases that often trigger the need for antibiotic treatment and against specific bacteria. We also need to develop new drugs that work on resistant bacteria, both new antibiotics and not least bacteriopathics, i.e. viruses that attack bacteria. Here our enemies become our friend. There's an example of Leknes, STIM, who is the world leader in bacteriology against salmon disease. There are principles that were widely used in Eastern bloc countries, which did not have so much access to antibiotics when the iron carpet was down. Poland, among others is far advanced in bacterio disciplines, in which I myself have great faith. I do not share the pessimism of some that it is not useful to develop new antibiotics because smart bacteria will quickly develop resistance. It is important to encourage the development of new antibiotics. In this question, we should not be blind to the situation we are in, because we are better off than most other countries. As much as we move around the world, the microbes do the same thing in and around us. There is a weakness in the Norwegian system that there is little flexibility in the models for purchasing drugs. Price and volume become determining factors, and innovation and development are rewarded or given too little emphasis. There is something that irritates me, because this is contrary to the pharmaceutical policy objectives, which must be weighed equally. This makes it difficult for someone to develop medicinal products, as their use will be limited, but the importance of preparedness will be high. Therefore, we need to find new and different mechanisms that provide better incentives for the development of new medicines. I have previously introduced the idea of a system similar to the so-called ‘light fusion’ system, which has been a success for the Norwegian oil industry. For the oil industry, the country has reduced the risk of development by quickly reimbursing tax credits on exploration costs, while at the same time taxing profits is high. I believe it is possible to apply this principle also to the pharmaceutical industry, of course with a corresponding sharing of any benefit. There we can see Israel, who already has these kinds of models in life science today. So one reimburses costs, and then one takes a "cut" of the profits of projects that reach the market. One contributing reason why so many different companies have invested in the development of vaccines against covid-19 was that early in the EU, in the United States and in some other countries, there were schemes that reduced the risk for those who started vaccine development. There are more than 50 different vaccine candidates who are under development, most of it is the commercial company that operates, but then the authorities have been so clear that they want to buy the products that they have taken some of the risks. Knowing that resistance is a bigger problem for the world than the corona, it indicates how huge this challenge is, and once we've made it clear in the world society that we're finding systems and funding models for vaccines, it has to be possible in other areas as well. Some developments give rise to optimism. We see a trend in which the development of drug use is higher on the political agenda. Models are being worked along such lines both in Norway and internationally, and the Council of State was also involved. It is a work that was started a few years ago. The new British model – then I don’t think of Lord O’Neill’s report – where the valuation of new antibiotics is also based on the preparedness value it has for society is interesting, and I would encourage the Minister of Health to look closely at it, because there is also the opportunity for business development in Norway. We have to learn and let ourselves be inspired by each other. It is good that the Nordic Council is committed to this, because the problem is global, and it needs to be resolved internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e932	Antibiotic resistance is a global threat to health and well-being. Both for humans and for animals, antibiotic resistance can lead to even simple infections becoming life-threatening. Today, diseases that could be a death sentence a hundred years ago are leaking with a pill cure. Most of us are lucky enough to avoid a cut or a wound developing into an infection and that we get blood poisoning. We can also recover from pneumonia relatively quickly. Nobody wants to go back to a time before antibiotics. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness Analysis of the Crisis Scenario from 2019 shows that, in addition to pandemic and drug shortages, disease outbreaks with antibiotic-resistant bacteria are among the most likely crisis scenarios that can affect Norway. In Norway, we have a low prevalence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and microbars in both humans and animals. A restrictive grip on the use and proper use of antibiotics has been important to avoid resistance. As several representatives have drawn up, we see that a lot of good work is being done in Norway using narrow-spectra antibiotics rather than broad-spectra. Using antibiotics that are effective against the bacterium or bacterium type that cause an infection, rather than antibiotics that act on many types of bacteria, is an important tool to prevent the development of resistance. Instead of giving broad spectrum antibiotics, we can use laboratory research to find out exactly what bacteria have led to the infection and what antibiotics will be effective. One challenge we in the Center Party are concerned about is that it is not profitable for producers to create a range of narrow-spectrum antibiotics because the big market does not demand it. There may be very unfortunate consequences if there is a rotation against more use of broad spectrum antibiotics, which in turn will lead to increased resistance. In particular, we have seen that this affects access to narrow-spectrum antibiotics for children, and the Center Party has been concerned that access to important drugs cannot be left to the market alone. However, I would remind you that there are still more people in the world who die of lack of antibiotics than of antibiotic resistant microbars. It's also an important perspective to have in the discussion. Norway has a good national AMR status in both humans and animals, but a combination of increased consumption and misuse of antibiotics, increased international trade, increased travel efficiency and the lack of development of new antibiotics may result in an increasing rate of development and spread of resistant bacteria, including in Norway. In line with the precautionary principle, it is important to delineate the development and spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria through targeted action against what we know today is driving this development. Antibiotics are a common resource that must be preserved, managed and developed jointly. For the Centre Party, it is important to have national and international efforts against antibiotic resistance. I'm glad the government says they should follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e951	I want to start by commending the Right to raise a very important matter. There is no doubt that antibiotic resistance is a major challenge not only to Norway but to the whole world. As the interpellant correctly points out, the WHO estimates that 700,000 people die each year of diseases resistant to antibiotics, and is estimated to be about 10 pst. These are estimated to be in the United States and the West. The numbers can also be even higher. A recent report from The Lancet magazine, which is referred to several times, suggests that as many as 1.2 million people died as a direct result of antibiotic-resistant infections in 2019. The number can actually be as high as 4.9 million, the researchers believe behind the report. These are pandemic numbers that should get the alarm to come. Fortunately, we have taken action in Norway. In Norway, authorities have taken action against antibiotic resistance, in particular through the protection of infectious diseases and the reduction and proper use of antibiotics, but also through vaccination programmes. It still doesn't make us resistant to this problem. We need to be aware that even if we are more vulnerable elsewhere in the world, we can quickly have major problems with resistant bacteria in Norway as well. We're going to thank the science for antibiotics. Without this medicine, diseases that now appear to be entirely debatable would still be fatal. There are few people with normal health who are worried today about whether they get throat infection or pneumonia. It wasn't like that before. Antibiotic resistance means that today’s diseases we see as small bacteria can potentially become much more dangerous. It means that we have to act before these diseases can threaten us again. I hope that we can jointly agree on finding good solutions for antibiotic resistance, in order to avoid a major new health crisis. We owe it to those who come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e966	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting this on the agenda, for the fight against antibiotic resistance is one of humanity's greatest and most acute challenges. Fresh figures this year show that the situation is even worse than the World Health Organisation has previously estimated. Already more than 1.2 million people die of resistant microbes per year. Evolution is faster than we've feared. The development of resistance is not only a health problem but will also have major societal and economic consequences. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, antibiotic resistance over a decade could lead to a decline in global GDP of 3.4 billion. US dollars and force 24 million people into extreme poverty. Effective management of antibiotic resistance is therefore a prerequisite for achieving the UN sustainability target. Norway is the best class of antibiotic use in food production and health, but unfortunately the problem of antibiotic resistance cannot be solved at national level. Like covid and other pandemics with global proportions, the resistant microbes do not know any national boundaries, and the challenge must be solved through coordinated global efforts. Unfortunately, in the short term, individual countries can serve not to address the problems adequately. As experts have long pointed out, there is therefore a need for stronger international regulation to limit over-consumption, misuse and misuse of antibiotics. Such legislation does not exist today, and Norway can and should lead in such work, preferably with our Nordic neighbours, who also take the situation very seriously. Norway is one of the best countries in the world when it comes to low use of antibiotics in agriculture. We can be proud of this. We therefore have the very best assumptions for being a driving force internationally to reduce the use of antibiotics. It's not only good for the food we eat, but also for the health of the world's population. What we can do better in Norway is think of nutrition and value creation in everything we do. Developing methods to produce food with low antibiotic use is, for example: Which can be the cheapest and best for any country – if we get the other countries with us. By being the first to deliver the best solutions, Norway can go ahead and make other countries look at the opportunities offered by sustainable production. It is a leading role Norway should take. We have an excellent track record on international diplomacy in the service of the environment. When antibiotic resistance was discussed in Stortinget last June, there was a broad political consensus that Norway should work towards international regulation. There was a majority in favour of the proposal of the then government to include access to effective antibiotics in the preparation of a health preparedness treaty, under the auspices of the World Health Organisation. In addition, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left presented a separate minority proposal that the government should work for an international Convention on Antibiotics. Now it has the trio majority in Stortinget, and they should then take responsibility for following up this. I wonder very much how the government will follow up this in international work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e979	Antibiotic resistance, as the representative Troen says, is a problem, also in Norway. It may not be the largest in here, but internationally and to a greater extent in developing countries. The government has said in the Hurdals platform that this is a priority. The Government is therefore required to introduce stricter requirements for the labelling of food in respect of both the country of origin and production methods, such as: use of antibiotics, and — as the Kjerkol State Council agreed — develop a new strategy to combat antibiotic resistance. This is important to be led var. In the short term, this is not a major problem for us, but given that antibiotic resistance can be linked to over one million deaths worldwide every year, this is about solidarity and international cooperation. Cooperation in the Nordic region would then make sense, insofar as it is also a matter of taking an international lead in this respect, among other things. World Health Organisation. It is in the hands of developing countries where antibiotic use is higher than in our country, this is a major problem today and a development that needs to be slowed down. We need stronger international cooperation to deal with infectious diseases in general. It is essential that we also develop, produce and distribute vaccines. It will also contribute to effective international cooperation to halt the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The development of industrial activities in the field and the involvement of the pharmaceutical industry here will also create jobs, and we can have a hand on the steering wheel in the process of reducing the use of broad spectrum antibiotics and increasing the use of specialised antibiotics. Here, the state can have a central role. This is important for the Workers' Party. When the government takes this into account, I am sure that the representative in his interpellation is also central to the department's assessments and proposals for a new strategy to prevent antibiotic resistance in Norway and the Nordic countries, and that we can therefore also take the lead in this field internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e995	I am very pleased that very many representatives have an interest in what is the responsibility of the Foreign Affairs Committee and that there are no limits to the responsibilities of the committees. So to the post: I want to thank the interpellant Troeen for raising this very important question. Antibiotic resistance is rightly referred to as the ‘silent pandemic’. Looking back on the medical revolution, effective antibiotics are among the most important innovations, in line with anesthesia. When resistance develops, we lose one of the most important tools we have in modern medicine medicine. The fight against resistant microbes is a global challenge and international cooperation is a prerequisite for reducing resistance and deaths associated with antibiotic resistance. Norway, together with the Nordic countries, is among the countries that should be most central to meeting this challenge. A common Nordic action plan should be clear. Our countries have a highly developed medical competence, and we are among the countries that have been early aware of this problem. It is also in the Nordic region that unnecessary use of antibiotics is lower than in many places in the world. One question I want to raise is the global dimension of antibiotic resistance. As with all the pandemics, it is not combated one place until it is controlled anywhere. It should therefore be part of Norway’s development policy efforts. This is not simply because there are strict legislation and criteria for obtaining UN-approved Norwegian development assistance. Like many aspects of the climate problem, some health-related challenges, such as pandemics and antibiotic resistance, are not easily included in Norwegian aid. It would have been an advantage if there was more flexibility in the system. This applies to so-called global public goods. It is not easy to change a large and multinational system, but it does not mean that there is no need to try. I conclude by urging the government to look at the possibility of participating in all available arenas to meet the problem of antibiotic resistance, not only with the Minister of Health, but with the entire government, because it affects several departments. It includes the possibility that parts of the development budget may go, inter alia: for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1014	Norwegian agriculture and food production have a long tradition. This tradition has led us today to have the safest food in the world. Here we have diversity in farm sizes, and we have relatively small ratios, which have led to Norwegian food being of good quality and can be called a very safe food. Norway is among the lowest in the world when it comes to milligrams of antibiotics per kilogram of biomass, i.e. meat, to put it simply. Studies show that Norway is also very low when it comes to finding resistant bacteria in Norwegian food and Norwegian livestock farming. Think that in Norway we have a system that is unusual in many other countries. In Norway we treat individuals, we do not treat large masses. This is because in Norway we have relatively small production units, where food producers can easily follow up on each individual animal. This is a special system from a world perspective, but in Norway, of course. We should be proud of that, and we should be proud of the Norwegian farmer who works every day to keep down the use of antibiotics. It is gratifying that the Right is concerned with antibiotic resistance. Then they should also be concerned with a living agriculture throughout the country. In Norway, we do not want to use more antibiotics in food production than is absolutely necessary. Animals are treated when they are ill, and not preventively, as we see in many other countries. This is positive, in the light of antibiotic resistance. Norwegian agriculture contributes every day to ensuring that Norwegian animals and food producers have low antibiotic production. This shows that the problem of antibiotic resistance has been addressed, and that the government takes the problem seriously. It is essential that we work to ensure that antibiotics remain a medicine used where necessary, and that it is important for good animal health, antibiotic resistance and human health. Continuing to ensure small agricultural conditions, where producers can follow-up individuals and treat disease in concrete terms, is crucial here and therefore important for us in the Centre Party – as one of several measures to combat antibiotic resistance. Therefore, we will be involved in ensuring good and safe agriculture throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1027	Thank you for a broad-spectrum political participation in the debate, I think that has been incredibly nice to be on. I think that the major national, Nordic and global challenges of antibiotic resistance have been very well highlighted in the debate, and I thank you for that. I think it was a little interesting what the representative Vasvik said about what we should be aware of, namely whether there is any greater tendency to print antibiotics using digital meetings. At the same time, I have to say that I think we all on behalf of Norwegian doctors, Norwegian dentists and Norwegian veterinarians should be very proud of the awareness we have in Norway about the reduced use of antibiotics. Even I had a terrible tooth infection a few weeks ago, and that little detail makes you think about how important that medicine is. As Sveinung Stensland was quite right in his post, it's important too much more than what we might think of as the normal infections we get. It is also very important to be able to carry out large, important operations. Norway has also contributed to the development of new antibiotics. Several have faced the challenges of protecting the old antibiotics, but also protecting the narrow-spectrum antibiotics and their production. It is incredibly important when fewer countries stop using narrow-spectrum antibiotics. Then the supply chain becomes very vulnerable, and it has been important for the right-wing government to ensure supply, so that the Norwegian population has access to these very central drugs. Several have also stressed that we are well prepared and well rusted at national level. It's good to know. But the fact that we have control nationally and Nordicly is not enough, however, when we know that the world is getting smaller and smaller, and resistant bacteria have never had better conditions to move on than they have now. This is precisely why it is important that we continue together the important work that I feel Norway has done in recent years to fight this fight against an antibiotic resistance that can really be one of our greatest challenges in the future. We will follow closely that the new government also prioritises this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1038	I think the interpellant summed up this broad-spectrum debate very well. There were a lot of parties that took the word, and it shows that there is a broad and good commitment in this room to what is our greatest common health threat. There is already extensive cooperation between the Nordic countries on a lot, including antibiotic resistance. It is important when developing common positions for international negotiations, and it is also important when we meet our own needs through the purchase of medicines for their own people and their own patients. And we're going to keep developing that. This is a rapidly growing problem in the world, and it poses a serious threat to our global health. When the perspective is directed towards the current crises, it is an alarm – as the representative Sveinung Stensland pointed out – that even during the pandemic, more people have died of antibiotic resistance than of the corona. We have to do multiple things at once. The international agenda is strong, the focus on cooperation is strong, and it is important that we, as governments, use these channels and the processes that are going on, to also raise this issue. A few weeks ago, I was at an informal ministerial meeting of EU Health Ministers, where health cooperation in the EU and response capacities related to health crises were on the agenda, but where antibiotic resistance and AMR were also raised by several countries, and this promises for the continuation. We live longer, there are several with chronic diseases, more with weakened immune systems, more who are undergoing surgery, and thus more who can get infections that require antibiotic treatment. We need to ensure that this continues to be treated, and that is why it is so important that we keep the pressure up. When there's touching consensus, we have to make sure that there's no dead water, and that's why we have to keep challenging each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1061	That being the case, it is no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1077	It was a nice introduction. Over many years, tolls have evolved from financing road projects, financing a tunnel or a bridge to being extended to a system that we use, among others. for the investment and operation of public transport, the construction of bicycle and pedestrian paths and much, much more. The use of tolls has thus changed from a method of financing road construction to other effects, such as traffic management, traffic reduction, different driving patterns, environmental and climate considerations. I have not had the aim of raising this issue in order to have a discussion about whether we are in favour of or against tolls, but to raise the issue of the effects of the purposes that have now been introduced. As an example: when prices are raised, fewer people use the roads and drive there, which means that the funding falls among others. the disappearance of public transport; When the revenue to finance public transport falls, the supply becomes faster and the users are forced back to the car. On the State side, electric car policy has become an essential part of the toll package. The introduction of measures to increase sales of zero-emission vehicles and, in particular, electric cars has been a major success and has led to sales of more than 400000 electric cars, corresponding to 15 pst. of the car park. The country has many billions of lower revenues annually because of different tax exemptions granted in the use and purchase of an electric car. Reduced payments in toll projects are among the benefits of using an electric car. This has worked. We see many examples of island communities and commuter sections where the electric car share falls on the roof, with the result that the revenues fall dramatically, and fewer have to pay more. What do you do when your income falls? Well, then you can set the prices, with the effect that everything gets reinforced even more. There are many examples of how this turns out. In the North Järn urban environment package, electricity vehicles have resulted in a reduced income of 170 million. kr in the last two years. With an increasing electric car share already the assumption for 2022 is over 100 million. kr, and it is rising. This poses major challenges for the financing of the package, and people are forced to make a choice. This is where I hope to get some answers and clarifications from the Council of State today. For example, a signal that the Council of State can give is: to be clear that the level of ambition in the various packages must be lowered, one must remove projects, one must reduce the scope of projects and build less, or he can send a signal that one must increase the toll, so that even more people buy an electric car and the revenue will decrease even more, or he can eliminate the electric car benefits, which I have understood the government does not want, or he can compensate for the lack of revenue arising from state requirements, which is a direct consequence of the desired state policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1090	I want to start by pointing out that all toll projects are based on local uplifting and anchoring. Toll projects are not promoted for the Stortinget without prior municipal and county treatment, where local and regional integration is proposed. This ensures anchoring and provides local and regional responsibility for toll collection. The size has opened up so that local authorities can give from 50 pst. to 100 pst. Discount for zero-emission vehicles, i.e. a zero-emission vehicle shall pay up to 50 pst. of normal axis. In line with current toll policy, toll tariffs are set in the context of local policy decisions. This must be the case if we are to ensure that the toll system has a toll build-up locally. Lower fare or exemption for zero-emission vehicles in toll projects is one of several advantages for zero-emission vehicles. Tax advantages, benefits in use and technological developments have given an increasing share of electric cars and have also led Norway to a special position as regards the development of zero-emission vehicles in the passenger car segment. In 2021 was almost 65 pst. of the cars sold in Norway electric cars, and almost every six cars on Norwegian roads are now an electric car. A transition to non-emission means of transport is essential for achieving Norway’s climate objectives and obligations. The transport sector accounts for about 60 pst. of the non-quota emissions and must therefore account for a large part of the emission reductions in the future. Electric car policy has also led to an increasing number of electric cars passing through the bombings. In the major urban areas, there has been a strong increase in the proportion of electric car passages in the bombing in recent years. As the representative of Halleland points out, this may lead to reduced toll revenue, on the north of the Järn as in other urban areas. Lower tariffs for zero-emission vehicles apply in all toll systems and as such the situation is not unique to the North-Jear. In Oslo, for example, there are renegotiations on Oslopackakt3 and the large share of electric cars and thus lower revenues is a challenge that will have to be addressed in the renegotiations. The zero growth target is followed up by the long-term urban growth agreements, which include both road and public transport, bicycles, corridors, land-use measures and restrictive measures for car traffic, such as tolls and, where appropriate, parking restrictions. The solution chosen shall contribute to reducing the need for car-based transport and to facilitating the mobility, cycling and use of public transport by more people. In urban growth agreements, three levels of government – municipalities, county councils and the state – go together to solve the challenges and challenges. The work on urban growth agreements addresses both the need for and the potential for cooperation across levels of government and agencies in a situation where overall use of instruments is necessary to achieve a common objective. All three levels of government contribute their instruments and resources within their own area of responsibility in a comprehensive way to achieve the zero growth target. It is not the case, therefore, that if we encounter problems in the agreement, the state will have to solve these problems alone. This has to be solved in collaboration. The state is heavily involved with funding for urban growth agreements. In the urban growth agreements concluded between the parties to the Nord-Jären, the country contributes about 13.4 billion. kr during the contract period, which runs from 2019 to 2029. The State resources shall include, inter alia: go to the partial financing of the Bus Road, which is within the 50/50 scheme, for walking, cycling and collective actions and for station and hub development along the railway. The State funds also include grants for reduced ticket prices for public transport and reward funds that can be used for the operation of public transport. In addition, the portfolio includes several major national road projects, E39 Ålgård-Hove, E39 Smiene-Harestad and Rv. 509 Transport corridor west. Through the urban growth agreement, Nord-Jären also receives an annual grant from the state as compensation for removing the rush time charge. Nord-Jären is the only urban area to receive such a grant, a subsidy which is based on the toll agreement of the previous Government and which can hardly be said to benefit traffic regulation. The representative of Halleland mentions government orders as a justification for compensating the country for lower revenues. Then I would like to remind the representative of Halleland that transport and urban policy is far more than state requirements. The urban growth agreement is meant to be a place where these challenges are discussed and hopefully solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1113	I don't know if I'm going to say that I'm disappointed with the answer to the Council of State, because it was probably an answer that was expected. He could have done it in a very short time just saying that one is not going to do any of the world's things. When you talk about the fact that there are no leads, the completely modified conditions are from the time the package was adopted locally and adopted at Stortinget, and to the conditions that are today. So it's the state that wants to promote a policy that's being pursued through these toll packages, that's not about the North-Jear, it's about all the packages that are. This also applies to individual projects. We've seen island communities deploying tolls, where the electric car share is hanging on the roof and one has to extend the packages, perhaps others have to pay more for it. When one then gives changed terms and conditions that lead to that we get someone who pays less, I had really hoped that the government would at least have recognised that this was a problem issue. One imposes a dependency on a traffic that one does not want. Then you get something that doesn't work, because then you get a measure that will limit the traffic. Limitation of traffic results in lower revenues and part of the revenue is used to do what is to be followed up, inter alia. public transport, and then has a problem financing public transport. And to sustainability, as many call it today: I would say that we have a toll system today that is not sustainable. I hope that we can have a good debate, if the Council of State is in charge of the policy on which the representatives of the government parties have an opinion on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1124	Tolls have several purposes. Tolls provide stable revenues that can contribute to the financing of major projects and actions across the country. Tolls ensure the realisation of both roads, bridges, tunnels and measures for collective, bicycle and gangways. There are measures that could have been difficult to achieve without tolls. Tolls in urban areas have both financing and traffic regulation as their aim and are a central tool in urban policy. Urban areas making up the urban population are committed to implementing actions within their own area of responsibility that build up under the zero growth target. In urban packages, a more flexible tariff system is also open by allowing fares to vary according to time per day and to vary according to the environmental characteristics of the vehicle. It is important to achieve the zero growth target for passenger car transport, and it also allows traffic management, so that the capacity of existing installations is better used. This can improve the environment, expose the need for new projects or capacity extensions, and improve resource use. As the representative of Halleland points out, revenue from car-related taxes has been reduced in recent years. This is due, inter alia, to: tax relief on a zero-emission vehicle. The same is true in many toll projects, which means that there are more and more zero-emission vehicles running through the booms, and this can result in lower revenues. The urban growth agreements and urban packages financed by tolls are based on portfolio management. This is an important concept, which I believe the representative and other representatives are well aware of. This means that if you have cost increases or loss of income, it has to be handled within the portfolio. If something becomes too expensive or the toll revenue is lower than intended, a different priority must be given. Cost-reduction measures or cut-offs in the portfolio will then have to be considered. This gives incentives to find good solutions that are not oversized, and we get as much as possible back for the money being invested. If we say that the state should compensate with increased state resources when revenue is lowered and/or projects are more expensive than initially thought, then the good incentive is not to find cost-reducing solutions. It is also open to the use of the average tariff for toll projects. The average tariff is a measure to reduce the uncertainty associated with the revenues of the tolling company. The average tariff of a toll project is the average income per passage taking into account the discount, exemption and distribution of vehicles paying different tariffs, including the effect of exemptions and discounts on the zero-emission vehicle. Therefore, the tariff may be adjusted en-route during the recovery period so that the toll revenue is as intended. I have great faith in finding solutions in the agreements that enable them to carry out their projects in Northern Ireland and other cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1137	Interpellant is right that most political parties in Stortinget have had an active electric car policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Urban growth agreements have been important to achieve the zero growth target of the EEA and, as the Council of State says, are an agreement between three levels of government, where one solves the problems together and prioritises action together. Fortunately, the Progress Party chose to continue the urban environment agreements of the red-green government and expanded the number of municipalities around the major cities that joined new urban growth agreements, when they took over the Ministry of Transport in 2013. We experience that several municipalities want urban growth agreements, based on the fact that the state contributes to, among other things. increased provision of collective services in municipalities. The Progress Party has had the Minister for Transport for seven of the last nine years and has had and has taken the opportunity to influence policies in the field of transport, including urban growth. There are two purposes of tolls. One is to co-finance important transport projects and to promote them, so that they get moving faster. The second is to limit traffic in order to improve accessibility and reduce car traffic in urban areas, as is the case in urban growth agreements. It's an important theme the interpellant addresses. The toll revenue has gone down and will go down the next few years, so we have to make some choices in the future. At some point, perhaps the current exemption from electric cars should be phased out, and in many places half of the tariff has already been imposed on electric cars. When the urban growth agreements were concluded, the Workers' Party wanted to contribute up to 70 pst. for large collective projects, while under the Progress Party Council up to 50 pst. This actually amounted to 6 billion. kr, which we could have had for good collective projects. We have also asked for new digital, technological solutions to be explored. We want to solve the challenges of society and have to find something that makes this fair when we are going to develop urban growth agreements in the future to achieve our climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1152	The interpellant raises an important question, and the Right shares the concern that we do not have a sustainable funding system for our collective investment. Today more than seven out of ten new cars are electric cars, and in the government we set a goal of reaching 100 pst. by 2025. This we're well on track to reach. The result is not only large emission reductions in Norway but also in the rest of the world. Norway’s investment has helped to make it cheaper and more attractive to buy, develop and produce electric cars and battery technologies globally. However, it is clear that increasing electricity car shares are a major challenge for the financing of urban growth agreements, not only in the north but in all cities with urban growth agreements. The zero growth rate for car passenger transport is a well-established target, which has been achieved by several people, in the major urban areas. But there's a paradox embedded in the zero growth measure. If you succeed, you don't have money for the collective investment we need. At the same time, while tolls contribute to achieving the zero growth target, there will be fewer resources to build and strengthen the collective offer further, in line with Norway’s climate objectives. So our government put down a sample that looked at future revenue in the bombings, so the issue is well solved. If nothing is done, the sample in the report estimates that the average annual revenue from the bombings will decrease by 23 pst, corresponding to 1.4 billion. kr, until 2030. At the same time, the crossings in the bombing rings increase on average by 25 pst. The main reason for falling tolls and increased traffic is exemptions and discounts in the electric vehicle bombings and the growing electricity car share, which is, after all, a good thing. I know best about the challenges in Bergen, especially related to urban railway funding. The mountains, as we know, have gone from being Norway's electric car capital to becoming the world's electric car capital. For Bergen, not only are new projects to be financed. There is also a lot of old debt in our package. When the first stage of construction of the city railway came into place and the Workers' Party crashed, the government contribution was only 8 p.m. Fortunately, this was significantly adjusted when Erna Solberg became prime minister – first to 50 pst., so on to 66 pst. But further expansion towards the Füllingsdalen has been reduced, and the Workers' Party has unfortunately cut out a complete stop to the Füllingsdalen. The project also seems to be going with large exceedances now. There is also a trasé to Åsane in the northern part of the city, but how all this is to be paid for is still in blue. There is also a strong local consensus that the toll roof has been reached. The right is behind the zero growth target. At the same time, I believe that there is a basis for looking further at the paradox we have created, and looking at the device in the future. The main challenge for cities now working on new projects is that the Hurdal platform is unclear on which projects will receive 50 pst. and who can expect 70 pst., as promised by the Workers' Party in the elections – or does the collective effort in cities disappear in favour of setting up urban growth packages instead? The cities at least expect the government to clarify how much the government intends to contribute in the future, so I end up with a question: 70 pst. State participation in the financing of the City Railway to Åsane?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1167	Thank you to the inter-pellant, who is raising an important debate on the sustainability of the funding system for urban growth agreements. It is important to include in this debate, as the Council of State also pointed out, that one must also take account of local circumstances. That's also why a local can choose to have 50 pst. or 100 pst. exemption from tolls for electric cars in the urban growth agreements. In Tromsø, for example, we have made a local decision that we should have 50 pst. exemption and not 100 pst, which is what is now inside. I also believe that this is an important issue to look at now when to conclude new urban growth agreements. The urban growth agreements were first for the five major urban areas, but when the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left were in government, we made sure to expand, so that more municipalities and regions were given the opportunity to have urban growth agreements. One of them is Tromsø. The Solberg government also contributed to a real commitment to the reward scheme for public transport, which has contributed to Tromsø’s reaching 60-70 million. kr per year to bet on better bus departures and cheaper bus prices in our area. I want to record one more thing. It's about the city councils for Tromsø, which I've brought up with the councils in the past. Tromsø is ready for negotiations on an urban emergency speech. In June last year, the Solberg government started work on creating a mandate, which was a draft for the ministry, and which was clear in September, but still one has not got these negotiations started, despite the fact that we are talking here about the largest city in North Norway, which really needs to solve some of the traffic challenges we have in Tromsø and in North Norway. So that mandate I hope one gets started, and that one starts negotiations and does not help to postpone this any longer. To use some transport terminology: get the full speed of the work on the mandate for the negotiations on Tromsø, so that one actually gets started. Then I can also recall the position of a comment as a treated urban package for Tromsø in June last year. Then, among other things, he said: The Labour Party and the Center Party that they had to start negotiations on a city capital speech for Tromsø immediately, but still one has not started those negotiations. Then I also hope that the Council of State will look at how one could possibly increase the funds for urban growth agreements. In the election campaign, the Center Party was out and promised 10 billion. kr to Tromsø alone. 10 B.C.E. kr is the same as one entered the NTP for all five other urban areas, which are also inside it. But it wasn't unusual for the Center Party to use the election campaign to hand out unrealistic promises that they can't keep. Sandra Borch, Minister of Agriculture, who was the top candidate for the Central Party in the election campaign, commented on the promise of 10 billion. kr and said that this would be a discussion in government. That's what she said as State Council about two weeks ago. So I'm very excited about the discussion that is now going to be in the government. Tromsø's gonna get the 10 grand. The crowns or not, and how realistic is it from the Central Party to the largest city in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1180	Thank you very much to the interpellant Halleland, who is travelling an important matter. Actually, the Storting should have been full, because this is about so much, much more. When the Minister for Transport answers that it is decided locally and desired locally, and that it is in a way a trinity at the end, that is quite right. However, it is not clear that it is not the municipalities or county councils that govern car policy and industrial policy in Norway. It's this house that decides. It is absolutely right that it is the desire of all batches to provide zero-emission cars, but it is the current government, with the support of SV, that increased the taxes on petrol and diesel cars now, which means that fewer people buy it. That's when you get the paradox that Halleland addresses, and that really everyone should be concerned about. When the government and this house agree to any new agreement, you must have it with you. It's actually the ‘Luxury trap’. We cannot sit still and just watch and believe it goes over, because when the policy works much faster than you could imagine, you are in – as a state, as a party – driving the projects to deficits. It doesn't go up in the end – I think we all agree, if we dare say so. When you say in this house that more people want new agreements, you should be careful – you should be so honest and say that if the policies that are now in place work and continue at that pace, it is a terriblely poor solution to finance. Then you agree to push the municipalities and the county councils into disrepute. I think a lot of us know that. Then, as Halleland also points out, as far as the agreements are concerned, I fully agree with the opinion of the Council of State: you have to go into the projects, scale down and see if you can reduce costs by cutting other things, but you might want to do that at an earlier time. There is no doubt that in the urban growth agreements and the urban packages, Rolls Royce solutions have been used in several areas, such as accidents. You could have solved many of the projects in these cities in a far, far more reasonable way. I think we should be honest about that – we should all take responsibility for it, because we are part of the agreements. I think Halleland had deserved a better response from the Council of State and this house, simply. Because what do we do in the future? It can't be that you just push it back to the municipality and county council and say it's their problem. No, the state is in it - the state is in it as one of the three parties. Then the same state must also be involved in compensating, precisely because – as I said – it is not the municipalities and county councils that have adopted higher taxes on petrol and diesel cars. It is not the municipalities and county councils that have said they want electric cars and zero-emission cars, it is the state that has done. That's why the state is changing the game rules for what was the prerequisites of the previous packages. So I hope that the Council of State is a little bit clearer and a little bit more humble about the problems you yourself have with creating for these cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1193	Thank you for a good and interesting debate so far. I want to add a few thoughts about the job we're going to do together in the future. Now we've just had the corona and the shutting down of society, and it has contributed to a development, among other things. in the working life that we knew was going to come at some point, has been accelerated, in the sense that some of the employees who have the opportunity have been able to use digital technology and work from home. It will affect the transport pattern and needs in the future. One thing the previous government should have praised for in-trafficking, although I disagreed with very much of what the right-wing government did, was the setting up of the expert committee on the use of technology for sustainable mobility and mobility in the future. One of the main points of the expert committee is that many of the largest commercial investment and use of money takes place because we want to avoid a small problem, for example. travelling to work on Monday morning when it is the largest queue. But when that transport needs decrease, it will be possible to make things smarter and more reasonable, and we will get further for the money overall. I hope that at Stortinget we can go into the future together and really look at how we get sensible money spent together looking at this house. The Stordalen has now come up with a statement that everyone here has to take responsibility. That's good. The representative, Leirtrø, was clear that the Progress Party has had a great share of responsibility. It is true that they have been with the steering wheel both in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Transport for many years. But now that we can look forward together in this area, I think all the inhabitants will benefit. We can then get better use of money while reducing emissions. One last, concrete point: what has been happening to a large extent now is that some of those who have been collective users have become drivers through the policies that we have pursued together, and that causes collectives to also face financing challenges. We have to look at this together at a time when the collective societies also wear off before, because of fewer travellers and failing ticket revenue after the corona.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1204	I would say I very much agree with the representative Stordalen that I had deserved a better answer. I asked for a clear answer, and unfortunately I think I got a clear answer, that one has not intended to do so terribly much with the problem. I'm a little uncertain as to whether one has the same perception of these problems in the government, as one has on the Stortinget, because what the representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen raised was the whole problem: we have a problem that we see getting stronger for every day that goes, for every year that goes, and for every project we adopt. That's why we have to grab hold of it. Today, when we see drivers moving away from the car and traveling collectively, then ending it and sitting in the electric car, so that car traffic increases again, it's something about the system that's wrong. I hope the Council of State sees that too. Nils Kristen Sandtrøen was within several important things from the policy of the previous government, and I hope that the new government will continue, which is about looking at new solutions, building a more efficient way and getting more money back. The previous government did a good job in many areas and was also able to achieve results from it. I'm an opponent of tolls. I think it's a wrong way to finance our roads and infrastructure in general. One of the reasons why I'm opposed to it is precisely what we're witnessing today, that is, that there are projects to be funded by a traffic that is not wanted. This is a problem that I hope the Council of State will take along. I hope he will engage in dialogue with the various local forces behind the packages, to find out how to do this. There's been no shortage of election vows. I think there are many out in the regions who have expectations that solutions come from a new government that creates predictability, because the problem is that there is a great uncertainty out there considering how to implement the plan – the packages – that have become through hard work and many compromises. Now you see that it cracks — one can’t finance it — and one gets into trouble and creates uncertainty by now sending a signal to local politicians to reduce their projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1220	At least I have to remind the representative Halleland that the starting point for the interpellation was whether I was going to compensate for the lack of revenue in the bombings. That was the starting point for the interpellation. But besides that, I think we have had a good debate, where we have raised many different issues related to the situation we are currently in. But there's a slightly different debate than the one that was invited to the initial. I record that the representative is not satisfied with the answer, but at the same time I got the brilliance from his party colleague, the representative Stordalen, for parts of the answer – he fully agreed with me – so I get a little confused, at a slightly higher level, after we have conducted the debate. It is true, as has been said, that it is the Storting that has led the discount schemes, but I have no idea that it has also not been well anchored in the cities and locally when these schemes for discounts for electric cars have been adopted in their time. It is also important for me to consider what several people have been dealing with, namely that this government has a different policy in terms of urban growth. We've said we're going to go in the direction of a 70/30 device on the big projects. We will of course come back to what such a device will look like, but when the state enters at some point with a larger amount, it will mean that local parties take a smaller part of the bill. This could mean releasing tolls, which can be applied locally to other urban growth agreements that build up under the zero growth target. Then it's right, as the representative from the Right was in, that an expert committee was set up under the previous government that looked at how to deal with the electric car benefits in a long-term perspective. They pointed out, quite correctly, that there would be falling incomes and that it would give rise to challenges. But I have not registered that the previous government did anything about this, in the form of concrete amendments. You can't have done that, because then we wouldn't have been in this discussion right now. What the sample also pointed to was going into a discussion about how we set this up in a future perspective, namely road pricing. I think that's interesting too. And with reference to what the representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen said, we have a clear mandate from Stortinget to work on that. Then we have to be willing to look at the whole use of the instrument, and of course the government will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1235	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1251	Education is the key to self-realization. It is also the basis for the sustainable growth, independence and progress of a country. And when I look back at our time in government under Erna Solberg, there's one area I find special reason to be proud of. It's that we prioritised education as a developmental policy objective. Earlier this week, we marked the Women's Day. It is an important reminder that it is especially important for young women. Investing in education globally is an investment in the future of girls. Too many places in the world are the only future girls have ahead of them, impunity and coercion. Education gives them the opportunity to live a life of freedom. We, as a country, also have to follow this objective. Through UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 4 in Norway, we have committed ourselves to work to ensure inclusion, justice, good education and the promotion of lifelong learning for all. We are facing a world that is changing radically. Today, all eyes are focused on urgent needs in Ukraine and the condemnation of the Russian invasion. It must not blind us to the many other crises we face, for crises play together and reinforce each other. It concerns war, food security, health and the need to invest in global education. One of the unfortunate effects of the pandemic is that children’s education has been affected. UNICEF returns an equivocal image. In 2019, 258 million children and young people were out of school. About 617 million children and young people did not gain basic skills in reading and mathematics, and two thirds of these went to school. So the covid pandemic came, and by January this year, 616 million children and young people were hit by the fact that schools were totally or partially shut down. In the past, we have raised questions about the government's down-priority of education in development policy, especially in relation to the allocation of the Global Partnership for Education, the GPE. The government has implemented both large cuts in the current year’s allocations to the GPE and cancelled Norway’s long-standing commitment, which had a total build-up behind it. This affects the world’s schoolchildren, but also places Norway’s reputation as a credible aid partner in a bad light. Let me mention a very concrete and current page at GPE. Ukraine is one of the countries in which the IPE plans to start — a work that started before the current crisis and the war now. The current crisis will make it even more important to have the support of GPE in the reconstruction of the education system, and GPE can become a very important supporter in the future. It has not been clear how the government intends to fulfil Norway’s responsibility for global education. I hope that the Council of State in this inter-pelling debate will be able to give a better response to how Norway will in the future discharge our responsibilities for this important area of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1270	Thank you, Mr Schou, for raising this important issue. But let me first point out at the same time, as I've done a number of times in this room, that one of the premises of the representative's interpellation is unexplained. We are continuing education aid at the same high level as the previous government, i.e. a double from the 2013 level. The government has not cut into GPE support. No one – and this is important – has broken binding agreements with the GPE. The representative of Schou asks for the most appropriate measures for Norway to contribute to the provision of good education to the largest possible number of children in the world. It is a very important debate, which takes the quality of our Norwegian efforts further, and I thank the representative for that. Norway is the largest contributor to the UNICEF thematic fund for education. UNICEF helps to strengthen education systems, girls’ education, education for the most vulnerable groups of children and young people, such as children and young people with disabilities, and training in crisis and conflict. Through civil society organisations, we help children and young people, and especially vulnerable groups, who are difficult to reach, to go to school. Through direct support to organisations and authorities at country level, we contribute to ensuring educational provision and capacity building so that authorities are better able to provide good education to all children. Support for education through civil society and bilateral training assistance to partner countries is maintained. More than half of children who do not attend school today live in a country marked by crisis and conflict. Education Cannot Wait is working to provide these children with schooling. We therefore want to maintain support for the fund at a high level, and at the same time we have taken on the role of supporting the Education Cannot Wait Filling Conference. In this way, we contribute to the increased funding of the fund. We know that school food helps kids get to school and stay at school, and that good nutrition increases the learning potential. That's why we're increasing support for school food. We recently signed an agreement with the World Food Programme in this area. This government is concerned with the right of women and girls to determine their own bodies and lives. The government is therefore increasing the allocation of sexual and reproductive health and rights. We are increasing support for sexuality education, family planning, prevention and safe abortions. This initiative contributes to the completion of schooling by several girls. Norway was also recently host to the Global Disability Summit. Included education was one of the main themes of the summit. A number of commitments came in, and the government brought work on inclusive education a long way further. We also need to see education in context. Lifting the level of knowledge in developing countries must go hand in hand with business development and job creation. This is a formidable challenge, not least on the African continent, with its large and growing youth coals. What are we educating for? Is it unemployment or decent jobs? If you do not succeed here, large groups of frustrated young people with competence but no prospects can quickly become a destabilizing force. Finally, let me share an experience from my journey to Malawi now recently. I visited a private dairy funded in part by Norfund. Some 10,000 local small users now deliver milk to the dairies. It has given them better income and greater predictability. A small user told me quite uninvited that he was so happy that he now got the money to buy school uniform and secure his children's education. There are many ways to achieve the goal of quality education for everyone, but the ambition is shared. We need to work widely with development, we need to work in a contextual way, and we need to recognise that many bets need to work together to ensure that children are well educated.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1293	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I believe that the government is not clear enough in which direction it wants Norway to go, on this important issue. It is quite clear that education loses under this government, among other things. that climate finance is tripled, and in the Nations of 4 March, we could read a very specific statement that the government is increasing support for agriculture and taking it from education. The climate crisis leads to many consequences and also threatens children’s right to learn. Before the pandemic, it was estimated that 75 million children get their education stopped every year, among other things. due to drought and flooding. Then it's a shame the government puts this up against each other. This is a huge lack of funding. The report from Redd Barna shows that a quarter of all education systems in the world are on the verge of collapse. Governments say they want to maintain a high level of education of about 3.4 billion. kr. It's just hard to see. The letter of assignment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Norad includes an allocation of 2,2 billion. kr. Where's the remaining 1.2 billion going? Can the Council of State solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1302	I also want to take advantage of this occasion and this important debate to actually highlight that this is a field where we have also succeeded well. We have produced good results. In the years 2000–2015, the proportion of children receiving primary education in developing countries increased from 83 to 91 pst. That's what we're going to take with us. The number of children who did not go to school was halved. There was tremendous progress. The trend has been clear. Fewer go through life without access to education. Unfortunately, the pandemic has changed. The assumptions have changed, and of course we're not in any way in the goal, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, where we would like to see faster progress. The government has chosen to focus its efforts on some new priorities. It is correct and important to see the challenges in the education sector in relation to what the government has made one of its main priorities, namely the fight against hunger and the work on enhanced food production. In this area, we know that developments have been alarming. After many years of progress in the fight against hunger, something happened around 2015, and in the country I just visited, Malawi, one third of the children are stunted, i.e., people with growth retardation, which also has serious consequences for their educational benefits. Everything has to be seen in context. I would like to say that it surprises me that the Right chooses to point to the GPE as the priority programme for education, given that in the recent review of the National Audit Office, some challenges related to the effectiveness of this programme were highlighted. Nevertheless, support for GPE is at a high level, although it is not at the level of which Solberg entered into an intentional agreement with them. This agreement was not signed, as we know, and we have no legal obligations in this way. Just to put it in perspective, since the Right is constantly coming back to the GPE: in the years 2010–2020, we paid an average of 408 million. kr to GPE annually. For the period 2021-2025, the aid amounts to 370 million. kr annually on average. So this isn't a breakdown of support for GPE, but it's a differentiation, for example. in the light of the results of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1317	We are now interrupting the debate on substance. 6 to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1329	The size is ready to go to voting in the case no. 2, 3 and 8 on today's map. Case No. 1 was the presentation of the Minister of Justice and Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1370	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1389	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Margaret Hagerup on behalf of the Right proposal No 3, from Hege Bae Nyholt on behalf of Red Proposal No. 3 was withdrawn during the debate. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As far as possible, the Government is asked to ensure an ordinary examination.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1415	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the event that the Government cancels the central written examination, the Government asks to give priority to the conduct of written examination for the 10th grade and Vg3 graduates and to facilitate the conduct of locally awarded examinations and oral examinations.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1442	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1519	The cancellation then goes back to the treatment of today's map and case no. 6th@item: inlistbox The next speaker is Margaret Hagerup, from the Right. Then we ask those who go out of the hall, to do it quietly, so that the debate can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1526	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for lifting an important topic. It's good to see that there are so many representatives in the hall. It shows that education engages across fields and fractions. We just left behind the International Women's Day. This is still an important day to highlight, including in Norway, but looking at it from an international perspective, there are several fundamental problems for children who do not get what they are entitled to. Unfortunately, girls are still in a minority at school in low-income countries. At the same time, all children are entitled to education. In the book "There Grows a Tree in Brooklyn", we follow Francie Nolan and the family's everyday life in a working class family in New York in the early 1900s. In history, a book, the only book the family owns, is central to the mother's wish that the kids get better opportunities than she had. She is convinced that knowledge is the way to this, and that reading is important. Education is fundamental. It is the key to a child's future and the solution to break the vicious circle of poverty, sickness and distress. Nevertheless, more than 250 million children in the world are not going to school. Many of them are girls, many of them live in extreme poverty, and many of them are fleeing from war and conflict. When girls in developing countries go to school, the number of teenage pregnancies is reduced and infant mortality is reduced. If all girls went to high school, almost all children's marriages and pregnancy would be eliminated before the age of 18. When girls get education, they also get more opportunities to get a job and income when they grow up. Even limited schooling produces positive results. Equal opportunities for education for girls and boys are a fundamental human right and a basis for equal opportunities later in life. One of the most important things we can do to contribute to gender equality is to give all kids a good education. It also creates good communities. As early as 2013, the government of Solberg welcomed the observance of educational rights for all children around the world. Education is important in order for individuals to live a good life and for countries to develop and have economic growth. The Solberg government fulfilled the promise to double the appropriations from 2013 to 2021, and it has produced results. From 2013 to 2016, 3.1 million children received annual support for schooling, many of them in vulnerable and conflict-affected areas. Millions of students have received textbooks and school books. We have contributed to increased competence for 140 000 teachers, and we have built and upgraded more than 5,400 classrooms in vulnerable areas. In Syria’s neighbouring country, we have been involved in financing double school leaving, so that refugee children also received the necessary education, in countries that already had major challenges. In particular, we have been committed to girls' access to education. Through the Global Partnership for Education, the GPE, Norway is working to get more developing countries to make the necessary investments in the education sector. The partnership is not only a place for donor countries such as Norway to channel educational assistance, it also commits those countries receiving training assistance to contribute money through its own education budget in their own countries. Once the government of Støre has cut off the funds of the GPE, it has dramatic consequences. 94 655 fewer teachers will be educated, 3407 fewer classrooms will be built, and 22 million fewer textbooks will be printed in developing countries as a consequence of this cut, according to the GPE. Leader of the Education Association, Steffen Handal, was also critical of the government’s cut. He clearly believed that once the Storting has decided that Norway should contribute, we need to follow up our commitments, and pointed out that the GPE is an organisation that assists national authorities in building up the education system, which is crucial for the development of a society. A good school balances differences — in Norway and the world — and it is not good for Norway’s international role to weaken our credibility and predictability. As a rich country, we should be able to take the lead as a committed partner. Now, unfortunately, there are those children in the world who do not have the opportunity to go to school. Not all countries see the value of investing in education. The international community must therefore go ahead and show that good schools are an investment in its future development, not just a cost. Norway used to be in front.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1554	As the interpellant refers to, education is the key to active social participation and social cohesion. Education is essential for achieving sustainability goals such as poverty reduction, better health, climate, decent work and economic growth. In the government, we are concerned that development policy should contribute to social change. To cope with this, we need to be more strategic in the choice of areas and priorities. The government has chosen to strengthen the priorities of climate adaptation, food security and renewable energy. Our commitment to climate, food and energy will also have ring-effects within education, both in the short and long term. These are important areas of activity because we know that the impact of schooling is weakened if school buildings are destroyed by climate-related storms, if children are not allowed to do schoolwork in the evening because of lack of electricity, or if the students lack food to acquire knowledge. In addition, we will provide good and nutritious food at school, because we know that school food not only contributes to increasing the learning potential at school but also ensures that children stay at school. At the same time, education is one of the main instruments of development policy, and government will give high priority to the field. The government’s training aid shall remain at a high level, approximately 3.4 billion. kr annually, and we are continuing with this a doubling of the total education aid from 2013. Norway shall have a leading role in the field of education in the future, especially in areas such as crisis and conflict and girls and women’s education. Here we will use the experience of building up our own welfare state and continue Norway's driving role for necessary services to all, including education, with the aim of combating inequality and promoting equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1565	Good questions have been asked from the interpellant, and in the argumentation we have heard very clearly how important educational assistance and development cooperation are. I want to use the time I have, to share some of the concerns that important partner organisations have come up with after what cannot be read as anything but a deprioritising of education. So we hear that no binding agreements with GPE are broken. Alice Albright, who is the leader of the GPE, has a slightly different message. What has been communicated from them – and I quote – is: this makes Norway the first donor country ever to go back on its promised contribution on such a scale. It's serious in many ways. At least it's in stark contrast to what in many ways is our electoral language: being a consistent partner. Alice Albright has also said, and I quote again: This is terribly alarming. By doing this, Norway is indicating: We’re not a reliable partner. At least that's how it's experienced by one of our most important partners in educational cooperation. The cut has consequences, and that is the background to the concern of the GPE and other partners initially. And that gives a real perspective: 2 393 086 students in poor partner countries will not get the opportunities they would get with the funds, for quality education and equal opportunities. That's the result. GPE is an important strategic partner precisely in order to give ownership to local authorities. We will always develop and follow up – that is the background to the reports that are coming – but we will not talk down any of the things that are, have been and will be a very important channel for development and education cooperation in many of the countries with which we work. My question to the Council of State is on the count. It is shown that we will remain at a permanent high level – the same level, it is said. It's going to be shown to be 3.4 billion. kr. I don't think we've been given an answer to the question that the interpellant also asked: how does one count when one comes to that number, 3.4 billion? Do you really want to delete this item? If a numerator double, it's not hard to get a double. But here it's hard for us to see how this can actually be maintaining the same high level. We even heard the Senterparti representative argue and explain why one has downgraded this and raised other areas, just by using funds that were intended for education. This is important. The result is children who do not receive education, classrooms that are not built, and teachers who are not trained to meet the students who need them. We know that education is so much more than education and school — it is also security and security. We know that in the situation that has developed in the wake of the pandemic, a lot of -- especially girls -- have ended up doing child labour, getting married, getting pregnant in the teens and having experienced sexualized violence, precisely because the schools have been closed. That's why this is so crucial. I look forward to hearing an even more concrete response to what counts for the level of education support.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1584	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this issue, because I believe we need a lot more debate in Norway on development policy. So I think it's very good that Injerd Schou raises an important question here in Stortinget, and that we get more debate and, in particular, more political disagreement about development policy. It's strange that in Norway we can have big conflicts about small things nationally, but internationally later we're as if we agree on everything. Of course, there are disagreements in our foreign and development policy too – what we think the world should look like. Development policy is primarily about policy. Money is important, but the most important thing is to bring about political change: to bring about political change in the north and to bring about political change in the south. I believe that one of the most successful aid projects Norway has ever had has been the rainforest production. We have spent a lot of money there, but the most important thing we have done has not been the money. The most important thing we have been given is to have political dialogue that made the deforestation go down in many of the countries with which we cooperated. Then the new government believes that we need more political assistance, and we also say that we should give more priority. And when we say that we should prioritise more, that means that everything is not prioritised – because if we give everything priority, it's not a priority, then it's just a long list of what you think is important. I think we're going to make a loss if we say that the priorities are going to be primarily about what we think is the most important thing, because there's a lot that's important. Mental health, for example, is very important, especially in war-torn countries. I do not hear anyone say that it should be a main priority for Norwegian aid. Does that mean you're opposed to mental health? Of course it doesn't. This is about where we believe that Norway can make the greatest possible difference. There, this government has set out six different areas – and there are a lot of them, so the criticism could be that there are almost too many areas you want to give priority to – that we want to give priority to. It's energy and climate, equality, food security and hunger, health, inequality and humanitarian relief. And then we're going to do a lot more than that. Take education: there is not one person in this room, I think, who disagrees that education should be very important, and that Norway should contribute a lot here. But when we have this as a different priority, I will ask back to the Right: why cut the Right in renewable energy when they put in government? Why did they – and also the Christian People's Party, under Dag-Inge Ulstein – make great cuts in renewable energy? Is that because they don't think it's important? Of course it is not, but it is because there have been some different priorities in development policy. Just to take some of the claims that also came: Margret Hagerup said what the cuts of the GPE were going to lead to, and then she rammed up some areas. None of it is correct, because it has not been cut to GPE. The budget they provided was never adopted, so it is not that this was money in the account that suddenly disappeared. On the contrary, Norway remains one of the largest donors to the GPE internationally. Then it was said that we cancel binding agreements. That's not true. What is true, on the other hand, is that it did the previous government – under Børge Brende, there was a big cut in binding agreements, among other things. on renewable energy. It was adopted under the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. I would warn you that we have a debate in which to beat each other in the head by saying that we feel more about one and you less about the other. I think we're going to have a good debate on development policy, and I think we're going to need it especially in the year we're going into now, because it's going to be a big dilemma for all of us who are engaged in development policy. We know that a lot of money, of course, is going to go to Europe, to our own continent. It's going to do it from Norway, and it's going to do it from other European countries. What I think is very good about this government is that now that we have given extra support to Ukraine, it is not at the expense of other countries. It has come as free means – it is over 2 billion. extra kr has arrived in Ukraine, but it has not been at the expense of other countries. Because although there is a war in Ukraine, the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan and Africa is not getting any better, and it is no less important to work for renewable energy in developing countries. So we have to be able to keep more thoughts in our head at the same time, including we who are working on development policy. Then I'd like to say that where the distinction is going to go between our parties of the year that is coming, between the Right and the Advance Party on one side and the other on the other. The Right Party and the Advance Party have gone to the elections on massive cuts in aid, that's what the truth is. The right-hand side removes the 1 percent and says it's no longer a measure, and what does that mean? Well, there's going to be a lot of relief in the Right Alternative Budget. So I'm glad that we have a government that insists that the 1 percent is fixed, that we should be a great giver in many fields, that we should give priority to tougher ones, and that we should have more political assistance, but at the same time, of course, we should continue to be a major and important contributor to education.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1607	I am not surprised that the Aukrust representative is pleased with this government, and I also fully agree with the Aukust representative that we should have more of this kind of debate, but it would be nice if we stayed on the topic. Well, let's try that out in the future. Then I notice that the Workers' Party is not so concerned about keeping neither the political nor moral obligations. I don't like to get ahead of the moral aspect, but it's also a moral obligation that something we've actually been unanimous in agreeing on, is no longer to be found in the Workers' Party, and neither, to this extent, in the Center Party. When we look at the priority areas of government, we can at least get the following impression: education is important, but most important in Norway – first ourselves and then ourselves. It is clear that we need to build a knowledge society and ensure inclusion and re-education because alienation is to be combated. We agree on all of this, but we must also believe the same with regard to other countries, not least where the need and need are greatest. The impression that's left is that it's more important on the Toten than in Tanzania. This is especially true where Norway is actually involved in development policy, and this is where I don't really understand what the government's priorities are. On several occasions I have confronted the Council of State with this question and got the answer that it is important that children have food in their stomachs in order to learn. Obviously it's important to have food in your stomach, but there's no difference between that and that you actually have to bet on education. In other words, education is reduced to a nutritional issue. At least that's what you can get the idea of. I hope this interpellation debate has given the Council of State the impression that the government's answer to questions about education is not entirely satisfactory. That's why I hope there's going to be a bigger initiative in this area, because it's needed, and the government will cooperate with the Stortinget. We've done that before, and I see it's not the same obligation anymore. I hope that the government will cooperate with the Stortinget, but also with aid actors, both in Norway and internationally, precisely to ensure that Norway is a credible and political player in promoting education globally. We've come past March 8th, but all the time, every day, children and young people, especially girls, will depend on this education to ensure a future that gives hope for the individual's life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1618	In my world, a cut is when money adopted in a budget is withdrawn, or when an agreement that has been concluded is broken. This is not the case in the GPE situation. The money was not granted. The agreement was not concluded. And I find it strange that the Right insists on continuing a debate that the choice of one channel, which the previous government prioritised, is the only rewarding thing about the education budget. For this government is committed to the promise that we will continue to raise Mr. 3.4 billion. kr for education, i.e. the level of ambition of the previous government. These funds are granted in addition to via the education line, through regional allocation, the civil society line, humanitarian aid, the stabilisation line and Norec exchange mechanisms. In addition, a share of core multilateral aid will be included in order to achieve the objective of 3.4 billion. So kr, which we're going to deliver on. Let me briefly mention four things that will be central to our efforts further, for the first education in crisis and conflict. Today's crisis in Ukraine makes this even more important, and as mentioned, Education Cannot Wait is highly prioritised by this government, and they are increasing today. its efforts in the context of the Ukraine crisis. Investing in the education of girls and the political and economic participation of women is a high priority of this government. We support girls' education through UNICEF, through GPE, through UNESCO, through Education Cannot Wait and through a number of civil society organisations. Aid for vocational training has not been mentioned here today. It is essential to achieve the objectives of job creation, equality, climate, clean energy and training in skills that ensure a good transition to the labour market. It is absolutely necessary to ensure meaningful employment for the large youth coals that stand before us, especially in Africa. Finally, let me also mention that the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, is inviting a summit on education for the autumn, where the aim is to mobilise for sustainability objective 4, on quality training for all. The Government is set to contribute actively to the preparation and implementation of this summit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1633	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1649	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1658	I would first like to thank the Committee for the fact that it was possible to deal with this matter as quickly as we have done. A quick treatment was desirable because it is absolutely necessary for the organizers of the X Games with predictability of the event. A clarification has been given, but it is extremely disappointing that this clarification makes it appear that X Games Norway now has to wind up its business in Norway – that it is actually such that not only the government, but also the government parties here on the Stortinget and SV are already making sure that X Games in Norway is soon history. The budget proposal for 2022, presented by the Solberg Government, states that in 2022 the allocation of X Games gives predictability to the organiser as a long-term fixed beneficiary of the State budget and that this contributes to ensuring that the event consolidates its important role internationally and nationally. This was continued by the Big Government, and by the Government Parties and SV, which did not make any changes to the allocation or justification for the allocation during the treatment of the State budget here on the Stortinget. They continued to give their support, as they did in the previous year. It was therefore very surprising when, in a letter dated 2 February, the government informed the organiser that the 2022 grant would not be paid, and even worse, that it had to be assumed that the government would not give priority to the X Games grant in its draft State budget for 2023. I do not know what changed from the budget decision in December 2021 until the beginning of February 2022. One thing is that the pandemic meant that it was not possible to carry out everything that was planned in 2022, and not the largest events – that there could be a need to place some leads on the use of the funds allocated for planning and preparation that are absolutely necessary, and that all or part of the amount could instead be transferred to an event that could go off the stack when the pandemic allowed it, as was done last year. Instead, it was decided to ignore the budget decision completely and to withdraw the entire grant. At the same time, a qualifying rate for next year’s event was set up. It could go off the stack as planned – qualification to a river that will not take place. Understand the one who can. This has simply been a strange process to witness — that a government council then directly oversteps a decision and a direction from Stortinget. This is not a allocation a minority government can just retract. There has to be a new decision here at Stortinget. Although SV will not pre-empt any future budgets, the Council of State cannot take it for granted that the government will have a majority to remove X Games from the State budget. If you want to continue the X Games in recent years, it's too late. The handling of this matter by the Council of State, the government and also the SV side completely beats the legs under X Games in Norway, and it is incredibly sad. I'll take up the suggestions we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1679	The representative Turid Kristensen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1684	It was particularly important to listen to the story of the Right in this matter, because the majority of the Stortinget – which in this case is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV – believes that the matter has some other, but quite simple, realities. The size has granted 15 million. SEK to X Games to conduct an event in 2022. The pandemic and the infection situation mean that in 2022 there will be a downgraded event. It is the organiser’s own decision to implement a scaled-down event in 2022. The exact same thing happened in 2021. A scaled-down event was then carried out. This means that approx. 6.5 million. kr of the funds paid out for X Games are unused. The need for funds to implement the scaled-down 2022 event is almost the same – 6.5 million. kr. The message the Ministry of Culture has given in clear terms is that the unused funds from 2021 can be used by the organiser in 2022. So the alternative would have been to withdraw the funds that weren't used. It's common practice. This means, as both the government has underlined, and as the majority of the Grand Duchy underlines, that there is sufficient funding to implement the 2022 event, as the Stortinget has foreseen. It's the simple realities of this case, and I have to say that I think it's a little strange that the right-hand side of this case, which is usually very concerned with public money, will pay 15 million. NOK 2022 not to be used in 2022. It also violates all budgetary practice The Storting has that individual actors are to be paid out funds they will only put in a savings account. The funds allocated usually tend to require the organiser to use the money in the current year, because it is the 2022 budget that is the starting point here. The state budget for 2023 has not yet been submitted, not yet made, and the Stortinget will have time to discuss the state budget for the next year of the harvest. And I look forward to the right-hand side proposal then.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1697	X Games is a competition that engages young people – there is no doubt about it, and this case is not about it. It's positive that youth is engaged, whether it's the public wide-ranging sport or more commercial event like X Games. It is a number of good purposes, events and initiatives within the Ministry of Culture’s area. That's why both the Ministry of Culture, the state and the municipalities are trying to reach the many. In most cases, a person talks about small permissions to the many, but they make a difference to them. The centre party is on the verge of this policy. For us, it is about the small and many who work in their local environment every day in the fields of culture, sport and volunteering. Sorry, that doesn't mean everything. Then it's the universal arrangements for the many that are most important. There are many sporting events in Norway, and there are very few who get back from the state. This case, on which the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg was involved, contains a number of formal things in relation to the promises related to the annual budget and the amount of fixed entry in the budget. The Council of State has also responded to this in its letter to the Committee. Many events get start-up help over a few years. It's also got X Games. It is not the same as fixed mail. It is also such that no one can give binding support to the 2023 budget. It is also important to specify that X Games is a commercial event owned by the commercial media house ESPN. ESPN is worth $50 billion, which is the equivalent of $500 billion. kr. Fifteen million. kr does not sound that much, and it may be correct in relation to the major departments. But by reference to what I have already said about small permissions to the many, it is also 15 million. kr a difference for a good portion of layers and associations. That is also what this matter is all about, prioritizing so many good purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1710	This must be one of the strangest, smallest things I've ever been away in my time as a cultural politician here on the Stortinget, precisely because, of course, as the representative of the Center Party says, many people want state support for events, culture, sport and so on. But here, in fact, the Storting decided that you wanted to support the event. It was made by the representative who first took the word here, as if this was something X Games themselves had just made a choice to move. The tone has been quite different in the debate, both from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, when it has involved all other movements of cultural and sporting events during the pandemic. That's what I think makes this extra special. I also think it is very doubtful that when you ask a written question about the matter, as we did in this case, you get answers that are not necessarily entirely consistent with what is said in the newspapers, or that the actor can report back to us directly. That was the reason why the Progress Party then also chose to promote a concrete proposal in this case. Unfortunately, today only the Left and Right have chosen to support us in this. I think the representative and the case rapporteur from the Right had a very good report on this, but I would also like to point out in particular the comments that we have written together in the matter. I think this is just the beginning of a bigger debate, because for me this is also about what signals you send – of course – to children and young people, but also about what signals you send to the unorganized sport. It is not that all children and young people like to run after a ball, or that everything has to be organized under the Norwegian Sports Association. So here this case has actually raised a number of new questions that I can guarantee that the Progress Party is going to follow closely up. This reminds us of the active counter-action of an important and very popular sporting event, and the government's procedure may in fact also mean that the Supervisory and Constituent Committee has to see itself open to a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1723	This is a representative proposal from the Progress Party, which has picked up the withdrawal by the Minister of Culture of the agreed 15 million. kr on the State budget of the year. The Minister of Culture has explained that the organizer had both money left from last year and that they have reduced this year's event, so that they do not need this money in 2022. It therefore makes sense that we should not spend taxpayers' money on an event that does not take place this year. I don't think anyone can possibly disagree with that. On the other hand, the leaping point that has created great commitment is the government's signal that there is no certainty about X Games getting money over the state budget in 2023. I understand that a major event like this requires planning in good time, and that the organizer needs predictability in terms of next year's allocation. Therefore, they see it as difficult to wait until the 2023 budget is adopted before they know if they get money on next year's budget and can start planning. SV cannot predict what the government will present as a proposal for a budget, nor can we at this stage say anything about what SV will give priority to. X Games is a big event that has both good commercial sponsors and great non-profit involvement. It is spectacular sports that challenge and delight many young people around the world. It engages many volunteers, and it creates activity in the areas it is arranged. SV has no intention of killing X Games, but we can't promise anything until next year's government budget is dealt with in Stortinget. The Minister for Culture has announced that she will come back with a briefing on this budget change in the context of the revised budget, and I hope she will also explain what she thinks about the 15 million. kr shall be used for, and what she thinks about, future support for X Games. Finally, I would also challenge the Minister of Culture to say something about this in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1734	So SAHR Production AS, which is the organizer of X Games in Norway on behalf of ESPN, will be covered by the cost of the event they will have in 2022. The debate so far sounds like we in the government have suddenly decided to break a budget decision by not allowing X Games to hold their event in Norway in 2022. That's not right. But because X Games themselves have chosen to scale down their event because of the corona, less money is needed than what they had in the budget for 2022. It is the SAHR that has itself communicated to us a total budget need of 6.5 million. NOK 2022 for their event. So that's 8.5 million. kr less than what was taken into account when the State budget for 2022 was presented and treated by Stortinget. In 2021, the SAHR received 13 million. kr. 6.47 million. NOK of which the money was not used. Instead of demanding that money back, the Ministry, in line with the Stortingen decision in connection with the RNB last year to provide support for the 2022 event, has given the SAHR the opportunity to use unused funds from 2021 to cover the costs of the planned events in 2022. This means that the total funding needs for the implementation of the 2022 events have already been met. In other words, there is no basis for paying additional funds to the SAHR events in 2022. They're going off the stack with the residual money from 2021. It's X Games themselves that have been very clear that they wanted to clarify whether they're getting State aid in 2023 as well. It's very unusual to announce what's coming in the state budget proposal in October, because it's the government about to make these days, but I've been clear because X Games themselves wanted predictability. I have therefore also said that in the draft budget for 2023 from the government, we will not propose funds for X Games. It's an honest thing. Of course, neither the government nor I can forge what the Great Government's treatment of the state budget for 2023 is going to be, but I'm at least honest and careful that it's not one of the priorities of the Workers' Party and the Center's going to present in the state budget when it comes to this room. Then, in the usual way, when financial assumptions change over a year, I want to come back and account for the economic situation of X Games in the context of the revised state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1755	As I mentioned in a previous article, the budget proposal for 2022 states that the X Games appropriations provide predictability to the organiser as a long-term, permanent recipient of the State budget, and that this helps to ensure that the event confirms its important role nationally and internationally. This was then carried on without changes, or changes to the justification, by the Government of the Council of State for the budget for 2022. There are several beneficiaries of State grants under the same entry as X Games. The same sentence on predictability and important role mentions Extremsportveko at Voss, and Bergen Triathlon, international cycling championship and others are also included under this entry. They have all been there for many years, partly with large amounts. As several of these don't take X Games out any profit and profit and are no more or less commercial than the others. What are the plans of the Council of State for these events? I hope not, but will they also be deleted from the State budget? And if not, what separates these events from the X Games?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1762	There is nothing called a fixed entry on the government budget of a grant beneficiary in line with X Games. The fact that the previous government chose to give X Games support over the state budget from 2017 until today is a priority they did, but it is not that it is given for all future. These are political priorities. We from Arbeiderparti-Senterparti-Registration want to support the self-organised sport of children and young people. That a large commercial event like X Games will get 15 million. kr from the state budget, we do not think we are the right priority. Then there are several similar types of events that are sub-commercial, which are supported by the State budget – that is quite right. We will return to individual events in connection with the state budget in our own way. But what's special about X Games this year is that they themselves have a lower need for funds than what they outlined, and they get the money they need to implement their event for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1769	I think the Council of State easily jumps over the fact that X Games are now allowed to arrange a qualifying course – and that is good enough – for a run that she has already told you not to continue. There is a need for long-termity and preparation, and costs will also be incurred in 2022 if you are to arrange for 2023. And this is for the other parties that haven't decided: you can't come in December 2022 and say that you have to support it anyway, and overrun the Council of State and the Government. But I didn't get a response to what it is that separates X Games from the others. If the Council of State wants to give good predictability to these organisers – who have been long-term recipients, and who need funds for planning and preparation, all of them, I believe, in 2022 – what is the message from the Council of State to these events? And if there's no difference, what's the difference between X Games and these events?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1776	X Games and all of the other events that the representative is now setting up are completely different events. They have it in common that they have a commercial part in them, but it's not like we want to treat all of these equally. We return to support for individual events in the ordinary way in every budget. We will be in dialogue with those beneficiaries on a continuous basis. That's also why we don't now pay out the entire pot that the Storting has decided that X Games should have, because there's no need for it. I want to turn to what the representative said: Yes, it would have been late to come in the fall of 2022 and tell the X Games that you are not prioritised for 2023 of this government. That's why I've said that now, because X Games want that predictability, and that's not how we want to prioritize 15 million. kr to X Games in the next few years. It has been great that the state budget has helped them up and stand in Norway over these years, but as a commercial player, you have to be on your own feet soon, and we want to spend the money on self-organized sports for children and young people in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1783	I do not feel that I get an answer to my question. There's not so much difference in these events. Many of them look great. Many of them have received money over many years. Extremsportveko hope that I will remain standing. This is also action sport. 90 pst. of all children and young people engaged in action sports in Norway are engaged in unorganised sport. And I can't understand why the Council of State is already saying that she wants to cut support for X Games, kill X Games in Norway – because that's really what you're doing. And so do those parties that don't object today. It's a minority government that gives those signals that they won't prioritize it. And that's fair. It is, as the Council of State says, a political priority, but it completely destroys the basis for the possible continuation of the event. So once again, what's separating the X Games from the other big events, which are more or less exactly the same commercial ones, and which have international owners? Why is it just X Games that don't have to be prioritized? Why are they going to go when the Center Party says they're going to give priority to smaller events?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1790	There is a strange question, because there are extremely many examples of beneficiaries, individual projects, events that receive grants from the State budget from the cultural budget, which have other similar events that do not. There's a big difference between Arctic Race and X Games. There are two completely different events. Yes, it's true that they have a commercialism that makes them the same, but that's also true. As I said, the premise for the representative's question will be that this government wants all self-organized action sports to live. We won't. We're just saying now it's time to spend the $15 million. kr to X Games on something else. Nor are we cutting all these arrangements over one comb and saying that we do not want them. We treat money for individual events in an ordinary way – the state budget for the state budget. But because just X Games have been busy with predictability, I'm honest with that and I'm already saying, in the spring of 2022, instead of coming to the harvest, that we're not going to prioritize it in the state budget we're presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1797	As an integral part of the extreme sports community and a strong supporter of Exstremsportveko at Voss, I understand that this case is causing concern out there and for many others as well. In concrete terms, the representative from the Right did not get a very clear answer, but I wonder whether it can be so concrete that the Minister of Culture has major problems with this matter precisely because it is a private-run event, and because it is outside the organized sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1802	No, not at all. I've been to X Games myself, I've looked at X Games, and I take X Games. It's an incredibly good event around a sport that I personally, to a greater or lesser degree of success, run with myself. It has nothing to do with our relationship with the self-organized sport. On the contrary, this government wants to strengthen the framework of self-organised sport, as we do through self-organised sports and by increasing support for, for example: Tverga, who works for this. So it's a premise I don't want to agree to. It is also the case that the previous government, in which the Progress Party was sitting, came with the government budget from year to year where someone suddenly lost the money or it was cut off in the money. This is the time of the budget. This is about political priorities. It is not that all projects receive state support forever. Now we're saying that the 15 million. kr we want to apply to something else. It's also so that ESPN, which is the big commercial player behind X Games, has big economic muscles. Elsewhere in the world, X Games are organized without state support, and 15 million. kr over the cultural budget is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1811	I'm still worried about the signal this sends to the X Games, but also to all the young people out there who are inspired by this event, which is a direct reason for recruitment. I also find it very strange to have voted in favour of this allocation in the autumn, that, as a former opposition politician, as the Minister for Culture was then, it was so obvious that for artists and other parts of culture and sport, it was very important to give predictability and action packages and everything like that, i.e. in the case of others. What is it that makes the Minister of Culture not have the same sympathy for the situation that X Games got under the pandemic, and that makes the event move on, that she has for everyone else?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1816	There's an X Games event this year, but they need less money than what they applied for when the state budget was adopted. Previously on 15 million. kr is now the need for a little over 6 million. kr, and they get that. When it comes to predictability, that's exactly what I want to give to X Games. They've asked, honestly, what they can expect for 2023, and I've said that it's not going to be the political priority of the Central Party and the Labour Party to continue supporting X Games in 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1821	The council is so honest, because she says predictability is that X Games are going to be shut down. There's no other way to have such a big event for self-organized sports if you don't have a public support against the X Games and these leading events, which also goes on to a large part of the width we need in self-organized sports. My question is then: What makes the Council of State think – and there are no other alternatives to such large and wide events – that events that motivate self-organised sports are no longer important in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1829	I do not say, and I have never said, that events that motivate self-organized sports are not important – on the contrary. But what's not right is that a single event should be on the government budget for so long that someone, even in this room, starts talking about a fixed line in the budget. I think there are several types of major individual events that could certainly be expected to receive state support from the state budget. So it's a little weird that X Games can't be held in Norway without state support when it's done around the world. This isn't about us not wanting self-organized sports, it's about a political priority, and now we want to spend this money on other things. Nor is it that X Games is the only venue for recruiting or inspiring people for snowboarding and skiing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1836	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1843	I'd like to start by trying to say some words about what X Games are. X Games is the only competition at international level in Norway for snowboarders, freestyle drivers, skateboarders and other action sportsmen. X Games is the most popular sports event among Norwegian youth. It's documented by Opinion. X Games are far more popular than the elite series in football, Holmenkollen Ski Festival, World Cup at Lillehammer and the OBOS League. For all the young fans, it is important that X Games continue in Norway. There are no other events where they can see or meet their heroes. The Progress Party has supported X Games for a number of years. We've supported them because they hit so many. They meet those who are not necessarily concerned with traditional sports. We're not all the same, we're lucky. Maybe there are some games in this room that don't like X Games. Maybe it's because X Games have grown up themselves. Maybe it's because X Games have managed to grow by themselves without being run by politicians. Over the last two years, many have worn out, not only everyone who has been sitting at home, but also all those who gather people. Culture, volunteering and sport have not been able to bring people together. X Games have also worn out because of the pandemic. That's why it's also proven that things have to be postponed. When things are postponed, it's not like you're putting everything on ice. When something is postponed, you also have to have money for planning, organizing and everything to do. The progress game are proud supporters of X Games, just because X Games are what they are. Therefore, we believe that the promised money must be paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1856	X Games is an international event in Norway, i.e. at world level, for snowboarders, freeboarders, skateboarders, Moto X drivers – something we should be proud of. It engages tens of thousands of audiences every year and is exposed to millions of people all over the world on television and in social media. While we have stars and role models like Marcus Kleveland, Terje Håkonsen and others that inspire young people to play that kind of sport, X Games is an arena that does the exact same thing. It is a major event in small Norway, which we should cheer up and stimulate to have more events like, and not set down, as it is now in practice. I know very well what this proposal is about, because I have written it myself, but this case is also about something more than just that payment this year. This issue is also about the signals that the Minister of Culture should be commended for being honest about right now, namely that this government will not prioritise further support for X Games. What's the consequence of that? Well, that's what the organizers of the X Games have said very clearly. If this proposal is defeated in Stortinget, to which it is based, the organisation behind X Games will be wound up in Norway. Those who don't vote for this payment next week, when voting happens, are also responsible for the fact that X Games, which has been a story we should be proud of in Norway, no longer become a reality, but are abandoned. That's the consequence of not paying this money, because then you don't have predictability. Although there's a great event at Dombås this weekend, it's a qualifier for an event that doesn't happen, for an event like X Games also needs predictability in terms of public support, both monetary, moral and other support. It's sad that the government says they won't pay out this money that's been adopted for this year, and that they won't give priority to X Games in the coming years. I hope you turn around. State Council Trettebergstien seems very clear in its case, but I hope the Central Party and SV do not accept the priority of joining the X Games, because that is what you are actually doing with the decision it is up to. The Council of State says she wants to give priority to self-organized sports. At the same time, she agrees to wind up perhaps the largest self-organised sport event in Norway. It's very sad. I notice I'm becoming a little emotional now, so it's possible I'm repeating myself, but my message is just that I hope those parties that intend to vote against this proposal, take another round and turn around before it's too late. In favour of voting against this proposal, you are also responsible for the closure of X Games, and that this little, good adventure we've had, no longer continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1871	It is absolutely amazing to have attended a State Council responsible for sport that does not want sporting events in Norway. For what you are doing now is putting an end to the most popular youth event between 18 and 24 years of age, which inspires the breadth of self-organized sports, where they have met the elite in the world – and many have also emerged through X Games. Everyone knows that you're going to have a width, you're going to have a top, and if you're going to have a top, you're going to have a width. We have developed this in Norway. This is not a matter of priority, as the Council of State says. Priority is given to making a difficult choice between different proposals that you want. This isn't it. This is a government council that actively wants to stop this event, despite having been granted the state budget, and despite the fact that the government did not make any changes when they made their additional proposal. It was not discussed. When this was discussed and discussed in the Stortinget, both in the Financial Committee and in the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, it was not mentioned, nor discussed, nor submitted that these funds should be recovered. There was nothing to be made aware of before the Storting had decided. And then we're told at the beginning of February that no, this isn't going to happen anyway. This is not a priority. This is an active closure of the main event for self-organised sport in Norway, which has an international reputation and a high degree of affiliation, as well as the importance it has locally — whether it is in Oslo, as it has been in the past, in the Lillehammer region or now in Dombås. It's even so special that these facilities that we're going to see on the weekend at Dombås are not going to be in Norway in the years to come. Because it's not like there's another actor who'll be able to do something similar in the years to come. This is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and – wonderfully – SV: If they insist that they will not follow their own budget and what we decided in the autumn, if they hold on to this by withdrawing this even when revised, it is those who actively stop what is the main motivation for very many young people in Norway, and who produce results. X Games were the sports that were outside the Olympics. And what has happened is that many of the sports that were taken up there -- all the honor to those who stood behind it -- have become part of the OL bet afterwards. And amazingly, those who run X Games are never negative to the organized sport. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1884	It's time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1889	I was first stated because in my previous post I did not have time to say anything about why it is so incredibly sad that the government now prioritizes as it does, but now both Ola Elvesuen, Silje Hemdal and Himanshu Gulati have told what this means for children and young people and for our international reputation in action sports and what X Games are doing, and how popular this is. But what they haven't talked about, and which I also think is important to include, is how important this is to local businesses, and the ringing effects they get. Next year this was to be arranged at Lillehammer, in the state council's own home region. Here, many local actors are missing large incomes, in months where they otherwise do not have such high incomes. It's small hotels. That's about. 200 suppliers, which are largely local, who are now missing income. Many of these are also industries that have been incredibly hard hit by the coronary apathy, for example. Our travel industry, which needs all the help they can get in the years to come. This goes beyond 250 employees in SAHR Production, and it goes beyond 150-200 volunteers. And why are you doing this? I have not managed to get hold of it, except that the Council of State is perfectly crystal clear that she and the government will simply not prioritize this. From those sitting in the hall today, I have received much more ambiguous feedback. Okay, the Center Party will give priority to smaller events. It's fine, it is, but this is actually a flagship for us in Norway. To those of the Workers' Party and the SV's representatives who are sitting here saying that the race has not been run, they will see if they will get it into the budget for 2023: that's not true. The race is over. The spike in the chest is being tapped in here today, and I think it's incredibly sad. Other cultural organisers have been told during the pandemic that if you have to cancel, in general, you should not withdraw the appropriations they have received. Okay, they have to cancel now, but then they can get their business carried on when the pandemic permits. You don't let X Games do that. I think it's invisibly sad and completely incomprehensible, but it doesn't seem like you want to turn around. It has been mentioned that this might be accepted by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I don't know, we're going to look at it. But I just want to give a big thank you to all those who are behind: SAHR Production, Terje Håkonsen and all the volunteers who have been on this great event. If you want to save it, somehow, at a later stage, with other organizers, you can consider providing facilities, like you do for organized sport. There is no Holmenkollen system. This must be built every year. That's why you need state support, and that's why you need predictability. It won't give the government, and it's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1904	There are actually two debates going on here today, which we have to separate a little. One is the assumption and implementation of the budget decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for 2022. The score is as follows: There is nothing to go with to the control committee. X Games received 15 million in state budget decisions. kr, but then come to the government and say that the need is considerably less. Then we say that since the money from 2021 has been transferred to 2022 and covers the 2022 requirement, there is no basis for paying the money that the Storting decided they should have. It is entirely normal economic management and practice. It is not that you can apply for support for an event for a year and then take your money further and use it for something else another year. It's completely ordinary, ordinary processes. We do not break any decision regarding the size of the game, because X Games will arrange the event they have chosen to do this year. If they had turned around and decided to scale up the event, they would have received more money, but we cannot pay out money that is not to be used. Then it's 2023 and the way forward. I think it's a little strange by the Left, Right and especially the Progress Party, which every year when the budget is presented, gives hundreds of grant recipients – cultural organizers, sports organisers, small and large – shocks when they are ironed out with a pen stroke in their budgets. That's an honest thing, and that's the political reality when we make budgets. You can't prioritize everything, you have to pick something. When X Games ask me what we think about the way forward, I'm quite honest that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are not going to prioritize $15 million. kr to X Games in the years ahead, because there's a relatively small amount of money on a relatively small cultural budget, and we now want to spend that money on the breadth and self-organized sports across the country. That's a priority. I hope that X Games, with the big commercial player they have in their backs, can continue to hold X Games in Norway, as they do most of the other places in the world where X Games are held, where they do fine without public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1917	First of all, I hope the Council of State has something to point to when she quite easily says that the Left, Right and Advance Party is cutting cultural offers with a pen stroke. When have we done it, and what have you done it to? On the contrary, if you have predictability, it's just cultural activity – cultural activity that's also related to X Games. This is not just about the sporting event: concerts are being held, art exhibitions are being held, and Norwegian actors have also been there every year. It is the purpose of the decision on the size of the building that has been broken. I'm not in any control committee, and I don't know what's formal there. But there is no doubt that the purpose of the allocation – which is to provide predictability for X Games – is broken by what the Council of State has done. Yes, you can say that you have the means to carry out the qualification that is now. But it is not at all that you can make a new commitment in December, and then you have to expect that you can have a full event in February. It can't be done. That's why you have to have the continuous predictability, that you think over several years, in order to have these major international events with the breadth and quality of X Games. That part has not been followed up by the Council of State — the whole purpose of the decision on the collapse. What is also provocative for the Storting, regardless of what is thought to be the formal part, is that this has not been mentioned throughout the whole budget process during the harvest. It's going to be quite surprising. Those of us who know the story, both the story of X Games and what the Workers' Party has been behind – whether it was Oslo or the connection with the organized sport in the Sports Association – have so clearly followed this. We have followed and seen that there were no signs of any change to this when the additional proposition was submitted. There was no sign of any change before Stortinget made his decision. And then we get both as big-time representatives and those who are going to be organizers – who have dealt with the decisions we have made and who are now implementing a qualification to have a larger event for next year, and who have followed the rules and been moderate in the pandemic, just to make this happen – just to hear that no, this was not something you wanted to implement anyway, we stop, this is something that has been, and now it's the end of this. And when you say that you want other priorities, I haven't heard any suggestions about what it should be. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1928	It's time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1933	Most of it's been said, so I have to be short. Governments are honest that she will not give priority to X Games in the next budget and in the years to come. The result of that is that X Games will be terminated. This is "game over" for X Games. If she means it, she'll have to implement the policy she says she wants to implement. I made an insistent call to SV and the Center Party. I hope you won't agree to shut down the X Games, which will be the consequence of making this decision. You can't get away with it. Let's just prioritize X Games in the budgets ahead, and the X Games are done. They have notified them that they will send letters again immediately, if necessary, in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1939	We probably don't get the council to change her mind about what she wants to prioritize by repeating it here in this room, but there are some basic misunderstandings and also a little bit of strange communication. If X Games had turned around and scaled up, despite the pandemic, they would have gotten the money. How can the Council of States think that it is possible for such a big event, which involves so many, and which requires so much preparation, to turn around, scale up and arrange in a few months? It can't be done. Similarly, to those who are sitting in the hall here today and believe that they are not now joining in to put down the X Games: that's them. It's not going to let itself come up with an allocation in December and believe that X Games and the people behind can turn around and arrange this in a few months in 2023. Other cultural organisers have also been very clear to the Council of State: incomes should not be lost, and appropriations should not be lost when you have to adapt to the pandemic. That concern does not give the Council of State X Games. I think this is insanely sad. I respect that this is a political priority. I respect the priority given to this by the Council of State and the Government. But the Council of State is in a minority government, so what's wrong with dealing with this matter, which several of us here today have been involved in, is that the Council of State just says that she will come back with a statement to the Stortinget. A minority government cannot just cut out an item on the State budget that is well-founded. I have made many rounds with our financial advisors and read the guidance for the treatment of the government budget – a new decision needs to be made. But the signals the council sends are enough to put the nail in the box for X Games, because you can no longer trust that there will be anything. Maybe other games will try to get it back in, but it's too late. It's very sad. I think it's a completely wrong priority, but it's a priority the Council of State would like to take. But I wish that this part of unorganized sport was supported more, and in line with the organized sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1950	I take the floor, because I think it is important to be neat about what is the actual legislation and the right constitutional in this case as well. I really think it's a little special to have to go up to the pulpit here and explain the concept of the revised national budget of the representative Elvesuen, who is the former Council of State. It's completely wrong, what's being said. There have been changes in this case since Stortinget adopted its budget. The changes that have been made will be presented by the government in the revised national budget. The decision on this is also taken. It is the simple realities of the matter, which is about the allocation for 2022. The revised national budget will set out what is right. The discussion on the 2023 allocation clearly also calls for some constitutional training, especially for the representatives of the Right, for the government to provide the State budget to the Stortinget. The fact that the Council of State is clear as to what she and the government want to put forward in the State budget is the right and tidy thing, but I can stress to the representatives of the opposition parties that the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Government also know what we are doing in this matter. But it is neat and correct that it is the Council of States that is clear on this, because it is she and the government that are going to present their government budget for 2023 to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-10.ana.ud543e1959	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
