ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e115	The representatives Helge André Njåstad and Grunde Almeland, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of Hordaland, Benjamin Jakobsen, now takes his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e139	The representative, Tobias Drvland Lund, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e144	On behalf of the big business representatives Hege Bae Nyholt, Seher Aydar and myself, I would like to make suggestions to include crisis centres in the Häsbanken grant schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e149	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e154	On behalf of the representatives Marie Sneve Martinussen and myself, I would like to propose the review and resolution of intervention-driven funding in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e159	The representative of Mona Fagerås will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e164	I will then, on behalf of the big business representatives Ingrid Fisaa, Andreas Shelg Unneland, Grete Wold, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself, make a proposal to evaluate the railway reform. In addition, on behalf of the representatives of Ingrid Fisaa, Andreas Shelg Unneland, Grete Wold and myself, I would like to promote a representative proposal on a punctual and reliable railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e172	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e177	On behalf of the representatives of Une Bastholm, Lan Marie Nguyen Berg and myself, I would like to make a proposal to increase the pace and obligations of Norwegian climate policy. And on behalf of the representatives of Une Bastholm, Lan Marie Nguyen Berg and myself, I would like to propose measures to take care of the food soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e184	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e204	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e220	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e237	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions by members of the Government. And those who had to sign out on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e244	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. There have been some pages of comments from all of us. The aim of this Communication is to incorporate global sustainability targets into a Norwegian context and to present potential national target targets for Norwegian businesses, organisations and public authorities as tools for the achievement of sustainability targets. The world has changed dramatically in the last month. It is war in Ukraine – a war on our own continent. We go into a more uncertain and unpredictable time than in a long time. It sheds new light on the policy we are implementing here at home. We need to have a longer perspective on what we're doing in the future. Therefore, the sustainability message is so important. To be quite concrete, achieving these objectives is about priorities, policy development and, of course, the actual phase of whether a government really burns for something, the concrete allocations that are prioritised in government budgets. At Hurdal, we agreed on concrete policies to qualify more people for work and to ensure that more people can support themselves and their families. This is particularly important for us to balance the living conditions of our country. The gap in living conditions between poor urban areas and the rest of the country is increasing, and child poverty is increasing. In some urban areas, we have tripled families with long-term low incomes. The segregated government is increasing in cities, especially between those who have the most and those who have the least in the wallet – and this has happened on the Right Guard. We took action against child poverty already in the budget for 2022. That is why we lowered the maximum price in Kindergarten for the first time since 2013. Therefore, we strengthened the municipal framework so that municipalities can increase staffing, improve their skills and quality in kindergarten. Politics works, and I want to give an example that priorities matter. The Stoltenberg government started its trial of free core time in kindergartens in selected Oslo urban areas from 2006. Four- and five-year-olds in selected urban areas with a high proportion of minorities were offered 20 hours free of charge during the week. Researchers have now followed these children over time and found more positive results when students have taken national 8th-stage tests. These students have achieved better mastery in the national reading test. Children in low-income families where mother does not work seem to have had the greatest benefit from free core time in both reading and calculating skills at the eighth stage, and boys have had the greatest benefit in reading. Politics works, just look at what we've got in the City Council in Oslo. In recent years, students in Oslo have improved their qualifications both in secondary and secondary education. Several young people apply for vocational training, and several students complete and pass the school cycle. These are results that speak for themselves. The list is long, and I could still ram up good grip from our government, for example. climate budget as a management tool. All sectors will now have emission targets and we will start with climate budgeting – an annual commitment budget for greenhouse gas emissions as part of the ordinary state budget. This is how climate and nature will lead the other policy. Then it'll be serious. The green shift now knocks on the door, and then good control tools are crucial to achieve the goals. The municipality of Oslo dropped over 20 pst. less greenhouse gas in 2021 than in the previous year, and up to 2025, the City Council's objective is that all own plant machinery should be electrical and thus reduce both greenhouse gas emissions and noise, while improving local air quality. As the first municipality in Norway, Oslo municipality created its own climate budget for 2017, and it has been a new job. To achieve the climate targets in Oslo, emissions must be cut sharply and the budget shows how much needs to be cut each year. It also shows how the cut is to be made by numerically fixing the impact of the different climate measures. For Oslo, the climate budget as a governance tool is crucial for achieving the goals set by the City Council. It is useful to go ahead and break the path to new policies, but it requires courage and willingness to make the tough priorities to follow up – not just beautiful words in a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e269	I am pleased that today we are dealing with an important message that was in time worked out by the Solberg government. The Communication reviews the 17 sustainability objectives and the 169 targets adopted by the 2015 UN General Assembly. Norway was the driving force behind the adoption of the targets and is obliged to work to achieve the goals by 2030. The achievement of the sustainability objectives requires a broad political commitment, both nationally and locally. I would say that Norwegian municipalities play a crucial role in achieving these objectives. The UN sustainability target 11 is sustainable cities and local communities. There is really no political field that does not concern a city or a community — just as it is a fact that some challenges are particularly strong in the major cities. For example, cities have major social challenges, but they also have a greater capacity to meet these challenges. Then they need politicians who play with them. Also in the opposition, the Right will be a partner, a listening party and a driving force for a policy that balances social differences and gives citizens the opportunity to live a good life. This is why, for example: the continued strengthening and renewal of site operations important to us. Norway is actively contributing to the UN organisations mandated in the fields of food security, nutrition and long-term development of agriculture and fisheries. The World Food Programme has done a considerable job to combat hunger globally since it was founded in 1961. Hunger control has also contributed to conflict mitigation in vulnerable areas. Therefore, it is very unfortunate that the government implements significant cuts in the allocation of the World Food Programme in the State budget and in the agreement with SV. Good food soil is important in order to have a good food supply. I would like to inform you that an incubation has added a note related to cultivated soil and soil protection that contains errors. The note should refer to the fact that the Hurdal platform has deviated from the set years for the soil protection target for the maximum re-disposal of cultivated soil per year; the reference to 2000 Decar by 2025 would have been 2000 Decar without specified targets. That was the main point. The Solberg government prioritised the work related to sustainability objectives through the Prime Minister leading a group on sustainability objectives. We in the Right hope that the new government will follow our example and give sustainability goals a central role in its work. When we had an interpellation about this not so long ago, all government councils except for Gram with their absence, but he is going to have for his heroic efforts in the hall that day. There were many posts from the opposition, but also from the position. To achieve all the objectives, cooperation is required and therefore the whole of Norwegian society is invited to work together to achieve the sustainability objectives. I hope that, despite our political differences, we can find good solutions to how we, as a small country, can contribute to our great work. The world community came together to point to some goals about how we can create a better world and a better life for us living here. There are targets that at first sight can seem large and distant, something big and bureaucratic; some people like to call it visions and celebrations from great international forums that do not get any concrete out of it. But with the war in Ukraine, the world has had another major crisis, and it has come even closer. At the same time, the world faces several other crises. The pandemic is not quite over, and lack of food, medicine, education and safe growth are still in force in many places in the world. In recent times, we have learned that it is important for international society to come together and come together on some universal goals and values. The UN's sustainability target is so big that it takes an entire world to deliver it. But at the same time, they are so simple that you and I can contribute with our every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e288	The Sustainability Communication is our Norwegian plan to achieve the world's common objectives by 2030. Norway was a driver of adoption of the targets in 2015, and now it is our responsibility to put them in contexts we already have, measure what we do, and meet the targets. Together with the three initiatives of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Sendai Framework for Crisis Prevention and the Addis Ababa Summit on Development Financing, the sustainability goals are common to global cooperation. The work on the objectives is demanding. The national measurement points must be carefully selected and accurate, and the measures must be the same. It's about going from guessing good intentions to implementation. At the same time, we know that without a goal, we have no direction either. Nor should we lose optimism and confidence in a world where we in Europe too have now met again the atrocities of war. For the Centre Party, it is a matter of achieving as much as possible without over-exploiting resources. Here, it is natural to promote the reform of trust in the Government Agreements, which is driving globalization. The trust reform in the public sector shall restore confidence, time and power to those who constitute the first line and backbone of the welfare state. In Norway, high confidence in the population and democratic construction are a good starting point. Clean water and good sanitary conditions are sustainability objectives No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the hearing, several were concerned with water. Three out of ten people lack clean water in the world today, and water is crucial for public health. The Norwegian water supply network is old and on average leaks 30 pst. of the water produced and purified before it reaches us inhabitants. That we're measuring the share of drinking water produced that goes to play and renew the wiring network is reasonable. Water is also essential for food production. When we know that 3,000 litres of water are needed to produce one kilogram of rice, an important measure for world water supply is also to eat more Norwegian food. We can replace the rice with Norwegian potatoes or local barley, and that will help. Today we have too low levels of self-sufficiency in Norway. More national food production will lead to less cross- and cross-border food shipping. We have to eat more of what we can produce in our own country. Sustainable food production is also about distributing the food produced fairly, and thus about sustainability objective No. 10, on reducing inequalities in and between countries. Under the corona, for the first time in 20 years more people are starving in the world. And when Ukraine, the world's bread basket, is now occupied and in war, one of the world's most important grain chambers for the UN food program in starvation areas is hit hard. The government agreement makes the fight against hunger and food security an area of commitment in development policy, focusing on sustainable small-scale production and climate-smart agriculture. Food production is also about soil protection. Soil protection is a heart issue for the Center Party, and soil protection is sustainability in practice. Food production, food supply and climate change are set up against housing, rail and road. Now it's time for the food field to get the status it deserves. As far as soil protection is concerned, it was reassuring to hear the representative, Kapur, say that the comment from the Right and the Left was a misunderstanding, for us it was then wise to hear that our offensive target of a maximum of 2,000 dean redispatch was not good enough. Because of course, it's about, for all of us, building down the least possible soil, not as much soil as possible. At least that means the Center Party. I am pleased that we have a new government that has both offensive objectives and a clear policy to succeed in Norwegian agricultural policy. This Communication helps to raise awareness and cooperation both internationally and nationally. It's demanding that sustainability targets embrace so much. To succeed, we need to work together across different sectors and societal tasks. It's easy to make fun of the sustainability ring, but the circle of the 17 sustainability measures is a good symbol. Then we have to make sure that it becomes practical politics and not just something we adorn ourselves with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e307	For the Progress Party, many of the 17 bearer measures are also important. We find a lot of our policies in how we're going to measure them. Of course, I don't have a chance to talk about all 17 bearer measures in 5 minutes, but I'm going to bring out someone that's particularly important for the Progress Party, given both our policies and the time we're in, with war on our continent. When it comes to the one resource target that the previous speaker was also talking about, which relates to food, that is, removing tons, we have a great responsibility as a nation. I don't agree that we produce too little food in Norway. If we keep the fish away, that's right, but fish is also food, and Norway has a great responsibility as a seafood producing country. We have natural conditions that make our coast well suited for farming. That means we can produce a lot of salmon, a lot of food for the world's population, and it's a big responsibility we have. Therefore, it is important that this hall and Norwegian administration facilitate a resilient, good management of the aquaculture industry and ensure that we can use our natural resources to produce healthy and good food for the world’s population. We have also recently seen how important Norwegian technology and Norwegian fertilizers are to remove sulphur, to produce food. We see how challenging it is when gas prices rise and it becomes harder to produce fertilizers, and that we are now leading the next big price for the population both here and elsewhere. Now we have had power prices, we have had fuel costs, and the next will be food, out of many drivers, among others. the cost of fertilizers. There we have a great responsibility that we actually supply gas, produce gas and make sure that we do not rely on Russian gas, but that we can use Norwegian gas in that mixture. It is also important that Norway uses oil for fuel that goes heavily on oil, for supplies and heavy transport. It depends on us having a lot of oil and gas production in Norway, and making sure we don't depend on countries like Russia and Saudi Arabia – I could have rammed more. It is much better for Norwegian oil and gas industries to produce oil and gas, so it is important to achieve the sustainability target. Another measure of strength is pure energy for all. There are also very lucky Norway that has natural conditions that allow us to facilitate the production of more hydropower. We in the Progress Party have never understood why one should be so restrictive about using the hydropower resource, why not have a gentle expansion in a series of watercourses in Norway that could have ensured more energy, why we don't have a tax regime that allows us to renew the water force and produce even more pure energy for everyone. That would have been a good contribution in our time. Therefore, Norwegian oil and gas policy is extremely important. I note that the Progress Party is the first party to talk about Norwegian oil and gas in the debate on the Bearer Force Message today. It's really important, because we'll never be able to reach the yield targets unless we have income from that sector. That's what makes it economically possible for us to make new promises, that we just have an oil and gas industry, which is important. Therefore, I found it very strange that there are so few parties who use this debate to talk about the importance of petroleum activity in Norway. Finally, it's a force goal for peace, number 16, and it's extremely important. In recent times, we have been very reminded of the importance of peace. Our peace is primarily secured through our NATO membership, through our allies, the United States and European countries. It's unlikely that there's a party in this room that thinks we're going to withdraw from NATO. When our neighbouring countries are discussing entering NATO, it should have been a corollary that says that NATO is important to preserve our peace. In addition to building up our own defenses, our allies are very important. Once we've seen how unsafe our own continent is now, with an external enemy from the east, NATO membership should be indisputable in this room. That is why the Progress Party has clear comments that recognise the importance of NATO for our peace and for peace on our continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e324	There is no doubt that sustainability and sustainability targets are intervening in all areas. They are in all plans and decisions taken at all levels. It works with both the administration and politicians throughout Norway. We've got a focus on leaving behind a planet that's viable for our children, grandchildren and their children again, and it's going to be important in the policy we're designing. It is difficult to say something sensible about such a big message that embraces so much in so many areas, in very few minutes. All 17 objectives are important. At least I want to begin by pointing out that there might be goal number. 17 which is the most crucial thing, namely the ability to work together to achieve the 16 preceding ones. Without cooperation and not least the ability to see that everything is connected, including internationally, we will not be able to succeed. So fair distribution and not least a fair green shift is something that is reflected in this entire comprehensive plan. It certainly fits very well into SV's policy. I will only comment briefly on some of the minority proposals SV have in the setting. Fair distribution is about reducing Norway’s negative impact on other countries as well. That's why we have to make sure that we have our own measuring points for it. We therefore propose measures to measure precisely that. It's about seeing the whole thing and thinking globally to save a common planet. This plan is about the future, and it is the young that best understands it, and it is the ones who must live in it. SV therefore proposes that a representative of the young people of civil society be included in the National Forum on Sustainable Development Goals. We must listen to the young voices. The National Council of Norway’s Children’s and Youth Organisations may be a place to find a good representative, which can then cover a wide and wide range of areas. In the case of young people, it's also about knowledge. We therefore want to integrate the interdisciplinary theme of sustainable development into the curricula of English and mathematics. It is about looking knowledge and competence into future developments, and not least the ability to interact. To achieve the objectives, we need to take political control. We must reduce the power of market forces and give politics a governing role in the green shift. In concrete terms, and very topically now, we also propose in the notice that the government investigate a model for a state-owned electricity company. I don't have to spend time here today stressing how demanding the power and energy situation is with us now. Finally, I would like to mention the purchasing power, both privately and publicly. It is powerful and therefore also important. In concrete terms, SV proposes a guide to show the possibilities to choose sustainable in all purchases. In addition, it must be made clear to state purchasers that legislation should be fully exploited in order to choose sustainable, climate-friendly and environmentally friendly solutions. This message is important. It is an action plan, and that is perhaps the very most important word. We have to act. It doesn't keep up with words, good intentions and great plans. If we're to succeed in these 17 goals overall, we need to act, and we need to work together globally to succeed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e347	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e352	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e357	The representative Grete Wold has taken up the suggestions SV has on its own and together with Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e362	Ambitious targets require ambitious action plans, and the case we are dealing with today contains both. But we must remember that both goals and plans lose both speed and strength if there is no political will behind them. It may also be the most important thing to try to take us from here today, that there is actually a certain cross-political will in this room to make a difference in the areas described by the sustainability objectives – a positive difference, and that is uplifting. But to make a difference, one must start with a certain degree of critical self-reflection, as Spire and Forum for Development and Environment in their consultation opinions encourage us to do. The impact of Norway’s efforts to achieve sustainability targets on the ability of other countries to do the same is very important if the objectives are to be taken seriously as a whole. We must if we believe that sustainability goals are to be something more than a pin on the coat of politicians and other socially involved people. Red believes that both measurement points are needed to detect and measures to minimise the negative impact of Norway’s target achievement on other countries, and suggests this. I'm not going to systematically go through all the goals, because it would take a long time, but let me draw out some themes that engage Red in particular. Recently, the numbers of poor children living in Norway were presented, and it was discouraging, in fact just as discouraging as I feared, because there are 115,000 children living with persistent low incomes, also known as poverty. There are 115,000 children who do not have the same opportunities as other children, and that is our responsibility. Save the children challenge the government to halve this number. It is a challenge we should face, all of us, and a good milestone for the road to the first sustainability goal, namely the eradication of poverty, also in our own country. Another topical debate on the day: Norway’s contribution to global responsibility is to help poor people around the world through assistance and international engagement. It is now in danger of being significantly weakened. The government is opening up to drain the aid budget instead of spending the money on refugee measures here at home. It puts crises against each other and is not very sustainable, nor is it with and moves our commitment home when it blows here. That's how the forgotten crises arise. The aim of the aid nation must be to keep two thoughts in its head at the same time. We can afford both. I would also like to highlight gender equality in particular. As a proud feminist, I believe that women's struggle and gender equality are among our most important tasks, and I would like to stress that improved legal certainty for women must be given priority in the years to come. As long as women do not feel that they have real protection against violence and abuse, and as long as our legal system does not take abuse of women sufficiently seriously, Norwegian society is far from equal. As a minimum, real access to crisis centres for all women in Norway must be ensured and a consent law must be introduced. For the time being, both parts seem to be pretty far away. I also think this room should remind itself that women make 87.50 kroner for every hundred kroner a man earns, and that it is a political responsibility to close this pay gap. An equal pay pot for women’s dominated professions in the public sector, which are in addition to collective bargaining, is a step towards real equality and economic autonomy for women. Diseases most affecting women receive less attention than those most commonly affecting men, and research into women’s health continues to have lower status in research environments. It is a social problem and a threat to the basic principle that we should all have equal health care, regardless of gender. At the same time, it is also true that men have health challenges that do not receive attention — that is enough of them. Traditional gender roles limit the development of both women and men and suggest that it is important to have a gender perspective on health. The sustainability goal Pure energy I could talk a lot about. Europe is facing a struggle of interest when it comes to strong economic and political forces that stand in the way of the major structural changes and climate solutions needed by the world. Red will underline the importance of moving from fossil energy sources to renewables, but it is also important to bear in mind that the UN has warned that yes, we are in a climate crisis, but we are also in a natural crisis, and it is important to preserve the best possible nature. Once again, there are many ambitious objectives in this action plan, but the most important thing must be to avoid the UN's sustainability targets being a pin on the jacket to actually implement what it says. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal. I would also like to inform you that Red supports the proposal No. 8-12, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e388	The representative of Tobias Drevland Lund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e393	I'm glad we're getting a comprehensive plan on how we're going to achieve the sustainability targets by 2030. Norway must be an international driver for the pursuit of sustainability objectives, and it is important that we have a high level of assistance maintained. All objectives are important, but in particular the objectives of climate and education are close to the Left. Knowledge is the basis for democracy, value creation and well-being. One of the best investments society can make is investing in children’s knowledge and growth. The government carries out two dramatic cuts in education, both a cut in the 2022 budget of 662 million. kr and a half of Norway’s contribution to the Global Partnership for Education, from €3.7 billion. kr to €1.85 b.w. kr for the period 2021 to 2025. This is despite the fact that a total increase committed to this allocation in the RNB in 2021. In the autumn of 2018, an obligation was introduced for schools to provide intensive training to students who are left in reading, writing and billing in 1–4. class. We assume that it is followed up in all municipalities, despite the fact that several of the parties on the left-hand side voted against a special priority of reading, writing and billing on the first steps. Decentralisation and flexible education are important services for both young and adults in the districts. The government of Solberg put forward a strategy for decentralised and flexible education, and we assume that the government of Støre is following this up. Providing students in school with good knowledge of climate change is essential for understanding the causes of climate change, the consequences of changing climates and the ability to influence development. Both local and central authorities, teacher training and teacher prostheses have a responsibility to ensure that the theme of sustainable development is provided with concrete, research-based and committed content in the school. Climate and environmental challenges are among the greatest challenges we face today. Through the Paris Agreement, the world’s country has committed itself to limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. It will require a huge and rapid conversion of, among other things, power systems, transport and industry. Norway and Norway have good conditions for making a significant contribution to the green shift globally, among other things. through the development of new technologies, but the government adds up to the opposite. It must be more expensive to pollute, cheaper to be environmentally friendly and more profitable to develop new technologies and new green jobs. The offensive climate policy of recent years has helped to reduce emissions for several consecutive years. It has been well prepared for new industrial climate initiatives in Norway. Norway's main contribution to solving the international climate crisis is our international work. This concerns the conservation of rainforests, technology transfers and the creation of a climate fund that will invest 10 billion in the next five years. kr in renewable energy in developing countries. The left expects the Government of Støre to follow up this effort. Climate cooperation with the EU means that Norwegian climate targets are much more binding than the climate targets from 2008 to 2012. This also implies that Norway, among other things, must relate to the annual emission budgets. Then, as the representative Kapur explained in an earlier article, it has become an incursion regarding the soil protection objectives. That's why I'm not going into it any more, because I think the presentation to the representative Kapur was good. The keyboard fingers may have run a little too fast for your head, and you'll just have to include it in that context. Otherwise, I would also like to mention that one of the major challenges ahead, and one of those that might help us achieve sustainability goals faster, of course, is food production, both in agriculture and in fisheries. That's right enough, as the representative Njåstad said, we have more than enough fish, but I think the big challenge in the future is that we need to focus more on short-range protein. Short-range protein will make what we're now getting from the outside, we'll be able to produce ourselves, and then we'll also let the world around us have more chance of having just this kind of development that we have in Norway. One of the big, big challenges ahead is whether we have clean enough water. The North is in a unique situation in that context; it's one of the few places in the world where we have clean water and enough water. This is a challenge, also because the entire photosynthesis of course depends on water and what we take up through the plants. Therefore, food will be especially important in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e418	I would first of all like to give credit for finally getting a case to deal with how the UN's sustainability targets are to be followed up in Norway. The major innovation, when the 2015 sustainability targets replaced the Millennium Goals, was that this was no longer the objective of developing countries alone, it was the common goal of all countries in the world. The Green Party took this up early in Stortinget, back in 2015, through interpellations and proposals. At that time, the views of the Right-Fremskrit party government were that sustainability targets would be largely met in many developed countries, and they therefore voted against developing their own systems to follow this up. It's never too late to turn around, and I think it's positive that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in the government presented a big message on the follow-up to sustainability goals. The Green Party is not in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, so let me start by saying what I think is good in the communication. It is good and important that the communication from the Solberg Government is clear that sustainability objectives are to be a superstructure for government policy both nationally and internationally. I also think that the message provides a fairly good overview of what are good indicators to assess Norwegian achievement of the various targets, but with some exceptions, which I will come back to in a moment. But the big question is what consequences it will have for Norwegian policy that the Stortinget now says that sustainability goals are to be a superstructure for all policies. There is no doubt that Norway is at the forefront of many of the objectives, not least of poverty, equality, health and education, although we also have our challenges. However, on several of the targets Norway has a long way to go, and on some we are estrangements. It concerns climate, material consumption, and nature. Take Climate: One thing is that Norway for 2020 had one of the weakest climate targets in Europe, with only a target of cutting 7 pst. from 1990 levels. We do not know that clearly, while our neighbouring country has cut 30-40 pst. of its emissions. An average Swedish emits half of what an average Norwegian does. However, Norway is also the world’s eighth largest exporter of CO 2 in the form of oil and gas which contributes to 10 times higher emissions each year than those from Norwegian territory. It means that per capita only the inhabitants of Qatar, Kuwait and Brunei contribute more to the climate crisis than the Nordics do. This fact has the Right, Left and Christian People's Party government as usual disregarded in the message. Take nature: A total of 2,752 species are now on the red list in Norway – for the first time also wild and wild. Nevertheless, the government continues by government to extend untouched nature and allow the farming industry to enjoy nature throughout the country. And while the government's talking about that 30 pst. of the sea area in the world must be protected, we have protected only 4,5 pst. of our own. And then consumption: the most basic thing is our consumption. If everyone were to live as a Northman, we would need three Earths. Three of the most traffic routes in Europe are located in Norway. And I could still. I miss an honest and untapped mention in the communication in these areas and more precise and therefore also unpleasant indicators of how it is done. It is necessary for us to have a political debate and to build up on the major and fundamental changes we need to make in Norway in order to actually become a sustainable society. This is necessary if the follow-up to the UN’s sustainability objectives is to become something other than a party speaker. The Green Party supports and will vote in favour of several of the Committee's minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e442	The 17 sustainability targets with 169 targets describe a desired direction for the whole world's development. The objectives provide the framework for a migration agenda aimed at giving everyone a better life while preserving the environment. I think that even though we have a very different starting point around the world, there's something big about the whole world community being able to gather on some common goals in this way. The last decades have gone a lot in the right direction, economic development and health are in the right direction, there are far fewer who are starving and poor now than before, and considerably more are receiving education and working. But in the last two years, the arrows have turned around, first with the pandemic, which has pushed millions of people back into poverty – we know that those who were most vulnerable from before have been hit hardest – and now because of Russia's attack on Ukraine. The consequences are terrible for the population where, thousands have been killed, and millions are fleeing. Russia’s aggression has created new uncertainty in Europe and the focus has been on security policy. The crises show how sustainability targets are hanging together, Objective 16 on peace and justice has gained new topicality. The crises also show that the Western European countries are able to cope, policy has shown action. In sum, sustainability targets describe a desired state that is close to the society we already have in Norway. Our country is largely characterised by security, legal certainty and material prosperity. Education and health services are available to all; the community is characterised by cooperation and trust; there is high professional participation and relatively little inequality. Overall, Norway is one of the best countries in terms of sustainability, but in some areas we still face challenges. This is especially true of the factors that somehow show the back of wealth. We have a high material consumption and high climate emissions and therefore score poorly on sustainability targets 12 and 13. There are also challenges with natural diversity and sustainability objectives 15. The major challenge is for Norway, as for other Western countries, to implement a green shift where we further develop the welfare society while at the same time reducing emissions to an acceptable level, and we can ensure sustainable consumption. Report. St. 40 for 2020–2021 Targets with meaning were presented by the previous government. The attitude of the Municipal and Administrative Committee shows that there is broad consensus on the importance of sustainability objectives and their follow-up. There's a reason to be happy about that. The Storting Communication systematically crosses the 169 targets and shows the Norwegian challenges in relation to national policies. In terms of terms, it is also a kind of re-edited government budget, with policies sorted from sustainability targets rather than from departmental breakdown. That's the sum of a series of measures that make us draw in the same direction. It concerns instruments for innovation in enterprises and the public sector, how to make better use of public purchasing power, how to reduce high school drop-outs, how to make the local economy strong enough to finance well-being, and how to get better regulation to stimulate increased re-use – to mention something. Following developments over time, we use indicators and measurement points. Of course, they show only a small cut of reality; they indicate, but they provide a better basis for decision-making for business and politics. With figures for the measurement points, we will over time get time series and can feel the development towards 2030. The next time we write a big message, we'll be able to describe and analyse developments and the direction we're going in. In order to move rapidly enough, it is necessary for the top leaders of organisations and businesses to engage. The Government therefore establishes a top management forum for sustainability objectives. The Forum shall monitor developments up to 2030. The Forum shall contribute to the better achievement of sustainability objectives by discussing opportunities and exchanging knowledge on experiences, challenges and dilemmas. The work on sustainability objectives is about the daily decisions and actions of each organisation and sector. The Headquarters Forum is a meeting place for the development of a common knowledge base, the sharing of best practices and the discussion of target conflicts, conflicts of interest and dilemmas. The Executive Board shall provide insights from the local government sector, business organisations, employee organisations, non-governmental organisations and government activities. The Forum will be composed of organisations active in the field of sustainability and have a small solid core with state councils and other top leaders. The group will be complemented by professionals and leaders on the basis of the themes addressed. So the composition will vary from one to the next and include more.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e470	I would also like to thank the Council of State for his contributions. I fully agree that although we are a rich country with strong institutions and democracy, there is no doubt that we too have a job to do on several of the sustainability goals, not necessarily because we have not done enough work before, but simply because we are in development. There are ever new challenges, and then we must also have the capacity to change policy along the way. There is no doubt that if we are to achieve the goals that we have been adopting, these must be high on the agenda, they must be there all the time, and we must ensure that not only we who work in the Great Britain and in the Commune-Norway, but that civil society, the volunteering, the school, the jobs in private business also participate. So I'd like to ask the Council of State if he can say a little bit more about how to get good cooperation across sectors. The Council of State said a little about this at the end of its article, but would like to see a little more about how to achieve sustainability goals across sectors, especially between public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e477	I share the description given by the representative Kapur. It is true that although very much goes well in Norway, we also have our challenges. After all, we are all in politics precisely because we want to improve and develop this society further. So the sustainability targets are also important for this country. I just pointed out in my post to this top-level forum that we are now establishing as an instrument to see sectors even more across. It's a challenge. There is no doubt that we, not least a sectoral state, also meet the outside world, and where we need to think more across sectors and levels of government. Many of those who are in charge of sustainability in Norway are in the business sector, in municipalities, in the voluntary sector, and we want to connect these closer, among others. using the forum, to which the message has also been played.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e484	We have some comments about this in the setting from SV's side by hearing the young voices into the work to be done. In his speech, the Council of State was also in and referenced to this Top Leader Forum, which of course is crucial to coordinating efforts and making it all work together. I didn't realize that the Council of State mentioned something about a young voice – possibly from civil society – into that forum, but there are rumors that it might happen. Can the Council of State either confirm it or cancel it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e489	Yes, I can confirm that the forum is now invited to its first meeting. It will now be completely at the beginning of June. And in the constant – let's say – the core, as I mentioned, of organisations and interests that are invited there, it is also then a representative of the National Council of Norwegian Children's and Youth's Organisations. I fully agree with the representative that it is important to listen to children and young people's voices here, and LNU is precisely the organisation that carries out the organised child and youth work in Norway, so we think it will be an important participant in the forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e494	Today, there is a proposal in this case to include a representative of young civil society in the National Forum on Sustainable Development Goals. Unfortunately, this proposal seems to be voted down by the government parties. If we are to achieve the UN's sustainability goals, it is important that this has a broad anchoring in society, but also in civil society. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State why the government parties vote down a proposal to give a representative of young civil society a place around the table to the national governance group on sustainability goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e499	I have just confirmed that the youth will have a vote around the table in the national forum, through the fact that the National Council of Norway's Children's and Youth Organisations will be a permanent member of the forum. I can also mention that, in addition to the major Norwegian organisations, such as the NHO, the LO and the KS, the Forum for Development and the Environment will be represented. The National Committee for Agenda 2030 in the higher education sector is another group that will be represented. So in sum, I feel that we're responding to the wish that I believe the whole Storting has, of a broad and good representation of different interests through the appointment we've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e505	Of course, one of the most important things about sustainability is peace, food and not least knowledge/education. But in order to achieve these goals, it is important that food is produced in all parts of the country, so that one has those possibilities. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: Could something be more important now than getting a stronger focus in the sustainability message on short-term protein? Short-range protein makes us more self-sufficient in both agriculture and farming. It will also make the areas from which we are extracting protein today have more sustainable societies. Does the Council of State share my view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e514	Yes, I definitely do. The fact that we have Norwegian food security — short-range food — is unusually important. Although we don't make up a large proportion of the world's population, as a country, we can always afford to buy food from elsewhere, if it's getting hold of, well and mark. It's not given, either. It is a very important project for this government to strengthen national self-sufficiency, get it up from today's level. I recently, along with the Minister of Agriculture and Food, sent a letter to the municipalities of the country to strengthen soil protection. There is an important basis for producing this food in Norway. We are committed to an agricultural policy that increases self-sufficiency. We are also concerned about having a preparedness related to the storage of e.g. food grain, which has been removed by previous governments. So there's a bunch of bets here to make sure that, as the representative says, we can have an increased self-sufficiency of food and proteins.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e521	I'm not quite sure if the council fully understood my question. I agree that preparedness is important, but the greatest readiness has one in the existing production that is happening at all times. What I asked questions about, and now I'm going to be quite concrete: Will the Council of State and the Government take any action to increase the availability of short-range protein?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e528	What happens in both the blue and green sectors is important in producing more food. We are a major exporter of seafood, but we have large imports of agricultural products. That's exactly what I'm trying to stress: we have to produce more of this food ourselves, on Norwegian resources. It is the ambition – to raise the level of self-sufficiency, so that we are less dependent on imports. The current crisis in the world is just showing the vulnerabilities that exist, even for one of the richest countries in the world. If the supply chains fail, it is serious enough, and we must ensure a more offensive policy, which enables us to feed our own people as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e533	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e540	Petter Dass wrote at the end of the 1600s, without having read or had the opportunity to predict what would become the 14th UN Sustainable Development Goal: «The fish in the water, it is our bread, and we lose the hancem, then we suffer distress, and sadly need to suck. ‘... He wrote this out of a recognition of the vital importance of the coast and sea for life-saving and social development. For 10,000 years since our predecessors were fishing and fishing along the ice edge of what was to be our land, we have harvested, managed and stored ourselves from what the sea can provide. We are responsible for some of the world's most valuable fish stocks, such as: Atlantic cod, and we have largely managed this in a sustainable and good way. And we're going to keep doing that. But climate change and environmental impacts are challenging. Temperature rises are melting more and more of the ice on the earth and altering the currents of the sea. Marines have been going on for a long time and are a huge problem. The whale with the stomach full of plastic that had to be killed at Sotra in 2017, became a waker to us all, and we know that the world's oceans contain enormous amounts of plastic and are being added eight million new tons every year. This must be stopped. We now see many good initiatives with the cleaning of plastic in the beach zone and our archipelago. Many young people take part and have it as a summer job. We see companies specializing in the collection and recycling of plastic waste for new products. This is good, and we have to facilitate more awareness and effort. This is sustainability and circular economy in practice. Norway has seven times the land area at sea. This gives us opportunities, but also a great responsibility, in terms of management and food production to an ever-increasing population in the world. 70 pst. Of our globe is the sea. But we only produce 2 pst. of the food in it. We have more knowledge of space than we do of ocean space. Arthur C. Clarke said the following when he saw satellite images of our blue globe: "How inappropriate to call this planet Earth, when it is quit clear Ocean." So, how inappropriate it is to call this planet Earth, when it's pretty clear that it's ocean. The 14th UN Sustainable Development Goal has the following as its first objective: «By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce all marine pollution, in particular from land-based activities, including marine digestion and nutrient discharges» This is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e571	Will the world be a better place to live next year or the next ten years? Are we going to be able to cut enough emissions? Are we going to manage the conflicts we see in Europe now? Are we going to have enough food for people? Are we going to be able to overcome the increasing polarization? Can we get back to life in Oslofjord or produce enough pure power for everyone in Norway? Will women get equal pay for equal work next year or in eight years? Today's youth doesn't think so. Today's youth is much more pessimistic than my generation and generation before us – perhaps for good reason because the challenges are in line. And then I hear that the Greens claim that Norway has been a retard, and that the blue-green Solberg government was opposed to sustainability targets because we voted against some Greens' Greens' proposals in those hard days. Of course that's not right. In fact, Norway – with the Solberg government – was one of the very first countries in the world to achieve sustainability goals. This is what we did the year after the adoption of sustainability targets – fortunately, because Norway should take the lead. The climate is struggling, the emissions are increasing, and even if we can cut them here in Norway, we can't cut them internationally. They're going up. In recent years we have seen that false news and disinformation have fatal consequences in many countries in the world. We've seen it in Myanmar, we saw it in the United States, and we've known it on the body here at home in Norway. The biggest challenge is that those countries with the greatest opportunity to take action to achieve sustainability goals are also the countries where people live most comfortable lives. Just look at us in the hall here: we don't starve, we don't lack water, and we breathe clean air – at least like that. We have basically good health, and we're almost as many ladies as men. There's no war here. So how realistic is it to achieve the sustainability goals? We've solved a lot of big challenges before. In 1990, 36 persons lived. of the world in poverty. 1990 was not that long ago – at least I don't think so. Today we're down to 9.2 pst. It's a fantastic development because we've been actively working on it. That is what sustainability objectives are all about. I've been threatening – not just because I was born in the happy 70s, where everyone was very optimistic, but because we've done so much already. Less is poor, less hungry, more are educated. We have eradicated a wide range of diseases. Development works, and targeted action works if we work together, and if we promise together. That is what sustainability objectives are all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e584	I want to talk today about a couple of sustainability goals that I think are very important, and that we need to see in context. The goal of eradicating hunger is that all people should have access to nutritious food throughout the year. To get to this, more food has to be produced. The world needs more food. No need is more basic than the need for clean water and healthy food. Every country has a duty and a right to produce as much food as possible for its own population on its own resources. Ensuring their own people secure access to enough food is one of the absolutely most central tasks of a country, and it is also one of the most central tasks of all elected peoples in a country. We are in a time of great uncertainty about world market supplies. It's dangerous. We have seen time and time again that lack of food creates unrest, chaos and conflict. From the French revolution to the Arab spring and the war in Syria, lack of food has been the triggering factor. In some areas, the population uses between 30 and 40 pst. of its income on food. When food prices increase, there are huge problems. This was achieved in 2010 when drought in Eastern Europe, Russia and Ukraine led to export restrictions from the Black Sea region. Now we're obviously facing an equally serious situation. In Norway, too, we are vulnerable. The level of self-sufficiency in Norway is too low. Corrected for feed imports is currently barely 40 pst. Norway is, in fact, among the industrialized countries in the world with the lowest self-sufficiency. There's a close connection between food and energy. Energy is needed to produce food. More expensive energy provides more expensive food. For example, higher gas prices result in higher prices of fertilisers, which in turn result in higher prices of food. If we were to stop producing oil and gas in the North Sea in Norway, many poor people would be affected, for example because of this. will be a contribution to increasing food prices. The government is clear: the Norwegian petroleum industry shall be developed, not liquidated. The Government will facilitate the continued high and stable level of activity on the Norwegian base of the Norwegian oil and gas industry. The world needs energy, and the world needs more Norwegian energy. We're not going to be embarrassed, we're going to be proud to produce as much energy as the world needs. In Norway, we can help both to give the world more energy and, at the same time, to lower global climate emissions. I think we should do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e597	The Stortinget has rarely dealt with a matter that is experienced by too many people who are so swollen. There is no one who initially disagrees with the overall objectives; they are good overall objectives. But politics at its worst is when it becomes a theoretical exercise and one forgets how the policy actually turns out to be for those we are set to serve, namely the inhabitants. The issue of the sustainability objectives and the Norwegian Action Plan can be largely influenced by the fact that it is easy for politicians to clapp one another on their shoulders and to boast nice and beautiful decisions without really focusing on: what are the realities of the matter, how does this affect most people in Norway and internationally? That's what should be the most important thing. We also see that it is eager to achieve several of the basically good objectives here that have been given a symbolic climate policy, which has led to major challenges for most people and business. We now see it in Norway, with historically high petrol and diesel prices, such as: This is due to the choice of a climate policy based on symbols, not realities. And we have, as many people have been facing, challenges with sky-high power prices and high and rising food prices, which hit people with weak economies. When that's the reality, it doesn't help much that we in this room adopt beautiful goals. The Progress Party has always been a champion for the Norwegian oil and gas sector. We warned as the only party in the election campaign last year that building down the oil and gas sector would be irresponsible, because it would increase the power of countries like this. Russia and Saudi Arabia. Now we see the realities. We also know that the Norwegian oil and gas sector is actually the sector that is holding much of the key to securing the world. It helps to keep energy prices down, it helps to increase fertiliser production and thus food production. Today I must say that I am disappointed when I hear the Central Party standing on the pulpit with the index finger and saying that people have to eat less rice, and the Green Party believes that people have to visit family living elsewhere in the country, less. It's not a policy for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e608	I can agree with SV, which says that sustainability target no. 17 might be the most important of them all. I will nevertheless use my time to talk about another, very vital, theme, and that is sustainability goal No. 6: clean water and good sanitary conditions. In the world today, three out of ten people lack access to clean water, and nearly half the world’s population lacks access to functioning sanitary facilities. Norway supported developing countries with around One hundred million. kr for water and sanitation measures in 2020, and it is important that we continue support for water, sanitation and hygiene measures in selected multilateral efforts. Sustainability objective No 6 is not just important internationally. It's also very important nationally. The maintenance of the water and sewerage network in Norway is large, and the renewal and renovation of the grid will require substantial investment in the future. In Norway, we have no spare capacity for clean drinking water in a number of municipalities, and without a good alternative supply, critical shortages of water may occur in the population. At the same time, several waterworks face challenges to ensure hygienic quality, and municipal water and sewerage systems are often side by side in the ditches. Old and poor wiring networks result in large leakages, and some places disappear up to 60 pst. out of the water into the terrain. There is also a great danger that sewage will enter the drinking water in this way. This in turn increases the risk of drinking water-related diseases. Figures from Norwegian Water show that the total municipal investment demand by 2040 is estimated at 332 billion. kr. That means on average 16.6 billion. kr in the year of the next 20 years. Upgrading water and sewerage networks is expensive, but health costs can quickly get much bigger if we don't. To achieve sustainability objective No. 6 we have to work in Norway in most municipalities, not all of them, to re-enter the water and sewerage sectors. At the same time, we must help people in developing countries to have working water and sanitation facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e621	Activity, presence and knowledge are three words that have also been referred to as building blocks in the north. Activity is about economics, presence is about people who are being affected, and knowledge is going to provide us with tools to understand the consequences of political decisions, or what we need as building blocks to achieve the sustainability goals also in the north. Often when we talk about the northern areas of mainland Norway, Finnmark, the theme is how resources in the north are to be used to strengthen the settlement and economy of Finnmark, but much of the contingent resource fish, which would also give us light in the houses along the Finnmark coast, has been privatized through quotas, making it difficult for young Finnmarks to become fishers and thus create activity in the fjords and along the coast of the county. Instead, much of the fish is sent from Finnmark to China for further processing and comes back to the store in Vardø as a frying stick – and it is bad practice if sustainability targets are to be achieved in eight years’ time. Building blocks in the north are also about health preparedness, and the setting addresses sustainable cities and communities. A survey The Norwegian Medical Association carried out the last harvest shows that people in the north rely at least on the health care system. 27 pst. the people of North Norway are dissatisfied with the emergency response. The corresponding figure for the Western and Eastern countries is 11 and 14 pst. It is absolutely vital for fishermen's safety to be given the help you need when it is urgent. This also applies when women are about to give birth, because if women don't give birth, Finnmark and District Norway die out. Stopping climate change is ambitious. Coping with it in eight years will require a formidable effort. If we have a target of people living in Finnmark for security reasons, the Finnmarks actually have to have something left. The sustainability targets for the sea show that the fish have to go back to Finnmark. Sustainable communities show that young women need security when life’s greatest joy and birth approaches. Seven out of ten children in West Finland are born to women from Alta. Two thirds of the women have to travel to Hammerfest, 140 km from Alta, to give birth to their children. A maternity ward in Alta will ensure the safety of women and strengthen their preparedness in a future that will be wetter, flutter and tougher weather. If climate change is to be stopped, it is actually like no one has it as busy as a dead fish and feeding women. These two things are important for Finnmark, and if we're going to achieve the sustainability goals, we need to find good solutions for both. Then you have to work across departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e635	Two years of pandemic have made it harder to achieve sustainability goals. Where the world was to move forward, it has gone back or stood still. When famines, poverty, or health crises occur, it is often said that where children have the bad, girls have the worst. Internationally, in the health field, the concern is that the number of girls who are married and become pregnant while they are still children is getting higher, that maternal mortality does not decrease, that the number of genital mutilations does not decrease, that gender equality is reversed. In Norway, the challenges are quite different. Often it is the acute things that are prioritised in health, but with the sustainability goals we see the importance of the long-term work. Infant and maternal mortality, obesity, public health, mental disorders and drug addiction are just some examples where we know that there are no interventions and political changes overnight that make the numbers better – it's long-term work, and often you don't see results right away. Norway has joined the WHO target of reducing the early death of non-infectious diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, coal and cancer by 25 pst. by 2025. But this goal has already been achieved. The objective has therefore been pursued in the sustainability objectives, but reached with objectives of a third reduction by 2030. In 2020, the Solberg government launched work on a new strategy, including mental disorders, disorders and musculoskeletal disorders, as well as obesity. That work was put on hold to take in knowledge of the pandemic and the effects it has had. But this work we expect the Big Government to continue, so that we can also achieve these goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e646	Ensuring sustainable water management and access to water and good sanitation to all is sustainability objective No. 6th@item: inlistbox The message describes, inter alia: the Norwegian approach to sub-target challenges. Sub-objective 6.1 is about providing equivalent access to safe drinking water at an affordable price for all. The water and sewerage sector is an example of socially critical services that are already under severe climate change pressure. Increased density in many cities reinforces the challenge. Municipalities and companies are constantly working to adapt water and sewerage services to the new climate everyday life. Extreme amounts of rainfall, floods, sea level rises and droughts have triggered the need for costly infrastructure investments. In addition, many receptors have become more sensitive to nutrient administration, so that sewage treatment plants need to be rebuilt in order to remove several of them before the purified water is discharged. In order to ensure the delivery of safe drinking water and the proper management of wastewater, Norwegian municipalities, as the representative Linnestad said, must invest 332 billion. Infrastructural kr. About 20 pst. the need arises as a result of delays in maintenance. The other costs are allocated to natural replacements over the next twenty years, government requirements and climate adaptations. We also have challenges in overwater regulation. More extreme rainfall, combined with increased densities, leads to more and more frequent damage to buildings and infrastructure. Without preventive measures, the expected damage costs over the next 40 years will be between 45 and 100 billion. kr. Consequently, the socio-economic benefits of prevention are high. It is urgent to clarify the responsibility for establishing prevention measures and how to finance them. Climate change and the need for adaptation will affect the economy, communities and the ability to create new jobs of ordinary people. It will be important to work targeted and coordinated with climate adaptations. The Hurdal platform is clear that the government sees the need for climate adaptation and prevention, and that it will strengthen the preparedness by systematically strengthening efforts to prevent future extreme events, increase the NVE and the ability of municipalities to carry out this work and contribute solutions to the efforts of municipalities to close the gap in the rehabilitation and construction of water and sewerage solutions. In particular, a sectoral water law should also be promoted. This will be absolutely necessary to take our responsibility for solutions to a major challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e661	UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 16 shall promote peace, justice and well-functioning institutions. The promotion of democracy, human rights and rule of law is an important part of Norwegian foreign and development policy. At a time when developments are going in the wrong direction in many countries, it is more important than ever to raise the issue of liberal rule of law. A well-functioning rule of law with strong institutions and courts without corruption or political influence is essential to ensuring fair and equal treatment for citizens. When the justice system in a country works badly, it undermines people's legal certainty. If Norway is to have credibility on such issues, we must treat our own institutions with the respect that they and the rule of law deserve. The government’s proposal to reverse the judicial reform is an example of the opposite. In 2019, the Riksrevision strongly criticised both District Courts and Lawyers' Rights for a long trial period and poor use of resources. The problems were so serious that ‘it could go beyond legal certainty, life and health’. In the light of the report of the National Audit Office and a thorough investigation into the Court of Justice Commission, the Solberg Government promoted proposals for judicial reform. The reform was a compromise between the Commission’s proposals and the previous structure and had broad support from the hearing bodies. The reform has been working for almost one year, and the results are clear: the professional environment has become stronger, matters are being dealt with more quickly, and resources are being better used. Therefore, it is totally incomprehensible that the government will reverse the reform, and it is on the basis of a consultation note that is so weak that the Board of Regulators has given it its powers of control. Instead of accepting the challenges and not least the facts, the government will spend time and money on a reversal that is completely unnecessary. My advice to the government is to spend the money on what the courts themselves say they need. It is also very regrettable to see the arrogant and discouraging attitude of the government towards those who work in the courts and who are in the midst of a demanding process of change. The fact that the National Council responsible for the VG stamps all legal disciplines such as Oslo-elite and will listen to ‘common people’ is, to put it mildly, alarming. It is not only regrettable to professionals who are opposed to political leadership in a department without professional governance, it is regrettable to employees who are thrown into new uncertainty, and to children and vulnerable groups who suffer from the government's regional policy experiment. The arrogant attitude also weakens the confidence of the institutions. It's serious. What we see now is not a legal state worthy. There is a weakening of the Norwegian rule of law and its institutions – contrary to UN sustainability objective No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e684	Norway’s action plan to achieve sustainability targets by 2030 contains many words. Now we have to get this theme down to the grassroots. Now we have to get practical action. People have to see and experience what is profitable action in production life and in everyday life. Norway’s main positive measures to date are the elimination of taxes on electric cars. It's costing about 20 billion. kr per year and results are high. So let's see how that can be done. The centre party wants sustainable development to take place along the three dimensions of economic, social and environmental dimensions. It could mean putting the resource economy at the centre, reducing our material consumption in Norway, understanding ecology, understanding the interaction of nature – man is part of nature, man’s use of nature is absolutely central – and promoting a fair economic development with greater income balance, which provides security for people. The green shift shall be carried out within a democracy. It's going to have popular excitement. But then the green shift has to be defined. I haven't seen what that means yet. For me, at least that means we're going from fossil carbon, i.e. black carbon, to renewable carbon, i.e. green. It must mean that one has to bet on the primary industries. It's in the primary industries one produces the green carbon. It's in the fisheries, it's in the woods, it's on the ground. It's an undisputed professional, scientific fact. If we take sustainability target No. 15, on ensuring sustainable forest management, what does it mean in Norway? What do we want with our forestry? We should agree on the benefits of establishing a common sense of reality about what we want with forestry. This is a prerequisite for good debate and action. We have to get out of today's trenches with bandages, where those who want to take the forest out of use are talking about percentages here and percentages there. Those who run a forest are talking about driving the forest in exactly the same way that we've done in the past. We have to get out of those trenches. We have to put future forest management, i.e., cutting off all the forest, in the center. We have to cut it down, the government has to do it, a forest commission -- the last time it was done in 1951, it's 70 years ago -- that tells us what we want about forestry. So this forestry has to be financed, and it is then natural to fund it also by using CO 2 charges to improve forest management, so we can get a larger catch of CO 2. We're going to remember that 1 m 3 spruce timber captures 700 kg of CO 2, about the same amount as the emissions from 200 to 250 litres of diesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e715	In my article, I want to focus on UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 4, good education. When I have followed the debate, I have so far not heard much mention of this sustainability goal, despite the fact that good education is one of the best investments we as society can make. Not least for us who are concerned with combating inequality, it is important to remember that good education is the very best and most accurate medicine against inequality. Globally, under the government of Solberg, Norway has taken note of itself as an important contributor to education in the third world, and in particular for girls’ opportunities for good education. Education for girls is the key to sustainability. Unfortunately, the red-green government has chosen to cut dramatically in the Norwegian contribution to education and halved Norway’s contribution to the Global Partnership for Education, from 3.5 billion. kr to €1.85 b.w. kr for the period 2021-2025, despite the total amount committed to this allocation in the revised national budget for 2021. A good education is based on a good start. It is therefore essential to give the children in need, early efforts so that we avoid growing problems. The government of Solberg presented the Annual Report Closely — early and inclusive communities in kindergarten, school and SFO, which included a number of measures to prevent children from falling outside. The school's obligation to provide intensive training to students who are dependent on reading, writing and billing in 1–4. class is important in order to prevent students from being followed. Completeing school and education is essential for reducing exclusion in today's working and social life. The completion reform of the government of Solberg contains a number of good measures to give more people a chance to complete high school and contribute to society. The completion reform provided a historical extension of the right to complete secondary education. This work will be important to follow-up in the years to come in order to ensure that our children and grandchildren are well educated, adapted to their own abilities and prerequisites, so that each child can get the best possible start to life. It's sustainability.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e736	The sustainability objectives shall form the basis for Norway's policy. Even I think of this as the goals of the world, because the ambitions are so fundamental. There is no major disagreement in Norway or Norwegian policy about whether we should follow these; that is the way we are working to achieve the goals, there is disagreement about them. In some very important areas, I think the government is making the wrong priorities. Then I definitely think about the investment in education. Education is the key to self-realization, it is the basis for a country's sustainable growth, and it is about independence and progress for each individual, but also for each nation. When I look back at our time in government under Erna Solberg, there is one of the areas I find particular reason to be proud of. There are many, but especially this, that we prioritised education as a developmental policy objective. Through UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 4 Norway has undertaken to work to ensure inclusive, fair and good education and to promote opportunities for lifelong learning for all. These ambitions have not been sufficiently followed up by the government today. This is most evident in the allocation of the Global Partnership for Education, the GPE. The government has carried out both large cuts in the current year’s appropriations and cancelled Norway’s long-standing commitment, which had a total build-up behind it. This goes beyond the world of schoolchildren, but also places Norway's reputation as a credible aid partner in a very poor light. This is a current question. Ukraine is one of the countries where the GPE is planning a job, a work that started up before the current crisis, and the current crisis will make it even more important to have support from the GPE in the reconstruction of the education system. GPE can be a very important support player in the future and Norway is not sufficient. We understand that a very large part of the attention now goes to emergency humanitarian conditions in Ukraine, and we support that. But the government's cut in education came before the invasion, and I intend to continue to demand greater commitment from the government in this fundamental area and to fulfil our obligations and our world goal no. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e749	Decent labour and economic growth are sustainability objectives No. Eight. It implies that we have to create values in terms of jobs for the population and tax revenue to the state. The pandemic, the power crisis and the war in Europe help to speed up several of the country’s economic challenges, and in combination with a climate crisis, the pressure for change is enormous. In the years ahead, reforms and priorities will be needed to ensure future generations a decent pension and a sustainable welfare country that is there for those who need it the most. Anyone who can, must contribute, and it is up to us politicians to facilitate the inclusion of more people in the world of work. Our value creation begins with a business that is not burdened down by high taxes, and jobs are ensured by the flexibility and predictability of business they ask for. The government has recently sent to the hearing a proposal for severe restrictions on the flexibility of Norwegian working life. Labour hiring is prohibited in large parts of Eastern Europe and access to rentals is generally considerably reduced. The consequences of this are not fully investigated, and there is reason to fear that businesses will be put in a situation where leavencies will increase in calm periods, and that fewer foreign workers – on whom we are totally dependent – will not come here to work. Fixed positions should clearly be a general rule in Norwegian working life, but we also need to adapt to the realities that exist there. In all municipalities in Norway, small and medium-sized employment agencies provide Ola Nordmann with their first job and find the right people for the local business community. Prohibiting this does not in any way contribute to achieving the sustainability goals that we are pursuing. Thanks to a flexible working life and a business that goes well, we have the lowest unemployment in the long term. At the same time, we know that a major problem in the future will be the provision of labour to business. In addition, it is a problem for very many young people that they do not find their place, either in school or in society, and it is absolutely essential to intensify their inclusion, so that they do not become permanently disadvantaged. The Solberg government started this work, among others. by providing a wholesale message of exclusion. Instead of following up on the measures in the notification, the government has now withdrawn it. We also opened up the possibility that both private and public labour market measures could help tailor a race to the individual. The question is what kind of policy the government will take to meet the challenge of young people who are unemployed and a business that calls for labour. At present, there are restrictions, bans and increased taxes that appear to be government solutions to achieve sustainability objective No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e760	A fundamental principle behind the 2030 agenda is that no one should be left out, «leave no one behinderd». This means that the development we achieve in the coming years should not be at the expense of individuals, groups or countries, but in particular benefit the most vulnerable and marginalised. In this context, I would like to focus my attention on the digital outside cabinet. The gap between digital ‘innership’ and alienation has grown even larger under the pandemic, as tens of thousands of Northmen in a few days and weeks took digital seven-mile critiques. In a hurry, video meetings and electronic playtimes were commonplace for many, while others were unable to hang out. Recent studies show that at least 600 000 inhabitants are struggling to master digital tools and services. Most people are over 65 years of age, but also people with different disabilities, people with drug problems and mental health and immigrants with low language and technology skills experience falling outside. Others who struggle with digital exclusion are people who have financial problems and therefore cannot afford to buy digital tools or who are refused to subscribe to mobile networks and the Internet because they are not creditworthy. The ‘digital first choice’ principle has been established by the authorities and an important ambition in both public and private service production is for all citizens, traders, non-profit organisations and customers to communicate digitally. But the father is that digital first choice becomes digitally forced. We have to take seriously that over half a million Nordics are struggling to perform digital services that most of us take for granted. Many people need help from relatives, friends or volunteers to use digital services, such as online banking, healthnorge.no and nav.no. Users are then forced to share sensitive information with others. It makes them vulnerable to exploitation, and they lose control of their own economy. Many describe that lack of mastery in everyday situations breaks down their dignity and causes them to isolate themselves instead of visiting friends or making errands. The point of digitization is that it's going to make life easier for people. For those who find it more difficult, alternative solutions should be available. Digital solutions must be universally designed so that everyone, including persons with disabilities, can use them. We still need to keep pace with the implementation of good strategies in order to ensure and implement effective and secure digital services for our citizens. It's practical, flexible and easy for most of us. But we probably have to realize, first of all, that there will always be someone who needs more analog channels to contact banks and public agencies. The option is for many weak groups to be excluded. They become 'left-brained'.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e773	One of the finest things about Norway is that there are people living in all over the country, and that we have living communities and safe jobs where people live. This message is good news in this way, because it shows that Norway has good conditions for achieving the sustainability goals, and it shows that we need to use people and resources across the country to achieve the goals. Let me do two examples that illustrate that: two sustainability goals that hang together. Rarely has a government shown such an ambitious willingness to invest in agriculture, with the aim of pursuing an agricultural policy adapted to the country in which we live, where we are also aware that incomes will rise. In this way, we help to ensure the population with enough safe and healthy food, and we provide sustainable agriculture where we produce more of the food we have to produce and as consumers demand. It will be an important contribution to working towards sustainability goal No. 2, to reduce hunger. Today's government will pursue policies for stronger communities, growth and positive development throughout the country, both urban and rural. For this government, jobs and well-being are the most important thing in district policy. Sustainability objective No 11 takes into account living cities and communities. We will launch new measures to create optimism and confidence in the future throughout Norway. If we are to make people live in and move to the districts, important services, such as kindergarten, school and health care, have to be nearby. All residents shall have access to broadband and good critical infrastructure, such as road and ferry services. Many people are aware of a feeling that the state has left them. This government is going to do something about it. State centres for services such as passports, driving licences and legal advice are one of several examples of how we rate services and jobs close to people. Then it's not just words; then we also show action. If Norway is to reach the climate targets, the job must be done throughout the country, not least in the municipalities. Then there is a government that has great ambitions for the whole country, which is going to develop new and strengthened district policies to reduce differences between people, and that is going to distribute power and resources across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e786	At the hearing on the Sustainability Communication, the Church Council's Atle Sommerfeldt called for civil society in the Communication. Summerfield also wanted concrete tasks for civil society. The central party will point out in the volunteer year that the new government both sees the value of and values volunteering. This is why one of the first steps we took in the autumn budget was to ensure full voluntary VAT compensation – a long-term and important step to strengthen the voluntary nature of Norway as a whole. In addition, last Friday’s proposals for action crowns in the context of the refugee crisis amounted to 45 million. kr to the work of non-governmental organisations on recreational activities, language training and meeting places for Ukrainian refugees. The volunteers have a unique and decisive role to play in the work ahead of us as societies to help the Ukrainians flee from war. This is sustainability target 17 on cooperation in practice. The library is another example of an important meeting place for people. On Saturday I was at Deichman, Oslo Municipal Library and Norway’s largest public library. Here I experienced a modern library where people of all generations filled the house. In this Moortua people also sat completely immersed in their own world, in a game, in a book, behind a screen or behind a sewing machine. A library may be so lacking, but the green thread in it all is sustainability. All municipalities in our long-term country have library services for their inhabitants. Borrowing books is still one of the most sustainable ways to share knowledge. Generation after generation can read, learn and return timeless knowledge and lyricism printed up on green carbon or as sound files. The libraries show that climate-friendly, sustainable and green choices do not need to be groundbreaking radical or intervening in people's lives. We've always found good solutions to people's everyday needs, and at the same time help solve our major challenges. When the libraries were first established, they probably didn't focus on circular economy, but they gave dearly needed knowledge to a wide range of the population. Today, libraries are a good example of terrestrial circular economy in practice because it cannot be described as anything but new ways of practicing terrestrial circular economy when, on a Saturday at Deichman, six sewing machines are loaned to, for example, Deichman. to patch clothes and extend the life of good garments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e794	The Sustainability Communication is a comprehensive document. The 2030 agenda has been put into practice through 17 sustainability objectives and 169 targets. The UN encourages Member States to develop national indicators. It will make it easier to assess target achievement, but at the same time it will have to be limited so that it does not generate unnecessary bureaucracy. It is particularly important that municipalities do not impose extensive reporting obligations in even more areas. Many of these 169 targets may also be contradictory and balances may need to be made between the different objectives. This balance should be made as far as possible at municipal level and as close as possible to the population. The main priority must be to balance economic and geographical inequalities, and then we must avoid increasing centralisation. The most important thing for most people is good health and quality of life, as mentioned in Objective No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Hurdal Platform clarifies government health and welfare policy. A strong public health service and a strengthened local economy are a prerequisite for balancing health inequalities. Psychiatric illness is an increasing problem, particularly among young people. That is why the government has strengthened this field considerably and works specifically for zero vision for suicide. Feeling safe to get help if something happens is good health prevention. In recent years, we have had a development in which those living outside the largest cities have felt that security has gone away, the ambulance is further away, and the police are barely present – and fire and rescue are the only ones with acceptable response time. This is what we are about to turn around. Everyone has the same security wherever they live. Ambitious goals that society has set must apply to all of us regardless of whether you live out of the ocean gap or in the deep forests. The Hurdal Platform has a number of actions. Strengthening the local economy provides greater opportunities for health prevention work. We propose a gradual introduction of school food and the promotion of physical activity — to mention something. The fight against antibiotic resistance is another important step, and we should facilitate increased meat production in order to avoid imports from countries with extensive use of antibiotics in production. Sustainability target 12 is about responsible consumption and production. My cappphest has reduced food loss. After 30 years in the grocery store, I am still shocked at how much is being thrown. We have to produce that consumer demand, and we have to stop throwing food. You have to stop pretending that small carrots with odd shapes are not edible, that they taste worse than big carrots. Vegetables should be sold in bulk and we must have less requirements for shape and shape.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e809	decent work and economic growth – sustainability objective No. 8 sounds: ‘Promoting sustainable, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full employment and decent work for all.’ This is based on the decent work agenda of the ILO. The main priority of the Labour Party is security for jobs, job security, more permanent employment rather than hiring and temporary jobs — and strengthening the serious and organised working life and increasing efforts to take criminal action in the workplace. We get — if not daily, so weekly — feedback from people that the safe and organised working life in Norway is challenged by unprofessional actors, social dumping, pay theft and low levels of organisation in vulnerable industries, as in the construction industry. It contributes to increasing disparities, weakens the Norwegian model and weakens recruitment to important professions. The main oil in Norway is the labour force and their efforts. Security and productivity, which have been the main competitive advantage of Norwegian employment, are threatened and must be taken seriously. That is why I am pleased that the government is working and will pursue an active policy to prevent people from being exploited at work, to combat social dumping and to ensure that the community is not deprived of income. Large-scale cleaning in order to ensure firm, full-time jobs and decent pay and working conditions is essential to deliver on sustainability targets 8. We want a safe and fair working life for everyone. Together with a strengthened trade union movement, the Workers' Party will fight social dumping and labour crime, limit temporaryity and renting, ensure that more people can work full-time and bet on lifelong learning and skills. Then we will also be well equipped to meet the great change that the green shift requires of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e825	The government's work on restoring independent courts after the Solberg administration's judicial reform is in progress. Sustainability is an interesting word in this regard. The reform of the Court of Justice is based on the opposite, namely a political change and a fragile compromise. The court reform in its original form, which several here probably remember, went on a defeat and did not get a majority. It was actually linked to a preliminary work through the work of the Court of Justice. However, you cannot say that about the solution we have today. There we have a structural hybrid solution, with departmental offices and traveling management. Is there any of the actors who in the last year have considered the challenges in the Norwegian Court of Justice that have presented them as a solution? No, that's not it, for who could well imagine the political compromise that happened in this case in 2020. Promoting the rule of law nationally and internationally and ensuring equality of law, legal certainty and legal protection for all is part of sustainability objective No. 16th@item: inlistbox It means, for the Central Party, that everyone should have equal access to legal services. Legal certainty is about several things, but also about access to good justice. A prerequisite for this is not just a local court, but a legal professional community linked to the courts that know local circumstances. The consequences of the judicial reform for other aspects of the professional environment in the judicial system – lawyers, lawyers, interpreters, etc. – or for the availability of the public or other local ring-effects, the implementation of the judicial reform was not affected at all. Legal certainty in the form of access to legal aid also means not spending disproportionately long time on transport, not having high travel costs, and that the party who is to testify, or for other reasons is to face legal proceedings, does not suffer worse than those who live in other places in the country. Recovery of independent courts is not a district policy experiment, as some claimed here before today. There is a strengthening of legal certainty for the inhabitants of District Norway. The Central Party considers that independent local-led courts are a fundamental principle for maintaining a decentralised court structure in Norway and that the current structure is not sustainable for the future, because it makes smaller local-led courts more vulnerable to job losses. The near-police reform, which never made the police more close, but organised the police away from the population, is another challenge. We'd like to talk about the future and how we're going to ensure more sustainability, but it has to be done through the very values we're talking about here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e836	For the Workers' Party, a good public school and equal education are essential for equal opportunities for all. Freedom and security for all are only possible if we join together. School access to all and the possibility of education and skills re-filling throughout life are just the way to freedom, personal income and independence. With a good public school and a strong public education system, we can reduce differences. Meeting in classrooms across cultures, sex and background has a self-esteem. In addition to giving every single opportunity, we're building down barriers. We create meeting places and give our children an arena to build trust. If there's something we don't have enough of in the world now, it's trust. In a troubled world, education is just part of building hope. At home, the government prioritises education. With the Labour Party in government, we're going to bring down the differences, we're going to strengthen the team around the children, and we're going to give the employees more time and more trust. The government has increased the free revenues of municipalities by a total of 4.5 billion. kr – 2,5 br. kr more than the original proposal of the Solberg government in the State budget for 2022. It gives room to strengthen the team around the children. If there's something we know about the consequences of the pandemic, it's just that made around the children is important. Thousands of students in each coal do not complete high school. Half of the hours of special education are conducted by unqualified persons. Since 2013, we have seen a doubling of young people. A lot of people don't have a place to learn. At the Solberg government guard, we saw a marked increase in private school places. This is the opposite of building down barriers. This is the legacy of the Right. This only underscores the need for a new course in education policy, a course that is just being set at public schools. If we are to give our children a school where everyone learns well, nothing is more important than the teacher. This is precisely why the government maintains the commitment to developing the skills of teachers. The Party's involvement in education does not stop at national level. Sustainable goals are closely interwoven, and good education for all, whether in Norway or elsewhere in the world, will be one of the most important contributions to achieving the other objectives. I'm proud of the work the government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e851	There have been a number of articles about the legacy of Solberg, and I'm not going into all of that now. I think the theme we have today is a little too general to dive into it. I can carefully say that an important part of Erna Solberg's legacy is that we are dealing with this sustainability message, and that is true. I really took the floor to thank you for a good debate. I think it's important that we have at regular intervals a debate where we get to look at the things that bring us together, no matter what part of the society we work in. I also want to thank the case rapporteur for holding on to a matter that I know has been quite difficult and took a lot of time. But we feel that, as the committee, we have been given a thorough consideration of an important matter. Such cases are often at risk of encountering two types of fate. One is that we have a huge commitment when they are adopted, and keep a lot of good stuff about them, but then they unfortunately end up in the drawer afterwards. The other fate that this kind of thing can unfortunately often encounter is that they are being neglected or called for parties and big words. As a result, it is attempted to underestimate the importance of the documents. We have to make sure that none of those parts happen. I think the best way to do that is to always show the results related to the achievement of the goals and the difference they actually make in people's lives. I think that's the most important equivalent of that kind of destiny. Therefore, my hope is that Norwegian municipalities in particular will continue their work on this. I am very pleased that this matter comes to us in the Municipal and Administrative Committee. We are a lot out there meeting municipalities and counties, and we know that a Norwegian municipality is actually Norway in miniature. There we also get a lot more knowledge of how this work is going. I also hope that businesses, volunteering and other parts of society will feel that working for the goals pays off. We must contribute to this through policy development, completely independent of the party. And then I hope that we can, at regular intervals – without me having phased into it – address these goals in our committee or in the Stortinget and in an appropriate way see how things are going with the work. I think it's an important matter that we, as elected representatives, also have to keep high.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e864	Thank you very much for a very good debate. I would also like to thank the case spokesperson for a very good job with the case. There are several elements in this debate in which the Labour Party and the Right can disagree, or all parties in so far. The most important thing is that the vast majority of people here today have been able to raise their eyes on what's about setting global goals into a national context, and not least talk about what it's important that Norway does to achieve sustainability goals. It was probably only the Progress Party that was able to land in the one ditch that my colleague from the Right was just warning against – to mention this work and this message as 'frozen' and 'theoretical'. It's not a theory when more people here today say that we have to do something about water policy. It's not a theory that we have to take back the violent aftermath that's going on in the municipalities of the country. It is not just theory when we say that we need to further develop knowledge-based work against radicalisation and extremism. Nor are theories and foul words when we say that we will now have major cleaning in Norwegian working life. Nor is it a theory when several of us here today say that we want to strengthen food production in Norway, or that we – and we are quite a few of them – are forced to invest in more renewable energy. Nor is it a tumultuous theory when we say that we need to increase efforts in the area of prevention and preparedness for health crises. Nor is it a theory when we say that Norway should focus on women's rights and equality in development policy. I could keep it that way for a long time, but we don't have time for that. But I totally agree with Mudasar Kapur when he says in his post that we must not end up in this important debate for Norway and for the world. During the hearing we had 27 actors inside – very good recordings. What went on among several of them was that we have to remember to do the work with the load measurements concrete and comprehensible, and not least it has to be possible to verify them. There I agree entirely with Heidi Greni in her contribution, she stressed that we must not now red tape work with the bearer. We have good dialogue with Norwegian municipalities and municipalities, so that we can do it in a good way: global objectives in a Norwegian context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e877	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e894	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e903	This case is a follow-up to the extension of the Husleietvist Committee last September to the whole country. The HTU is a government agency that provides objective guidance to both the lessee and the lessor on housing. In the event of a conflict, the LVC may go in and resolve the case through mediation rather than being decided by a decision in the sample. As HTU became a nationwide provider, there is also a need to amend the provisions of both the Housing Rental Act and the Legal Aid Act. The majority of the Committee considers the legislative proposals to be a proper adaptation after the extension of the HTU to the whole country. In this context, the Committee demonstrates that HTU has implemented new solutions for digital mediation meetings between the parties, which have been well tested in the coronary apathy in both 2020 and 2021. The fact that digital meetings are a general rule ensures equal mediation for landlords and tenants throughout the country. There is broad support for amending the House Rental Act. A total of 16 hearing bodies have delivered their views and all hearing bodies which have delivered their opinions support the proposals. There is a shared view of the amendment to the Law on Legal Aid, as the consultation also shows. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, support the Ministry's proposals as set out in the Proposition, and emphasise that the amendment of the law is intended to reflect and not modify the applicable law. It will still be possible to obtain free legal advice in such cases through a separate derogation provision, as the Ministry also stresses in the proposition. This derogation will then be a safety valve to ensure that vulnerable groups receive the legal assistance they need. The recommendation of the Committee shall be promoted by a Joint Committee, with the exception of the I of the Recommendation, promoted by the members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Progress Party. I refer you to the comments in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e918	The extension of the Residential Property Committee to the country as a whole increases legal certainty. While the Husleietvist committee before the extension had a scope that covered approx. 47 pst. Of all the rentals in Norway, all lessees and tenants throughout the country now have access to the Household Rentals Committee. Secure living conditions are incredibly important to everyone no matter where you live in the country. The experiences of housing rental services in Oslo, Trondheim and Bergen have been good, and that experience is now benefiting the inhabitants of the whole country. At the same time, there is always room for improvement. It is good that the Ministry of the Ministry of the Department of the Housing Liaison Committee should give priority to making the proceedings more user-oriented and effective and at the same time further develop the information business and make the dispute resolution offer more widely known to people throughout the country. The LVC has introduced new digital solutions for mediation meetings between the parties, ensuring equal mediation for tenants and landlords across the country. The change in the law is an adaptation after the House Leasetvist committee became nationwide, and all of the 16 actors who have responded to the law are positive to the change in the law. It's meant to reflect, not change, the current right. The government’s proposals will not change the legal status and therefore not weaken legal certainty, as some suggest. It is still possible to obtain free legal advice under the derogation provided for in the third paragraph of Section 11. It is an important safety valve that ensures vulnerable groups the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e925	A safe and secure home is probably the most basic need we humans have, and therefore it is very important that it is ensured in our law. SV supports the proposals for changes to the House Rental Act, and hearing recordings are also built up under it, as the rapporteur explained well. Household rental committees throughout the country shall be professionally independent bodies. It shall also be possible to obtain information from the People's Registry, where necessary. We must assume that careful consideration of when and how it is necessary to ensure that all interests are taken into account there. When it comes to the amendments to the Law on Legal Aid, we disagree. It is proposed to remove the right to freedom of justice in these cases, and the hearing bodies unisonably agree that this is not a good idea. This freedom of justice is not used by many, nor is it expensive. But it is considered very important for those who need it, those who do not have the opportunity to benefit from other schemes. The Association of Lawyers writes that the right to housing is fundamental, and therefore it is also important for those to whom this matter applies. It should certainly be a priority area of the Law on Legal Aid and must not be removed from the Law on Free Legal Assistance. The lessors’ association argues that the proposal appears to be unfounded and without any basis in the facts, as they know them. They stress that it must be wrong to exclude those with the greatest legal and economic challenges, the assistance they can get through just free legal advice. It can be argued that this is a minor adjustment and that it will only give a more unified arrangement. But in any case, it is not necessary to remove this now, when we are still waiting for a comprehensive and new law on legal aid, which is just about to ensure a good consistent practice in this area. The Pensioners’ Association considers that the Husleietvist Committee should have worked for at least five years before amending the Legal Aid Act. We hope that a comprehensive and better law enforcement law will be in place in good time before then. SV is therefore not behind the recommendation I, but we are behind the other points in the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e940	I agree with a brief explanation of vote, as the Municipal and Administrative Committee has been going on for many hours here today. Red shows, among other things: to the Association of Lawyers, the Leieboerföreningen and the Norwegian Association of Developmental Disabled People, which considers that removing the reference to the Housing Rental Act would be to weaken the legal certainty of groups which are initially not in a strong position in the housing market. Redly, this concern is shared and believes that access to free legal aid needs to be strengthened and not weakened in any way. Therefore, Red is going to vote against the Committee's recommendation to I, but we are in the other points of the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e948	The left considers that the right to housing is a fundamental right which is very important to the person concerned. Therefore, housing issues should be a central area of the Legal Aid Act. Furthermore, termination cases under the House Rental Act § 9-8 are serious cases that differ from other house rental conflicts under the same law. We also refer to point 4.4 of the bill, where the Ministry emphasises that assistance provided by the Husleietvist Committee is in the form of general information and guidance on the legal rules and practices in question, not advice on how to deal with a dispute. Such guidance is different from such legal assistance provided by lawyers to tenants in cancellation cases under Sections 9 to 8. Lawyers are party representatives who, upon confirmation of the contract, provide legal assistance to clients in conflict situations with one or more counterparties. HTU cannot and is not intended to replace such legal assistance as will be needed in termination cases under the House Rental Act § 9-8. Therefore, it has not been given that the guidance HTU provides, covers or replaces the need for free legal assistance, cf. Section 5 of the Law on Legal Aid. The left further indicates that the department in the same place writes that about 95 pst. of the cases for HTU are self-proclaiming after the day's arrangement. The Association of Lawyers informs the Committee in its letter of consultation that the legal aid you are entitled to in those cases is six hours of counsel, and that there are not many who receive that legal aid today. These are between 144 and 214 cases in the last years, with an average cost per case of between NOK 1 175 and NOK 6 798. The question of free legal assistance in housing leases is addressed in NOU 2020: 5 Similarity to the Act – Law on Legal Assistance. Since the amendment to the Law on Legal Aid concerns a smaller number of cases and legal advice differs from the guidance that HTU can provide, it is appropriate to wait until the proposal for a new Law on Legal Assistance has been submitted to the Stortinget. Therefore, today, the Left promotes the following proposal: «The government asks the Government to return to the question of amendments to Section 11 of the Second paragraph of the Law on Legal Aid. 4 in the context of the bill on new law on legal aid.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e961	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e966	I'm glad the house rent committee is now covering the whole country. Now, all tenants and landlords – including in the districts – have access to a fully-fledged guidance and dispute resolution body in matters of great well-being. This is a clear strengthening of the legal certainty of tenants. Enlargement has already been made through regulatory changes, and it is important that the extension of the housing lease committee is also reflected in the law. The Government has therefore submitted proposals for changes to the Housing Rental Act and the Legal Aid Act in order to follow up the extension of the geographical scope of the Housing Rental Committee. I would like to make it clear that the changes proposed in the Legal Aid Act do not deprive the tenants of their rights today, nor will they weaken the legal certainty of the tenants. On the contrary, the changes will make it easier for the public to comply with the law. Such legal remedies are currently in place, it may appear that tenants who comply with the financial requirements are entitled to free legal advice in the event of termination. However, that is not the case. The legal aid law is structured in such a way that if the need for assistance is covered by other schemes, such as: public service and advisory offices will not be required to provide free legal advice. The LVC is considered as such an alternative scheme covering the need for assistance. As the LVC is now nationwide, all cases could initially be dealt with by the LVC. No lessee will therefore be required to provide assistance under the provisions that are currently being amended. On the other hand, regardless of the economy, everyone will have access to a body of expertise that can guide, broker and, if necessary, make decisions in house rental matters. I would like to emphasise that it will still be possible for tenants to apply for free legal advice in specific situations. This could be done, for example, by: is applicable in cases where applicants are particularly disadvantaged because of mental, physical or social conditions and do not have the ability to pursue their own interests. If the case goes to the courts, the lessee is also entitled to free proceedings if the economic conditions are met. The government has also proposed several changes to the House Rental Act, and I am happy to see that an overall committee is behind these changes. I believe it is important that the professional independence of the Liaison Committee is regulated in order to ensure the trust of users in an independent dispute body. This is a formalisation of what is already current practice. The Government also proposes that the Housing Lease Committee be given the right to obtain confidential information from the Public Register in situations where it is necessary to carry out the task under the law and the HTU Regulation. I believe that such an access will make it easier for HTU to find the respondent and report complaints. It'll be resource-saving. It would also be beneficial for the parties to reduce the duration of proceedings and the legal certainty of the respondent would be enhanced if the number of absences were reduced. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think it is good to see that there is a broad political consensus on the extension of the housing permit selection, and through the new digital solutions, tenants and landlords will benefit from the expertise of the selection regardless of where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e983	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e988	Completely short in relation to changes to the Law on Legal Aid. There's obviously a little bit different perceptions of whether this will weaken people's ability to get such legal aid or not. The Law Association is concerned, when this system is so comprehensive, that everyone has a real good opportunity to get help, and in addition – as the Council of State pointed out in the article – one can apply under special circumstances, which in turn would be a threshold to be able to obtain this help. Why is it necessary to change this now, when, in hopefully, we don't get too much time for a new law that will be able to see all these conditions together, so that we don't risk anyone falling through now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e994	I do not really agree that a change is now being proposed. It's the opposite of fixing what's current right today. It is true that parts of the country have been subject to thecoverage of the Housing Lease Committee where these rules have been in force all along. Now this is seen as a more technical follow-up by the fact that the sample now has a nationwide function.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e999	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for the debate on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1018	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1025	The proposed document 8, which we are now considering, from the Eskeland, the Location, Grotle and Stokkebø from the Right, on increasing the focus on and new solutions for the racial protection of infrastructure, contains the following recommendations from a Joint Committee: ‘The Government is asked to continue to develop holistic national racial and scaffolding plans covering all high and medium-speed scaffolding points, both for the national road network and for the county road network. The plans shall be completed before the end of 2023.» Racism is an important area towards Norwegian infrastructure, both road and other. The state has spent a lot of money on racial protection for many years, and now recently it has been secured for 2 billion. kr per year. The previous government increases the rights to race protection, and the 2 billion. kr is distributed on the highway and on the national road network. There are a lot of projects in Norway that are waiting when it comes to racial protection, and there are a lot of people running a little bit with the heart of their throats in view of the conundrum that race is towards the road, and that every single day throughout the winter period – and for the rest of the year – live with the conundrum about rock jumping and other types of walking as we see now, with slightly increased activity as a result of climate and weather changes. There's been a lot of that before, and there's been a lot of race before. In my own county, More and Romesdal, we have some of the most rusty points. Some of them are already racist. We've spent a couple of billion dollars on racial protection in the last year, but we need a lot more money, and that's the way it is in most racial groups around the country. Traditionally, there are the more common ways to race, perhaps with tunnels, telephone crossings, etc. to prevent traffic from the common points of race. This proposal focuses on new solutions and technologies. When it comes to racial protection, we have made great progress in Norway over the last few years in terms of anti-slip protection in general, especially in the mountains, which also includes roads. The large mountain circles located in Norway now, both in Stranda and Nordnes in Troms, have the skills that have been transported to Norway from both Switzerland, Austria and Italy, which means that Norway is perhaps the world's foremost in terms of anti-slip protection with other, new and modern technologies. This type of technology has also been used against road – the state road system has used it in a number of areas. Looking at and using new technologies against racial protection becomes important in the future. It's because one can race secure multiple points, multiple postponements, and use the money even more rationally than just building expensive, big tunnels. So one can do it with new technology. There may be warnings in the form of radar equipment capable of scanning the mountain sides and following rock-mass motion, but one is now considering doing the same for snow. One of Norway's largest travel life icons, Geiranger, now gets a racist tunnel, but there's an area down by the sea called the Grandestrand, where it's about using a similar warning system where you can scan and monitor the mountain mass using snow, and have warning and closing the road by traffic lights. It will be a reasonably safe method. So new technology is important to use in the future. There is also a point made by the proposers here, and the same applies to some of the other proposals that have been made. New technology is incredibly important to bring with it. One doesn't have to be so that one just has to race safe 100 pst. It might make sense to race safe with some percentage lower and use new technology. Then you get one more for the money and you get more areas of rassy. Proposal No. 1 to 5, shows slightly different solutions. I refer to the proposal and the author no. One-four, which includes the signatures, it's taken up. Otherwise, I refer you to the comments on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1047	The representative Frank Edvard Sve has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1052	Hearing that citizens are unsafe on the way to school, work or kindergarten makes impressions. When families choose to drive in two cars to reduce the risk to the family, it hurts. Too many people have it sadly like that in their everyday lives. Increased efforts towards racial protection have been one of the four priority areas of the Workers' Party in the examination of the latest national transport plans. This is well described in the Hurdal platform, both for highways and for highways. Already in the current financial year, we have prioritised and increased the framework for the improvement of racially threatened regions. The priority of Route 13 in Suldal is an important turning point and shows the priorities of this government well. We have major climate change in addition to years of down-priority. It has made us constantly experiencing an increasing pace, and that race can go elsewhere than where we have today defined a pace. We therefore need more research and better coordination, prevention and, above all, monitoring. There are also many other security crises on our roads. Yesterday there was a notice that as much as 1000 bridges have damage that threatens their carrying ability. By 2020, the remaining resources were needed to repair the national and county road tunnels in accordance with the tunnel safety regulations of 13,5 and 6,6 billion respectively. 2020-krona. We also know that there are major deficiencies in winter maintenance on our roads. In addition, we know there's a gap between 50 and 90 billion. kr to remove the limp on county roads. It's a big challenge. Often, there is a need to see all of this in a context. When you're going to make a road more racist, it's not just the race protection that's necessary; it would be appropriate to repair longer distances, maybe also a bridge or a tunnel. This must be both part of the discussion and part of the solution. And then I'm glad we have a clear priority from this government. We are therefore pleased that an overall committee is asking the government to continue to develop a comprehensive national racial and scaffolding plan as defined in the Hurdals platform, covering all high and medium-risk steps both for the national road network and for the county road network. With regard to the other proposals of the minority, the Labour Party believes that what they point to is an already ongoing work. They are very detailed towards what is now to be drawn up in the overall national racial protection plan, and it is covered by the committee proposal of which we are part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1069	Roads, highways and train lines have been an important theme for several decades. Through this proposal for a representative, the Right has called for a review of the criteria and to be far more offensive in the use of new technologies for the monitoring of racial areas. It's very gratifying that several of our proposals seem to get a pass and a majority here today. Norway is a country with very many rascal road sections. Too many drive with their heart in their throats when they go to and from work, school and leisure activities. The same applies to our commercial transport, which risks not getting goods and services safely to its customers. The measures to ensure life, health and material values have different levels, ranging from monitoring to major, invasive physical measures, such as racial, tunnel or infrastructure conversion. The Solberg government posted racial protection on the agenda. In the current NTP, we made up for increased bets, and a number of new, larger, tailor-made measures were launched in the first period, among others. E16 Arna–Stanghelle. By prioritizing racial protection in the NTP, we removed a lot of sprawling distances. This is going to be important for the security and accessibility of those who use these roads. The estimated funding needs are over 70 billion. NOK, if we use today's racial protection methods. At the same time, we have a climate that is getting wetter and wilder, which means that increasingly new areas can be categorised as racially exposed in the future. Therefore, the right considers that the government, based on new knowledge of both climate change and race, needs to have a new review of national anti-slip coordination towards the next NTP, so that racial protection funds can be used where they are needed most, and to be able to capture all needs. Fortunately, there will be increasingly better ways to monitor, assess and categorised racial areas. There is good reason to believe that the work can be done more rationally, and not least that action should be taken much earlier than through the conventional methods we have had at present. Monitoring and technology may act as temporary solutions to final and major actions, possibly as permanent solutions if satisfactory at some point. Furthermore, we believe that by having a previous involvement of contractors in the design of contracts, it is possible to ensure that the competence of the contractor can be fully exploited, and that, through criteria in the contract notices, we must not hinder innovation and innovation. We have therefore put forward a proposal on precisely this, in which we are asking the government for early involvement. In conclusion, we also believe that there is a need to step up prevention and warning work, in line with the input of the National Racial Protection Group, and propose the establishment of an incentive scheme for the investigation, installation and operation of preventive step-by-step control systems and warning systems. Overall, we believe that the proposals we have made in this proposal for a representative, which are being put to the vote here today, will be able to provide a comprehensive and binding plan for the national and county road network; provides a review of the criteria to ensure that the funds are used where they are most needed; enables us to focus on innovation and the use of new technologies gives prior involvement in the contracts establishes an incentive scheme for the investigation, installation and operation of preventive cutting-edge control systems and warning systems; Our clear objective with all these proposals is to make driving safer in Norway. I find it difficult to understand why the government parties are voting against these proposals, but then it is even more pleasing to see that a majority in this Chamber understands the importance of these. People and goods should be able to get safely back home.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1107	Racism is an important theme. Racial protection may have been a good part neglected in the last eight years. Then it's also very interesting and fun that Right puts this thing in focus and really interests itself in the theme. The centre party has always focused a lot on racial protection, and I am pleased that we have been able to get this through in the Hurdal platform. The government will, therefore, take the initiative to develop a national implementation plan for racial and step-by-step protection of all highways and county roads with a high and medium step factor. The central party will strengthen the efforts of the government to ensure the racial protection of national and county roads, establishing a mandatory plan as part of the national transport plan, which will ensure that the routes with the highest rate of turn are racist. Many places pose a danger to raspberries as a threat to road safety. In addition, race and snowmobiles lead to connected roads, which make it unfriendly for business and not least for the local population. We have many examples of this in our long country. From my home state, with high mountains going straight down into the fjords, we have many examples of special state roads that need to be secured. It's done a lot. Many billions have been used by the state, but there are many important projects. Among other things, Geiranger has been mentioned, but we also have the Eike Valley, and we have more places – and other places in the country. Climate change may also lead to more paces and races. The center party thinks it must be a priority task to secure the roads against race and pace. New technology provides the ability to improve the security associated with racial alerting. It allows you to use local knowledge in breed development and provides more security for your money. The centre party believes that there is a need for a national overview of the total racial protection needs of county roads and highways. Such a list needs to be updated continuously. We think there is a need for national standards and criteria for recording steps on the roads. The state must take a coordinating responsibility to establish a level playing field and to provide scaffolding needs reports every four years for national and county roads. With the use of new technologies and the proper installation of preventive breed control, a remote-controlled detonation mechanism can be installed on known races, which can trigger the race when conditions allow. One will then be able to clear the roads in a safe and good way, as well as to re-assess the raspberry, and perhaps to re-open the road much earlier. We in the Centre Party are in the majority of the Committee, so the joint committee – and we – go for, are the following: ‘The Government is asked to continue to develop holistic national racial and scaffolding plans covering all high and medium-speed scaffolding points, both for the national road network and for the county road network. The plans shall be completed before the end of 2023.» We mean that the work that is now under way in the government is building up under all the proposals that are being made from the opposition today. We think that it is well covered within that work. This is a good and important matter for which the government is very busy – and not least the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1131	Today, many people live in rosy places in Norway, living in insecurity, who have to take their children to kindergarten and school and commute along rosy areas. Racism can save lives, create security for people and save society, people and business for the costs of closed roads. The government must have a plan to tailor and race all of our dangerous ways. We know that the climate crisis contributes to further raising the race risk. For many years, Norwegian politicians have said that we can't afford to race our dangerous roads, while throwing hundreds of billions after environmentally hostile motorway projects. We in SV will reverse this development. I am pleased with the signals we are receiving today that the very many rascal roads in Norway are now being dealt with – although signals do not help the mother who does not dare send her children together on a rascal road in the West. It's a completely insane aftermath, and it's urgent to have an obsessive plan on how to secure the dangerous roads in this country. We have to start the job for safer district roads now. Jenny Følling of the National Racial Protection Group says it as clearly as possible: ‘The need is enormous’. The most important thing for us in SV is safe roads all over the country. I've said it before, but I'd like to say it again: it's better to build far and safe than wide and expensive. This time it was hard to get the government parties on everything that is needed to get to this. Then we turn to where we have to. We are fully aware that the constellation SV, Right and Advance Party are quite unusual, but the important thing here is the policy, not who we're working with to get it to. Then we're disappointed that none of the other parties would set a deadline for when we're going to have the money ready to actually make sure our most dangerous ways. The fact that no one else would join in on a deadline makes me wonder: Is it that the majority in this room would rather build environmentally hostile highways than put in place vital racial protection? I hope that today's debate will give answers to what they really are prioritizing. And yes, I'm aware that those I've been dating today to create a majority, not exactly have good numbers to point out when it comes to this problem. But there's a point of light: SV has already had an impact in this period to secure one of our most dangerous roads, in Suldal in Rogaland, and we're going to work hard to ensure racial protection on many more roads in the next few years. It'll cost about 70 billion. to protect the most dangerous roads in Norway. There's a lot of money, but far from as much as we spend on environmentally hostile motorways. The rate of funding for race and tailoring is currently far too low, and in no way does it keep up with the challenges and climate change that we get with extreme weather. If we do not start a significant escalation of resources as soon as possible, businesses, exports and the population will be hit hard, and we will be forced to live with a high level of insecurity in the region of Norway. That is why I ask the Minister to ensure that race protection is given priority in the road portfolio in the future. Even I live only a few miles from the road that stands in the tenth place across the roads, geologists in the State Road Service categorize as Norway's most racially exposed. You get a slightly different relationship to this when you read almost weekly in the local view about feelings that have almost been taken by race and heavy blocks. Some of the problem might be that the rage doesn't go in the middle of Oslo. I believe that we need to ensure national coordination of work on a comprehensive race and tailoring plan for national and county roads. I am therefore addressing the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1154	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1159	We live in a long-distance country with many rascal road sections, and this is a theme on which this government and its signatories are strongly involved. That's why I was signed on an inspection in Suldal last week, and that's why I was signed in Troms and Finnmark yesterday and was looking at how to, among other things. use new technologies, as many have also called for in this debate, to trigger steps. So this is an important field, and I also think it tends to have a lot of consensus in the hall about what's going to happen to solve it. In the Hurdal platform, we are clear: the state must: ‘take the initiative to draw up, together with the counties, a national implementation plan for the racial and tailor-made protection of all highways and motorways of the county with a high and medium step factor’. Therefore, it is positive that the majority of the Committee supports the breed and scoring formula of the Hurdal platform. Like the committee, I believe that the proposal raises several important issues, and as the committee, I am also concerned that we should get the most out of the money we spend on tailoring. We have also notified this in the letter of assignment to the State Road Administration for 2022. The counties are responsible for their roads, and it is therefore obvious that the counties should be involved in the preparation of national action plans. In other words, the counties themselves must give priority to action on their own road network. The counties therefore naturally have a place in the preparation of comprehensive and national tailoring plans. On national roads, it is important that we give the state road system sufficient freedom of action to implement policy effectively and rationally. It is important that we have confidence in the professionals in such assessments. With regard to national roads, the State Road Administration has recently presented its own implementation plan, such as: indicates the medium- and high-step measures planned to be implemented nationally between 2022 and 2027. The tailor-made measures are part of portfolio management in the national transport plan, and the State Road Service’s implementation plan is – and must be – dynamic and, of course, can also be changed over time. This is to ensure that the State Road Administration continues to work to find cheaper and more accurate measures using new technology, and that is the way we get more scaffolding for the money. In the case of county roads, an overview of the points of departure as a basis for the plan was drawn up in the context of the preparation of the National Transport Plan 2022-2033, and we therefore have a good knowledge of the need for the county road network. It is important that the county councils make their own priorities based on the knowledge of the development that we are now going to implement, with comprehensive national racial and tailor-made plans. It is therefore quite natural that county councils should play a central role in the preparation of plans for their own roads. I agree that an innovation programme for the development of tailor-made safety should be considered as an action to pool knowledge and activities in this area in the future. Technology development has been and has been a central theme in the work of the State Road Service on racial and scaffolding in the last decade, and it will continue to be. Traditional physical and so-called passive safeguards, such as tunnels, cross-roads and barriers on the ground, are now assessed in parallel with active and technological measures. Active measures require lower investment and may be put in place quickly at a point where this action is appropriate or where a more permanent solution is expected to be slightly longer in time. This provides more scoring for the money and is faster. The most remote regions also have this as an area of activity and consider the possibility of such effective and proportionate measures. Among other things, I can refer to my experience from Troms and Finnmark yesterday, which is well ahead in this area. Part of the technology is known and tested in the Alpine countries. Pilots and testing in Norway have shown that Nordic and Arctic conditions need to be adapted. Technology development takes as long as it is known, and new solutions are not without faults and weaknesses. Using active measures and using new technologies, very cost-effective safeguard measures can be implemented. However, there is a slightly higher residual risk compared to traditional measures. With good in-service follow-up and active safeguard measures, the residual road risk may become acceptable over several outbound routes. Finally, I note that the proposer is calling for the intention to be included in the operating contracts. We are committed to promoting innovation that provides better and more cost-effective solutions in our area, but I do not see it as natural to impose on the agency the types of contracts to be selected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1194	I looked at Dagsrevyen yesterday that the Council of State was in the municipality of Troms and Finnmark and saw a very good example of the use of new technology. It was a controlled release of a step. The county told, among other things: how vulnerable this area is and why this is so important to them. I agree that this is an important field, but the Council of State was quite reprehensible and said something like that you couldn't go into this because you had happened to be on an inspection right there. But wouldn't voting for the proposals that have been put forward here today be a good place to start if you really want to be in favour of a race security innovation programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1199	It might be a little inaccurate interpretation of what I said. It was probably that I linked my inspection directly to what is coming in the revised national budget. That's what I kind of said, that it's not necessarily that an inspection gives concrete counting there. That being said, this is an area where everyone agrees that we can extract quite a lot of the effect of using new technology. The state road service is doing well, the county councils are doing well, and what I saw in Troms and Finnmark yesterday promised very well. They're very good at using radar, steptower and Daisybell – for those who know what it is – to trigger the pace. So this is really getting pretty far. I think that this development must, of course, continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1206	For 19 years now, I have been responsible and co-responsible for building up Åknes/Tafjord Stand ready, which today has the world's best ski resort and competence in mountaineering and rock jumping. The NVE and the state have taken over that competence — there are now several places in Norway — and it is very important to use it. Unfortunately, we have seen that much of what is about race focuses on snow. I also see that from the Council of State. But there's an equal number of exposed areas when it comes to rock jumping, landslides, and walking away from loose masses. Will the state councils use the world's best technology, which actually exists in Norway, and use it actively against anti-slip protection in the areas of rock jumping and loose masses in Norway? He can also be used on snowmobiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1211	First of all, I guess we all remember what we've been through last week, but last week I was in Suldal, and then I saw rock jumping and racing that way. So I fully understand that here are the different challenges in different places in the country. I also agree that we need to be able to use technology, also in the case of rock jumping and climbing that goes into mountain masses. Of course, that's important. Then monitoring is an important part of it. The state road authority is working on this. And so do the county municipalities. Everyone is concerned about using new technology, and of course we have to do it in such a way that we take the effect of it. We must not believe that we can use it anywhere, because there will also be a need to take more lasting action on parts of our routes. There are many exciting things happening, including: The state Road Service is starting to look at how we can use drones to monitor and see how things develop, in terms of both snowslides and rock leaps. I think that we see opportunities together here to be able to do things effectively, reduce risk and increase security.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1220	It's good to right that the Council of State is willing to look at all areas. I've been in the county for almost 20 years when it comes to racial protection, and it's in one of the largest racial groups, Moor and Romsdal. I have been quite dismayed to look at the state's roadway, which has traveled up by helicopter and looked at the mountain sides, cf. what was said here about drones. One cannot see how the mountain is loose or stuck by looking at it from the air, one must use scanning material – which Åknes/Tafjord and NVE actually have now. They may scan mountains on pages 24 to 7 and have full control of the smallest stone that can release them. The point is that one must use current technology. The road system has been a little slow, a little conservative and has to figure it out for itself. I sincerely hope that the Council of State can help one to use the technology that the state actually has. The question I have to ask you is: a large part of the breed areas have roadways, but until now we have seen that a greater part of the breed protection pot has gone to highways in relation to county roads. Would the Government do anything about that distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1229	In terms of scaffolding and plans, we are now going to make a plan with the county councils, and we will of course, through the planning processes and future budgets, consider how we are going to allocate money. I just want to repeat some of what I was about: it's an exciting project that's about how to use drones. Technology is evolving all the time. You also want to use scanning, cameras and radars through that project, so you can get information from the mountain mass. I think it could be a way to solve things in the future, with which we're all served.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1236	As I heard the statement to the Minister, it seemed that the Council of State was really quite in agreement with the proposals of the opposition, except for one proposal which he may have commented a little negatively. In particular, with regard to the travel of the Council of State – at the latest yesterday you could see on TV that he had been able to stand at a step and mentioned a step – would it not be a very good signal, although it is a proposal from the opposition parties, if the parties actually supported more of the proposals? It could send a powerful signal to all the racial groups and states that it is here to gather on an important matter and not to pursue party politics, but simply to gather vigorously and support the proposals. Even though the Council of State believes that the State Road Service is doing a lot of things, I think it would be good if the Stortinget could get together once about something that is so important, that so many are concerned about, and that involves so much insecurity, so you know that this is being implemented, that you stop using rhetoric and actually pursue real policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1243	In the Hurdal platform, we are very clear that, together with the county municipalities, we are going to take the initiative to draw up a national implementation plan for the race and tailoring of highways and highways with a high and medium step factor. I think that this is a very clear management signal from this government, and I trust, of course, that the State Road Service and the floors and county councils are working on the field described here. I do not see it in the same way as the representative – that not voting for this is a kind of political polemics or something else. My starting point is that it does very well. It is very good that this is a theme in Stortinget, but it is not necessary to adopt those proposals, for this is already well under way, at least with parts of what was described.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1250	County Road 5744 Navel things in City Municipality, d.o.b. 5829 between Grodås and Otterdal in the municipality of Volda, fv. 13 over Gaular Mountain, E6 between Bergen and Voss, fv. 5723 Lovatnet in Stryn municipality, f. 5724 between Olden and Briksdal, also in Stryn, fv. 8830 between Lerresfjord and Lauvås in Alta municipality, fv. 7900 between Forneset and Seljelvnes in the municipality of Tromsø, fv. 5625 Skjerdal in Aurland and last, but not least fv. 7594 between Myrland and Napp in Lofoten – these are the ten most racist roads according to the geologists of the State Road Service. I think they all deserved to be mentioned today. What will the Minister do to secure the roads for those who live along these dangerous roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1257	Then I repeat that in this government we have taken an initiative to create a plan with the county councils to deal with the most remote sections. That's what we're doing. We've given a mission to the state road service, and that's going to come back to a result. In this context, of course, we need to make assessments of how we can help and, if necessary, finance. But I repeat that the county councils are of course responsible road owners and are initially responsible for managing their roads, whether there are pace challenges or other challenges with them. So the representative knows that we already have arrangements where we fund and help the states with some of the challenges they have in this area. I fully agree that this is an important field, and I hope, of course, that together we will be able to move in the right direction to reduce these rascal routes, so that people and business get good, predictable paths of prosperity and security in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1264	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1272	I thank you for raising this debate. I was incredibly happy when I saw the Hurdal platform, which shows that racial protection is now being taken seriously. There's going to be a big deal with this government. In 2019, an overall cost of securing the most dangerous parts of the county road network in Troms and Finnmark was estimated at over 12 billion. kr. With cost uncertainty, which often gives a mark-up of about 40 p.p., it can cost 17 billion kroner. kr. When the state with the previous government transferred 155 million. kr to the county councils to make sure in 2022, it goes without saying that this is not exactly done overnight. They get under 1 pst. of what they need, so that scaffolding is heavily underfunded. It will take over 100 years to secure our roads with this funding pace. We have about 4,500 km of county road in Troms and Finnmark, so we're forced to think about how we can get the most out of the money. Our patience has been great, but now there must be a strong stepping up of funding. The centre party will strengthen the focus on racial protection on national and county roads and establish a binding plan as part of the national transport plan to ensure that high-speed sections are racially protected. In many places, racial danger poses a threat to the safety of road users. In addition, breeds and snowslides lead to closed roads, leaving little predictability for business and the local population. I can mention that a short time ago there was a very severe race that went, and I think it was about. ten trailers standing over a long time, full of fish. A trailer represents a value of from 1 to 2 million. kr, depending on whether it is fish produced or non-produced. We can't have it like that. We have to put in place a system that prepares this in a very good way, and I believe that this government will be ten to bet on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1283	It is a cross-political objective to facilitate more people to live and work throughout the country, and to allow more people to experience the many qualities that the districts have to offer. Then we have to make it both possible and safe for people. But unfortunately it doesn't always feel as safe. In many places in Norway, for example: on rv. 13, it goes regularly. We are many, signed included, who have known the unpleasant experience of driving there shortly before or after a race event. Some also end up in the middle of the rage. It is most demanding for residents, who daily use the road to get to work, school and family. Therefore, the efforts made by the Right are on their guard to increase the breeding pot and bring in important projects such as rv. 13 in the national transport plan, important. That is why this proposal for a representative and the decisions that are now being taken by the majority, so incredibly important, with innovation and innovation as a key word. It is good that we should look into whether today's road maintenance operational contracts are optimal, ensure that they are open to new solutions, and consider whether there should be more incentives for prevention. And it is good for the government to set up an incentive scheme for the investigation, installation and operation of preventive cutting-edge control systems and warning systems. So it's very gratifying that now there's also a majority to ask the government to explore an innovation programme for tailoring to look at alternative solutions both on county roads and highways and the entire spectrum of scaffolding, ranging from simple scaffolding to the heavy and durable infrastructure measures. We have several professional environments that are strong in the area, and a Norwegian business that is ready to contribute, where RoadCap in my own home country and in Sandnes is one of them. A new approach is needed to reduce the time between the decision on securing and completion, but also during the tailoring work, in order to reduce the exposure time of those who are going to do the job – in order to make the job safer – and not least to reduce traffic disruption. We need more of this innovation in the future. I also have to mention that from the setting available, one needs to get ahead of work on national race and tailoring plans. It's very important that you have a high and medium-slip protection factor, that highways and highways as mentioned, and that we set a deadline for this work, so that we get started. We have no one to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1300	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1317	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1322	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. The case rapporteur has been replaced in the course of the procedure, when the rapporteur, Tom Kalsås, has been appointed. Therefore, the undersigned has taken over. The proposition we have for treatment is about two projects, that's rv. 13th@item: inlistbox Ryfast and E39 Eiganes Tunnel. In the case of Ryfast, it has been given an increased cost framework as a result of a dispute between the State Road Service and the contractor on the final settlement following the settlement negotiations. It is desirable to find such a solution without legal proceedings. This agreement involves an additional cost increase of approximately 180 million. kr. The expected increase in costs was reported in the autumn of the year in Prop. 29 S for 2021–2022 and in the case of changes to the State budget by the Ministry of Transport. The increase in costs was also due to an increase in the scope of work associated with more conditions. There is an overall assessment of the time, costs, resources and risks involved in bringing the case before the court that is at the root of the case and which leads the ministry to settle. For the project E39 The ownership tunnel was also informed in the same proposition on changes in the State budget of the Ministry of Transport that one has tried to resolve the dispute outside the legal system, but without any luck. Here, the judgment of the Court of First Instance has taken place in the favour of the State Road Administration, while the contractor has appealed the decision, and progress in further legal proceedings has not yet been clarified. Therefore, the matter will come back to Stortinget when clarification is available. Then the Progress Party has a proposal in the matter that we believe is wrong, as the whole matter is just about the cost increase in the project being covered by the state, not by tolls. This has also been confirmed by the development director. So I want to say that we have to look at the way we're building the road. We want better dialogue with the contractors, both before the call for tenders and not least during the construction phase, so that a dispute is resolved at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1335	What's at least the sign that I'm signing is wrong is to use toll money to finance roads. That was our point with the comment, where we were clear that the extra promises had to come from the state. It's going to be confirmed that they do, but we don't trust a hundred percent that it happens. For this reason, we have stated that tolls should not be used to finance the extra costs. So that proposal is dimed taking up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1340	The representative Frank Edvard Sve has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1345	The government has in Prop. 59 S for 2021-2022 raised two disputes in the territory of the State Road Administration. On the one hand, proposals have been made for an increased cost framework for the project, etc. 13 Ryfast. In addition, the status in dispute proceedings for the project E39 Eiganes tunnel has been explained. As regards the dispute for the Eiganes Tunnel, I will return to Stortinget after there are further clarifications in the legal system. I look at the Committee's position that it is in line with the proposal for an increased cost framework for the Ryfast project. I am, of course, satisfied with that. I have also taken note of the proposal from the Progress Party on the Ryfast case, that the Storting should take into account that the increased need for funding, which comes as a result of the increase in the cost framework, should not be covered by tolls. To this end, I would like to reiterate and draw attention to the fact that the mechanisms for dealing with cost increases in this project follow the standard practice for state-owned toll projects. It implies that, in any case, the country covers increases in costs beyond the initial cost framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1354	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1371	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1378	In this room we disagree about a lot, but all parties share the goal of working for a good health offer. All batches want everyone to have access to and good health services. We in SV are also very concerned about getting a good health service wherever you come from and how much you earn, and that we take care of the health care we have. In Norway, we have the best healthcare system in the world, and we need to take care of that and improve it every day. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Our health and care services face major challenges in the coming years. We become more nordics, and more of us live longer and get older. More lives long with chronic diseases and disabilities. This is a desirable development, but will also increase the number of citizens with a long-standing need for healthcare assistance. Many will need complex services, often from several service providers at different service levels, i.e. long-term use of specialist health services, while requiring complex services in the municipality in which they live. Therefore, it is important that our municipalities are able both to prioritise and also to take care of the most important thing in this message here, which is to facilitate that everyone is given the opportunity to master their own life. We also have a more knowledgeable and quality-providing population, which is a resource in the service, and must benefit more from it. At the same time, there is a challenge that there is a wide variation in the health competence of the population. In this context, some of the population have difficulties, among other things. to find the right services and information in the health system. The difference in health skills was particularly evident under the pandemic. I want to move on to draw out what is perhaps the most urgent, and which this message does not touch in a good enough way, but which it is important that we talk about. It is that we incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, also known as the CRPD, into Norwegian law. The United Nations has criticised Norway for too many differences between municipalities in its ability to live active lives and lack of self-determination. This too, with mastery in this message, comes into focus in particular. I know too many people who have had to fight and spend a disproportionate amount of time and effort to ensure that they themselves or their children get the right health care, the health care they need. I am glad that this message also involves the public dental service. It is an important area in which we expect developments to take place. With that, I take up the proposal from SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1393	The representative of Marian Hussein has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1398	A fundamental challenge in healthcare services is that opportunities often exceed resources. It'll always be like that, and not least when we see that medical progress is going at a great pace. However, priorities are a necessity in healthcare services. Without clear principles of priority, the allocation of assistance could be more random and the objective of equivalent access to healthcare would be more difficult to achieve. It's about our common health care, and man's self-esteem is central – not every person's productivity, and that's good. This is well-founded in the specialist healthcare service, but the need for systematic thinking around priorities also applies to municipal health and care services and publicly funded dental services. That's why it's good, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that it's going in here. In order for this to work well in practice in all the municipalities of the country, it is also necessary to strengthen the guidance, and an adapted instrument has been called for in this case. The Government shall establish a knowledge support system and a national professional priority leader for the municipalities — a work already under way. The aim of this work is better and safer health and care services. Mestring is central, and it's about mastering with disease, and it's crucial for the individual's quality of life. It is good that it should also be included as part of the priority criteria. Health professionals, patients and users must then also be able to understand what is concrete in the concept of mastering and be able to relate it to priority decisions. Knowledge systems must now also move inwards. Many have also been concerned about how the prevention measures will be affected by this issue. Some have even expressed concern about the depriority of prevention work in municipalities, in particular those measures that do not have an immediate effect. Here I just have to stress that the inclusion of the priority criteria at the municipal level should not lead to such a down-priority. The broad public health measures will not be affected, and there has been a clear government, because public health is a priority for the government and work is in progress. So I just want to add in terms of resources: the Workers' Party-Center Party government also added 2.5 billion. More to the municipalities in the budget, and we also have large plans for low-threshold healthcare in the municipalities in the future. So this government is also doing well to rust the municipalities for the work they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1413	Every day, health professionals face priority decisions about who will be given and who will have to wait for health care. There are demanding assessments and difficult decisions. A fundamental challenge in the Norwegian healthcare service is that the possibilities and wishes are just beyond the resources available. This means that healthcare cannot choose whether to give priority to it, because priority must be given to it. But what we can choose is on what kind of basis those priorities are to be done, and that's what we're going to decide today. Health and care services have had priority criteria for many years, but it has been limited to specialist health services. In 2017, the Solberg government put down the Blankholm Committee, and the aim of the sample was to have a comprehensive discussion of the need for priority criteria in the municipal health and care services and in the public dental service. In the past, there have been several public bodies that have investigated and assessed issues of priority health care criteria, but they have mainly discussed priority criteria in the specialist healthcare service. The Blankholm Committee is therefore the first public body to look at priority criteria only in the municipal health and care services and in the public dentistry. There is a broad consensus in health care and, here, in the United Kingdom, that the priority criteria benefit, resource and seriousness, which are currently used as a basis for priorities in the specialist healthcare service, should also be used as a basis for priorities in the municipal health and public health services. These priority criteria are supported by the right and believe that horizontal priority criteria throughout the healthcare system, both in the municipality, hospitals and dental care, will help to support the objective of coherent and coordinated healthcare and care services for the patient. It also makes sense for the right to include mastering in the priority criteria benefits and seriousness. Right-wing vision for healthcare is the patient’s healthcare service, and good priority criteria are important in order to give priority to patients who need it the most. In order for the priority criteria to work, there must also be good tools to enable health professionals to follow them up in the practical everyday life of health care. It is particularly important that the instruments are good, since the priority criteria have not been applied in the past in the municipal health and care services or in the public dentistry. The Blankholm Committee proposed to allocate these funds in four areas. It was legal instruments, economic instruments, educational instruments and research and knowledge. On the right, all the instruments proposed in the Storing Communication are supported. It is important to develop a good national supervisor so that health professionals know how to apply the priority criteria and it is important to establish a knowledge support system for municipalities. Prioritisation criteria must also be implemented in the content of health education, in order to provide health professionals with an early knowledge of the priority criteria and their application. Finally, I would also point out that the Blankholm Committee and several hearing replies to this case point out that there is a need to increase the level of knowledge and research activity in the municipal health and care services, and in particular the impact of actions and decisions given to users and patients. Right-wing agreement. The Solberg Government presented both Competencelift 2020 and Competencelift 2025, which have contributed to more than 146 000 health care employees receiving basic, continuing and continuing training in the last four years. The aim of the lift is to contribute to a professionally strong service and to ensure that the services have adequate and competent staffing. Competencelift 2025 underlines the need for the municipal health and dental care services and the public dental service to play a more active role as an initiator and a participant in research and as a specialist development and training venue. To the right, it is important that the government follow up the actions of the Competence Council in 2025 and contribute to several instruments to increase the level of knowledge and research activity of the municipal health and care services. It can also be done by using already established structures such as the Strategic Research Body of the Municipalities, KSF, and Health Care21.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1432	This big message brings with it a holistic thinking and the important priority criteria benefits, resources and seriousness. At the same time, from today on, a new and important element in the further work on the criteria will be included. The centre party has previously pointed out the great weakness that has been in the overall health service, since the municipal health and care service has not been in the same priority criterion. It is absolutely crucial now and for the future to see this in action. The size does not introduce, but currently sets the framework for priority criteria to be applied. A large amount of work will be required from many involved parties, both state, county, municipality and health professionals, to ensure proper implementation. The criterion is relevant at all levels of the health service. Therefore, it will be crucial for health authorities to ensure just good implementation and a broad knowledge support system that underpins our decision today. Both municipalities and municipalities will need professional guidance and follow-up. The demographic development is well known to us – and I noticed that a red light began to shine under the post of the previous representative. The proportion of older people who will need health care in the future will increase. Once one has debated priorities in the specialist services in the past, the Centre Party has been clear that having the right skills and adequate health care staff is our biggest challenge in a comprehensive healthcare service. This situation has developed in a strongly negative direction. For this reason, it is more than ever urgent to move away from the market thinking that has regulated and managed a larger and larger part of the important resource, namely health professionals. In many municipalities and hospitals, there is now an over-war on critical personnel, such as drug users. laymen and nurses. It is crucial that responsible politicians set clear frameworks and prioritize interventions that will ensure all a robust health service, regardless of country a cage. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the municipal health and care services have sufficient room for action to take real priorities based on local self-government and local discretion. Our municipalities are unique and have different experience in service design. This must still be room for. This is the strength of how we organize ourselves today. It has shown us to the extent that the pandemic management and the large-scale mobilisation in all the municipalities of the country. There's a lot of good white spread around the whole country, near where people live. Action spaces and trust are determining factors for closing down and not governmental overrides. Another important area that I want to explore is preventive work. Municipalities' fresh-life and pastoral work is likely to bring with them the most important ingredient in order to correct and remedy persistent and serious health problems in the population. Therefore, it is important that municipalities continue to maintain a broad profile of public health performance, regardless of this prioritisation. Finally, there is good reason to wish the Minister of Health and Welfare to close it with further follow-up and concrete action on the implementation of this matter today. The government has started a lot of work on monitoring and developing healthcare in many areas. For example, the ongoing work on the enterprise model and the interaction reform will determine how to further manage a comprehensive health service. There is also an urgent need to get mandates and selections to look at the prehospital services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1449	The priority message is important. It's taking the lead, so we're going to have some principles to follow in health care. Prioritisation is never easy – it probably has many experiences from their own lives too – but it is nevertheless a necessity. Therefore, I think it makes sense to go along with mutual principles for prioritising both specialist health services, dental services and community health and care services. We see that more people are getting older, some are living longer with serious diseases, and several of us need care and care. As a result, more people have to use the provision of health and care services. At the same time, we see that the workload for nurses and caregivers is increasing, so that the amount of work is not in line with the resources available to us. This means, once again, that some patients must be given priority in front of others. This is where we come to the very source of the challenges we have in health. It is the resources that set the priorities. The fewer resources we have, the less priority is given, and the less treatment they may need to work in everyday life. When you hear stories about nurses who quit their jobs because they can't cope with the enormous workload, or when you hear about qualifiers who depend on working 14 hours a day to follow up all the work, with demands for reporting and form fields, you find that it's not the priority in itself that's the challenge, but that you have too few resources to distribute, or priority, if you prefer that word. The nice thing about working with health policy is that you're dealing with something that concerns most people, and that's about helping those who need it most. At the same time, it's heartwarming to meet people who don't get the help they need and deserve. I find it sad to hear about Christian from Bergen. He has cystic fibrosis, which means he has greatly reduced lung capacity. It can be compared to having to breathe through a suction tube at any time. The smallest task feels like a marathon. He has roommates and a newborn child. There's a medicine for the disease, but Christian has to move to Denmark to get access to the medicine that allows him to live an almost normal life. The reason is that the medicine is not offered in Norway for economic reasons. I mean, it's not prioritised, or it's out of order, if you want. It would be desirable for Christian's story to be a single case, but behind him are several hundred people with the same disease. I also find it sad to hear about Cathrine, with the atrocious disease ALS, where the nerve cells fade away and eventually die. What Cathrine wants is to stay at the ALS Resource Centre, Rosenlund Park, at Løten, but the municipality says no. The municipality does not give priority to her, they give priority to her, and they offer 52-year-olds a place in the municipality's nursing home. Unfortunately, Cathrine's story is not a single case either. There are hundreds of people with ALS, and many of them will feel that they are not being prioritised. We need to find room to give help to those who need our help. It is unworthy that many people in Norway, the richest country in the world, have to live with a bureaucracy and a health care system that has no room to take care of them. When we don't even find space to give priority to Cathrine and Christian, who are we going to give priority to? Then we have to discuss the decision-making forum at the next crossroads, but that the fate of people, whether or not to give priority to the drugs they can receive, is to be determined by four directors of our health companies, with interest in the economic bottom line of their own business, is, in the view of the Progress Party, a model that needs change. I think it is important that we, as politicians, raise our eyes from case papers, figures and economics, and rather look more at the people involved in politics. Behind every person who doesn't get medication or treatment, there's a life you give up. This puts great strain on the sick, the family, relatives, and close friends alike. Our main task is to ensure safe and good health care for all Norwegian patients. That must be our main priority. I take this up with me the proposals of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1477	The representative Morten Wold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1482	It's our job to adopt things that we think are good for people. But then the really question is whether our job is done? In recent years, we have adopted better rights for some people who depend on assistance or health care in municipalities every day. This prioritisation message is also such a matter. It will help to ensure that people get the same services no matter which municipality they live in. It could contribute to the provision of a comprehensive health service; the same priorities will follow from the special health service to the municipalities. It will provide more safety and predictability for patients. It's just one problem with all the good things we decide, that's that it doesn't always come with money. Last year, KS published a report on cost growth in care services. It showed that the growth in the costs of municipalities in this field has almost doubled in recent years. The growth is not due to the long-established wave of older people, but to the increasing responsibility of municipalities – including for younger people. There has been an increase in short-term places in hospitals, more receive BPA, more receive home services and more receive practical assistance for daily tasks. There are people who need it, and it is absolutely right that they should get it, but the municipalities are getting more and more to do. Still, the money doesn't come along. The capacity has been blown up in many places. In the report, several municipalities say that rights-based services can become so costly that they go at the expense of services to others, for example: older people with significant assistance needs. Unfortunately, the requirements and needs are not in line with the financing. At all levels of the municipal health service, at the allocation offices and in practical care, employees have to make priorities between all necessary needs. Are they going to give one opportunity to participate in leisure activities, or are they going to give the other a few hours of relief? Are they going to take care of a wound, or are they going to help someone take a shower? Capacity is too small and services are underfunded. This Communication provides for the protection of fundamental needs; basic needs must be ensured and raised above priorities. We're going to afford that at any cost, it's set out in this message. The problem is, unfortunately, it's wishful thinking. Ask the lion's mother if it's like this today, ask relatives of people with dementia or ask people who have ME, or others who feel that their basic needs have been raised above priorities today. In the hearings that have come in, we see again and again from those who work out there, that the frames are too scarce. The decision-makers say they prioritize according to capacity, the Association of Psychologists asks questions about whether the municipalities really have the conditions to prioritize what is necessary in mental health and drug abuse at all. The Joint Organisation, FO, states that a prerequisite for the application of the priority criteria is to increase the financial framework. Physiotherapists write: ‘We cannot prioritise ourselves for better capacity.’ If we do nothing to strengthen the economy of the community health service, this prioritisation message will only become another document in the pile that the head of the community health service is tearing himself in the hair over not being able to comply. The introduction of priority criteria will not in itself change the capacity of municipalities. In order for this document to have some meaning, we actually have to do what we should have done a long time ago. We have to enable the municipalities financially to meet the growth in tasks they've been given, and then we actually have to talk about money. We need a review of the impact of the funding mechanism on the priorities of services, in order to ensure equivalent services. These are priorities that we support and that are important. And then we know that many people feel quite alone when they feel that they are not getting the help they need, often in a vulnerable situation. It's not because the municipalities or employees in the municipalities think they shouldn't get that help; it's because the economy doesn't stretch. So when we talk about the priorities, we also have to talk about the money to keep up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1499	Priority is one of the most important tools we have in healthcare, but it is also important that this priority comes down to the floor, into the departments where people work. Every day, every watch, whether in a hospital or in a hospital, is given priority. Who does what, and why? We have to have the right personnel for the different tasks, whether it's in an emergency room when the traffic accident comes, when a patient comes with a stroke, or in a cancer ward. Who gets what medicine? What support does he need? If we go into one of our hospitals when the personnel resources are to be allocated to a regular guard, and the only thing that the demented patient who walks out of the hall will do is get out, not least when the spring is there, and what's known is to pick out the faded leaves before it's going to spread new life, then priority becomes extremely important. It is also given priority on the floor, and it is given priority on the overall level. The question is: what values and criteria do we give priority to? It is a strength for daily work that there are now common criteria for what we should give priority to. There are differences in hospitals and municipal services, but interaction is incredibly important. It is absolutely necessary that we, as citizens, receive a good and coherent service offer. I'm very happy that mastering gets into this priority message. It's both important and correct. Being able to master something is fundamental in a person's life. Back to the hospital, to this patient who walks out the hall and walks, and all he wants is to get out. She can still pick withered leaves and to emergency wash her face with the washcloth. More hygiene she cannot take care of herself. Then the question is, is it right to prioritize that she is allowed to go out a little bit to know those magazines? Mestring is one of the criteria we prioritize. It's also important to see that side of the patient, to get a decent life in the nursing home becomes important. Mestring is not just to be self-held in the very things that are about yourself, mastering is also about being allowed to be in the life you've had. I've been to a life-happy-sick home where they've prioritised. They prioritised building a sensory garden behind the nursing home, with some hens and rabbits in it. They saved meds for almost $1 million. They thus also saved the staff for aggressive patients. The patients themselves did not get baptized, and the increased mastery of the person who lived in the hospital, for he could actually both pick eggs and take care of what was out in the backyard. It increased the joy of life. The priority of building a sensory garden became more important, and a saving in the long term. Proper tools for health professionals to prioritize the regular shift must be central to this, so that it means something to the person who lives or is in a hospital or hospital. We have to have a national guide with good knowledge and also a good story of practice, so that the priority criteria are fully followed in the departments, and what we decide here actually works in the practical life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1515	The principles of prioritisation of benefits, resources and seriousness are based on a valuable basis which has legitimacy in the population and among health professionals, and all those who have made contributions before me have shown excellent feedback, which the Minister will certainly take with him. Health policy shall be based on respect for human dignity and shall be based on a fair distribution of rights and obligations, equivalency and equal availability of services throughout the country. When we talk about seriousness, benefits and resources, it is the economic resource of health businesses that is often taken into account. Patients’ health resources are rarely taken into account. The aim must be that the money is spent wisely, so that the taxpayer's money can be used as much as possible. There are many different diseases I could have exemplified this with, but I choose to use the eye disease wet AMD as a good example. In Alta it is approx. 100 patients with eye disease. All 100 must travel approx. once a month to an eye doctor for examination and injection. This is done either at Hammerfest Hospital or at the University Hospital in Tromsø. Thus, 100 patients are required to travel back-to-back approximately. once a month. Someone's with them. If 50 needs assistance, there will be 150 flights of travel-return Tromsø, or transport by car 140 km to Hammerfest every month. It'll be about. 1800 journeys in a year. Everyone must have that treatment for the rest of their lives, so let's say you need that treatment for ten years. It's going to be 18,000 journeys, and here it's both useful and serious. The patient may become blind without treatment. That's the resources. How much of the financial resources of patient travel are spent on this patient group? How can we obtain a reasonable service, both economically and not least in terms of climate, which we have dealt with today? Patient focus has been informed from the Alta Clinic that it will be economically profitable for an eye-catching traveler to the Alta Clinic if there are more than 8 patients with wet AMD, so now we're talking about 100. Then we also have to look at how many patients have the disease in North Varanger, how many have it in Lakselv, in Porsanger, in Karasjok – how many have it elsewhere in District Norway? They must also be offered treatment for the disease locally. It's in line with the sustainability targets that we've been dealing with today, by 2030. The resources of patients are often such that they are on the minus side when they come home from such a journey. Yes, people are almost what we use to call health bankruptcy – they have nothing to do with it. This means that both the patient’s health resource and the state will have great benefits from the fact that patients with wet AMD do not travel, while we get some health professionals to take those trips. Because everything has a price. Hospitals have their budget, and the patient manages another account and expenses related to travel, accommodation, loss of time, loss of quality of life – and perhaps a week on the sofa after such a trip, it is not uncommon at all. If we are to create good offers for sick people while taking sustainability goals with us, we need to look at the overall benefits and total costs for the individual and for society as a whole. The time we live in now requires us to act wisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1530	Today represents a milestone: it is the first time a communication on principles of priority for the entire healthcare service is discussed and dealt with in the Stortinget. This is a step towards a more comprehensive and coherent health and care service. We have a long tradition of working systematically on priority issues in Norway. The first prioritisation committee carried out its investigation in 1987. Since then, several public samples, expert groups and communications have investigated and discussed priorities in healthcare. Common to these is that they have mainly discussed criteria and principles for priority in the specialist health service. However, the need for systematic thinking around priority is equally great in municipal health and dental services. A fundamental challenge in healthcare is that opportunities and desires exceed the resources available to us. We cannot therefore choose whether to give priority to it – priorities take place no matter what our intentions are. What we can choose, on the other hand, is the basis of values and the principles on which decisions are to be taken. There is broad political agreement on the value base for healthcare. This is the basis on which the principles of priority in the specialist health service have been based. Many patients and users receive services from all levels, and good coordination between services is essential in order to provide comprehensive patient profiles. It suggests that the priority criteria should be the same both in the municipal health and care services, in dental care and in the specialist health service. Persistent criteria may also contribute to addressing priority challenges between service levels and contributing to increased interaction. The Communication suggests that the criteria we are familiar with today’s specialist health services — utility, resource and seriousness — should also apply to municipal health services and to publicly funded dental services. In addition, it is proposed to add to mastering as part of the utility and severity criterion. I believe this is a correct addition. Mestring is about each patient and user being viewed and met in healthcare in a respectful and dignified way. The government will ensure that all citizens have access to equivalent and good public health and care services. That means we have to make sure that we use the resources in a way that benefits the community. Clear principles for prioritisation throughout the healthcare system will contribute to the use of resources where they are most useful and to those who need them most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1545	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1550	The Solberg government launched as well-known Competence Plan 2020 and Competence Plan 2025, which will contribute to a strong professional health and care service and has contributed to more than 146 000 employees receiving basic, continuing training in Norway. One of the things the Blankholm Committee pointed out in its recommendation was the lack of knowledge and research on the impact of measures and decisions in municipalities. And one of the things that the Competence Summit in 2025 points out is that there is a greater need for research and knowledge about just the decisions and measures that are being taken, and that municipalities need to play a greater role in contributing to it. Then is my question to the Council of State: How will the government follow up the Competence Plan 2025, and how will the government ensure more research and knowledge on decisions and actions for users and patients outside the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1559	It is important that we do something to increase the research effort in the community health service. If you compare with the specialist health service, the knowledge base is very different. Competence level 2025 goes as planned, but there is a need for more knowledge in order to make decisions in line with the priority criteria we are debating today, including in the community health service. It is proposed to develop a knowledge support system to achieve this and to see it in conjunction with the work of the Municipal Strategic Research Body (KSF). This government has announced a national health and interaction plan, and assessments related to such a type of knowledge support system will be included as part of that work. I share the representative's view that we need to get the knowledge base in municipal health services. That's an important priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1566	I have another question, because when the Solberg government presented this big message about priority criteria, one also said in it that one would have a big message about dental care, where one would have an overall review of it. I read from the comments of the government parties that a person uses the word investigation, so my simple question to the government council is: how will the process towards such a big message be, and is there a larger investigation to be made to get it, since a deliberately does not use the word big news, but investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1573	It was the government of Solberg that announced a big message while there was already a request decision in Stortinget about an investigation into the dental field, which – if I do not remember correctly – the Solberg government's parties did not stand behind. I might be wrong about it, so I'll take a little reservation. It's the government's plan to follow up, so it's going to be an investigation work as well as a guide in the supplementary letter to the current year's budget, giving priority to those groups that have the biggest challenges of being able to fund a good dental health for themselves. We're doing this in a sequence where the different investigative work in the dental field, because there's more during work right now, are seen in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1580	In this case, there were some hearings, and the consultation recordings of those working in healthcare point to capacity. Two examples of this are the Psychologists' Association, which questions whether the municipalities really have the conditions to prioritize what is necessary in mental health and drug abuse. The Joint Organisation, FO, states that a prerequisite for the application of the priority criteria is the need to increase the financial framework. When there is such a broad consensus about the priority criteria, while those who work there point out that the capacity makes them not quite able to follow it because it limits them, I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about what the government is planning to strengthen the municipal health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1585	Now I've been in this room quite a lot and I've told you about the planned escalation plan in the mental health field, and it's going to be all about everything from low-threshold mental health services in municipalities to those who need long-term daily treatment. So this government believes that there is a need to increase both the capacity and quality of mental health care and within the different parts of the mental health care we provide, both in the paediatric and youth psychiatry. Fortunately, capacity has increased over the last two years, but we know that the number of references is increasing more – an increase of 30 pst. Since 2019 – this is how we work to increase capacity. Then it is important that, on the part of Stortinget, you have a thorough debate and clear criteria of priority to support the professionals who are in a priority situation every day they go to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1592	It is very good that the government should come up with a stepping-up plan for mental health, and I think that strengthening the number of places on the daily staff will also help both to contribute to that escalation, but also to relieve the municipalities to a much greater extent. But I didn't really just ask about mental health, I asked about the community health service as a whole. So I can ask if the government is planning to strengthen the community health service, as well as the escalation plan available for mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1599	Municipalities need access to professionals. There we have to educate more. We have a process of that, both through the increased number of places of study and not least through the fact that we have set up a health professionals commission, which will provide us with a better analysis of how we train, recruit and retain. So this government has increased the revenues of municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr. We need to finance the service well, and then we also need to contribute to the provision of community health services to the professionals they need to do the tasks today and tomorrow and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1607	As I said in my post, Norway has previously received criticism from the UN that we have not incorporated the CRDP into Norwegian law. Today, many people experience services that need to be organised, such as: BPA, that they often have to complain to the State administrator to get the services they need. This leads parents to spend disproportionately long time, but also to people who could have participated in society — who could have been co-judges, in the workplace or in the social sector — having to sit at home. This also means that only those who have the resources to complain will have the opportunity. So with more mastery in this message, it will oblige the municipalities to actually facilitate more participation. Has the Council of State formed any picture of how this is to be implemented in individual municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1612	I am a little unsure whether I understood the question, but the question of incorporating the CRPD into Norwegian law is stated in the Hurdal platform to be investigated. It's the constitutional responsibility of another State Council, it's in the Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality. I believe that we have good rights in Norwegian law for all those who need health and care services in Norway, that there should not be anything to experience that you do not get. Then it is also important that we have legal remedies, and we do, and that it is treated in a proper way when you believe that you have not received the services you are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1617	As I said in my post, many today spend disproportionately long time and a lot of effort on complaints, and that also leads to an inequality – who has the resources to complain, write these complaints. That is, we get increased inequality between people, the opportunity to participate at the same line in society. Therefore, my question is how the Council of State will ensure that fewer municipalities provide for complaints to the state administrator, and instead ensure that people with disabilities participate in the same way, and that services are available to all, regardless of background and opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1622	We are dealing with a growing awareness of priorities in the healthcare service as a whole. Ensuring responsibility for both the provision and the provision of good health and care services lies with municipalities, for their responsibilities, and with regional health enterprises. What this call for proposals ensures is that the criteria for priority, principles and value base are the same throughout healthcare. Then it's important that we enable the municipalities to deliver good services, and we do that in many ways. One thing is how we finance the municipalities, the other is what laws and rights we give the individual, and the third is how we make sure that they have access to the skills and professionals they need. And then there must be good complaints, and I also feel that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1629	A criterion is introduced that hasn't been there before, and it's mastering, which the Christian People's Party is very pleased to be added. But one thing is to keep it on paper and in a message, something quite different is to get it out in both hospitals and in the community health service. For everything that can be prioritised by size and amount of money, is perhaps easier to prioritize than mastering, with the assessment with great discretion that is often behind. So my question to the Council of State is, what is she thinking about implementing mastering in such a way that it benefits the users, both in hospitals and in community health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1634	I think that addition underlines our continuous health and care service, because that's where the community health service and the specialist health service actually meet. Municipalities have a very good competence in facilitating people to master their lives, while specialist health services are much more likely to accept the patient and will help them with a problem and send them back to the municipalities. So I believe that mastering your life, with the level of function you have, with the disease you have, is a very important and good criterion, and it will strengthen our framework of priority, as the professionals stand in every single day in a very good – and not least sustainable – way, for our health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1641	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1646	There is a great deal of consensus in the room about the priority criteria, but it was my colleague from the Central Party who made it shake a little when it was about annual work in the municipalities. He said there had been a negative development in annual work in municipal health and care services during the Solberg administration. That's not right. From 2015 to 2020, there has been an increase of about 15 000 more annual shifts in care services. It equals an increase of 11,5 pst. It is clear that the legal requirements we introduced in 2018, where we said that the municipalities should have basic competence, i.e. Doctors, nurses, midwives and nurses, and from 2020 psychologists and ergot therapists, have also contributed to strengthening the staffing of municipalities and strengthening the situation. Those living in municipalities are entitled to a certain and specific type of competence, which also helps to increase patients’ health care to a greater extent. Competence commitments for 2020 and 2025, which I have mentioned several times during this debate, have contributed to more than 146 000 health professionals receiving basic, continuing and continuing training in the last four years. The involvement of health professionals and the increased competence of health professionals also contributes to the strengthening of municipal health and care services, so that health professionals are better able to apply the priority criteria and instruments that we are discussing in this matter. I could probably also get into the municipal economy, which has been mentioned here many times. I think the government will soon have spent the 2.5 billion. kr they have been granted to strengthen the municipalities, because last year the SSB figures show that the municipalities are running with quite a solid surplus. The money has been doubled in the municipalities in the last five years, and there have never been fewer municipalities on the ROBEK list, with the exception of 2019, and there have also been significantly fewer municipalities in financial imbalances. So there is something about taking into account the realities of development that have been in the municipalities, both with several annual works in the health and care services and with the fact that municipalities have improved their finances. I believe that is a basis of fact that the Center Party and the Workers' Party also need to take a greater step inward.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1659	I have to be allowed to clarify if I was exposed to an incorrect manufacture. What I said in my post was that ensuring adequate health care staff is our biggest challenge, i.e., in a comprehensive healthcare system. And then I haven't defined whether it was in the municipal health and care service or the specialist services. The clear feedback given to representatives of the Storting – and in particular to the members of the Health and Welfare Committee – on the ongoing and ongoing permanent crisis is due to the mainstay of our healthcare system. It is absolutely crucial to ensure that the very resource of health professionals is present in all the municipalities of the country in a good way. And that's what we do about gripping. Now I'm not going to use this case to start a big debate on what we like to discuss when it comes to structures and how we organize ourselves, but it's absolutely crucial that the Stortinge takes on a necessary responsibility and not least the framework for ensuring that health services are present where people live throughout the country. For that very reason, in my post, I shed light that the market thinking has become a larger and larger part of how we have chosen to organise ourselves from Stortinget when it concerns the health services in this country. That's why I think it's high time – and the government is very clear about it in its work – that now it's time to grab hold of just to ensure that we have enough health professionals where people live, and close to the services that people need in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1670	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1689	We have a large group of ME patients who get little treatment, care and help. We need to get better help for ME sick people and relatives, and I hope that the government will give priority to health care and ensure adapted care and care services for the sick. Many of the ME patients are totally or partly in bed and have a very reduced quality of life. They have e.g. had to be locked in their own homes to protect themselves from light and sound and had to limit personal contact with other people. In February and March, the class struggle had issues about ME disease that clearly showed how difficult it is to live with this disease, which in worst cases takes you away all your life. The fact that young people are often affected makes the situation even more heartbreaking and difficult. These are young people who have been active, studied and participated in society, but who have many years ahead. Let's see. In Norway, between 10,000 and 20,000 people may have had or have had that diagnosis. It's a serious disease, which leads to a severe decrease in quality of life, but many with ME are still being mistrusted. I hope that the government will prioritize resources to find out the cause of the ME, as it is one of the keys to ensuring better treatment and counteracting more people getting the disease. I am pleased that the Health Directorate is in the start-up phase of the review of the NICE guideline and existing knowledge to make a thorough assessment related to the possible revision of our national CFS/ME guides, from 2015. We have to wait and look at the outcome of this, but before it is completed, I hope that the government will give priority to securing and sharing the knowledge that is there. I have been informed by people with ME that in some cases the existing treatment offer may worsen the situation and that the treatment may lead to aggravation of the disease. Therefore, I have to ask the Council of State why ME patients have felt compelled to provide treatment that requires a lot of activity. We at Stortinget should not go in to manage treatment provision in the health sector, but treatment should not exacerbate the situation of sick patients, especially when we have little professional knowledge of which treatment services work for ME patients. In the written question that my SV colleague Bergstø asked about treatment arrangements that could exacerbate the situation, it appears from a survey conducted by Sintef and Fafo that nine out of ten, i.e. 90 pst. of MS disease that carried out rehabilitation under the auspices of Nav, did not improve. ME patients become irritability to treatment courses that may exacerbate the situation. I would like to have a guarantee that no treatment provision that could aggravate the situation can result in sanctions if you do not implement the offer. I wonder, what does the government do to ensure better individualised treatment provision for ME patients? In the case of the most serious ME disease, 40 or more hours per week are spent on care and care tasks. That tells Schei in the ME association. Many patients need it, and many patients need continuous care. We in the SV believe that the community should provide well-being to all those who need it, and that also applies to those who are related to ME patients. We want strong communities that provide for others, and therefore we need to ensure that our municipalities and care services have better knowledge. Therefore, I also wonder: What will the government do to provide adapted care and care services for serious ME disease, and what relief measures does the government plan for their relatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1708	ME is serious to those who are hit, and to their closest. It is important that patients and their relatives meet in healthcare with understanding, care, professionalism and up-to-date knowledge. More measures have been put in place in recent years to improve the provision of treatment to people with ME. Nevertheless, we lack knowledge about specific reasons and how the disease can be treated with good results. This applies both in Norway and internationally. The Health Directorate will now review the knowledge base of the National Adviser on the investigation, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of patients with CFS/ME. It was last updated in 2015. If the Health Directorate sees the need to revise the supervisor, both patient organisations, services and professionals shall be invited to contribute to this work. It must be broadly anchored. I agree with the representative Hussein that the competence for ME and the health service for ME-framed varies too much. Much can be done to increase knowledge and improve competence in both specialist and municipal health services. National competence service for CFS/ME at Oslo University Hospital is in the process of doing so, in cooperation with health regions. e-learning courses have been developed and the competence service contributes to teaching and training in all parts of the healthcare service. In 2020, health regions were assigned to further develop treatment provision for patients with fatigue conditions with unknown cause. Health Mid-Norway has established a steering group across health regions that cooperates with professional environments, including: national professional network and national CFS/ME competence service. The group has, among other things: have provided an overview of treatment provision in the regions and described tasks for a fatigue outpatient clinic and for a patient course that also includes the community health service. Patients with fatigue often have a complex form of disease. The need for follow-up will vary from patient to patient, but the offer must meet the patient’s overall needs and be coordinated with both specialist and municipal services. Nav and school are also important partners. In the municipality, the decision has a central role in the follow-up of patients with ME. Local provision in rehabilitation and cooperation with other health and care services is also important. I also mention that at St. Olav's hospital there is a pilot project on CFS/ME work in the Children's Department, and the company has allocated funds for research. Research at ME has been a priority in assignments and letters of assignment for several years, including: as a separate note in the letter of award to the Research Council. In the budget for 2022, priority shall be given to research aimed at improving the knowledge and treatment provision of ME patients. As you know, the Health Directorate develops a complete patient history for patients with long-term fatigue for unknown reasons, including CFS/ME. The aim of the package trajectory is to contribute to an equivalent and predictable offer, to avoid unnecessary waiting time and to increase user involvement and user satisfaction. The government is concerned that the individual meets with respect and dignity in the health and care services, and that the individual’s need for assistance and support is taken seriously. When knowledge does not provide safe answers, it is all the more important to involve patients and relatives in treatment and follow-up. My wish is that the services exploit this space of opportunity, while at the same time we have to work to raise the knowledge and competence of CFS/ME.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1736	I record that the Council of State is telling me that the Directorate of Health is running a package, and that she shares my view that people should be met with respect and trust. At the same time, the Council of State did not answer my question how the government would then ensure that they get the offer they need in the municipalities, especially those who are seriously ill, because they need help now. We read last week about Aurora, who was in a nursing home, and her family. And many others with ME diagnostics are lying around in dark rooms, either in a nursing home or in the picnic room. I understand that the government is working on adapting and creating a patient process and a package process, but on the way, we should also strive to increase confidence and recognise man in this – and not just create system packages to solve it. For these are people who already say that they feel that they are being mistrusted, that they are being translated into the health system. Patients report that their understanding of the disease and their experience is marginalised in response to the health care system. It's essentially not the package sequence and the system we need to get more in place, but we also need to get an understanding of these patients. That is what patients demand – that they be met with respect and that they be believed in with the symptoms they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1747	People with ME often have a complex form of disease. How the disease species themselves, and what helps the patient, also varies from person to person. Services, research, professional development and policy must be linked In my article I said how we work to get a patient profile for this patient group. We're doing that through an underlying department, the Health Directorate. That's the mission that the Health Directorate has been given by the government, by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I both started and stopped my post saying that in meeting the individual, it is absolutely essential that the services involve patients and relatives actively in treatment and follow-up. For a lot of ME patients, it's also about losing the social framework for their whole life. For young ME patients, it's about losing school. Here, the school is an important partner to facilitate the possibility of receiving the possible education and training given the status of patients. It is continuously working to improve the knowledge base, so that we can further provide effective treatment and therapies for people with fatigue disorders and ME. This work is carried out in cooperation with the professional community, patient organisations and knowledge resources linked to the national network and also the environment at the St. Olav hospital and here at Oslo University Hospital. We need both knowledge spikes that can be in the front to try out new treatments, but also a reinforced basic research to understand more about the causes of ME and fatigue disorders. Then we need more knowledge of the services that meet the individual patient, and that can also vary greatly. It varies how much ME patients meet specialist health services, but most of them are in regular contact with their permanent staff and municipal health services. We have a lot to work with for this patient group. It is important that we go knowledge-based to work and meet each one with understanding, involve the relatives and facilitate as much advice as possible, once one has been put out of life, as often as these patients become.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1768	First, I want to commend the representative Hussein for inviting a debate on ME in Stortinget, on how ME disease is getting the best possible health care. CFS/ME is a disease that needs to be taken as seriously as possible and more than today. We owe this to those who have the disease, relatives and not least society. We hit children, young people and adults. Someone is hit so hard that they stay in bed for years. Others, especially young people, may recover after a period of illness if the disease is properly met. The most comprehensive knowledge report made about ME, we find it in the United States. Here it is made visible to everyone that ME is a serious physical disease that requires treatment then. We're not going to go into the medical debate beyond that. It is not the politicians who are going to find the medical solutions, but we politicians can and should do the following, in the view of the Left: First of all, we want to facilitate that the ME framework is met with respect and professional insight from the very first moment that there is suspicion of ME, and throughout the course of the disease. This applies to health care, school and not least to the Nav system. Secondly, we will put in place a treatment system where there is room for the very sickest without unnecessary waiting time. This requires resources, physical treatment facilities and competences. Thirdly, we will strengthen efforts, increase funding for research in the field of ME, and facilitate the exchange of experience and results in international research. Many have made a great effort to raise the ME issue on the agenda for many years. However, I will allow myself to bring forward especially the family Skrede in Stryn, who, through the annual ME conference – to which the Left has been a driver in order to ensure subsidies, including over the state budget – has put the disease in focus. I also want to draw up Jørgen Gülstad, who through his journalism has made the matter known and understandable to most people. At the same time, I would like to point out that raising ME should also help to raise other hidden diseases that cause long-term suffering to thousands of people and their relatives, without giving them the attention that these diseases should have in the societal debate and in the fight for research resources and treatment capacity. Unfortunately, women’s disease has a consistently lower health status. Typical female diseases, such as endometriosis, are far too little researched on the extent to which they are available to society and to individuals, and they have too poorly developed treatment services. Those who are affected by ME and other chronic diseases that are so serious that all energy is going to deal with the disease, must not take up the fight to be heard and remain alone with it. Now, society must also stand up for those who are hit by ME. The left will join, along with other good forces in this room, to take up that fight, and I hope it starts today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1789	Pain in muscles and joints, various forms of headache, drop in blood pressure, palpitations, dizziness, hypersensitivity to light, sound, taste, smell or touch, impaired balance, experience of muscle weakness, fever, recurring sores throat, sore lymph nodes, nausea, impaired memory and reduced concentration – this is what we talk about when we talk about ME. We don't know how many people suffer from this in Norway. There is no register. No one's counting. Probably there's a place between 10,000 and 20,000 people. They're often young. So much more they don't have in common. If you're going to get a long-term illness, I recommend you get one with an obvious explanation of why. It's much easier. Then you get help. You will then have access to healthcare and social security rights. Then you don't get suspicious and asked to get involved, think a little bit differently, break the pattern. We don't know why people get ME, but that shouldn't be the patient's problem. It is today. ME research has been enormously polarized. The diagnosis itself is controversial. Patient associations protest against psychosocial explanatory models that bring with them treatments that might do someone better, but other patients. ME-sickness has been met with suspicion that has become a serious additional burden for many. People who can barely get out of bed to pull up the blinds without getting sicker, have been forced on Nav measures. The treatment offered to ME patients in Norway has been graduated from physical training, cognitive behavioural therapy and mastering courses. In the autumn, the UK export body NICE came up with new guidelines that discourage the use of psychosocial services and classified physical training as treatment for ME. When NICE advises against this type of treatment, it is because the review of research does not clearly show that it has any effect and that many patients have become worse of it. In Norway, we have not yet updated our guide. The ministry says a process is in progress, but in the meantime, ME-sickness still has to go through this in order to get social security rights. There are more problems with that. One is that it's very unclear whether it helps, and that it can actually make people sicker. The second is that the waiting lists for investigation are so long that many have to wait for one year. In addition, many say that Nav requires measures they are not entitled to from the public, so they have to pay private from their own pocket. Following the arrival of the new guidelines from NICE, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare sent out a circular. This opens up the possibility that some people will be too sick to benefit from these measures. The treating physician must assess it and, where appropriate, document why it has not been completed. The ME association says that the practice and interpretation of what is ‘too sick to recover’ varies both within Nav and between the PCs. I have been in contact with several people who say that despite medical statements of deterioration, they have been denied disability benefit because Nav wants to wait and see if they are getting fresher enough for treatment. Recently, a Norwegian research report showed that seven out of ten ME patients reported deterioration after participating in rehabilitation under the auspices of Nav. When research determines that these treatments can make people sicker, we cannot continue to demand that they be carried out. These are people who have lost years of life to pain and disease. The least we can do is to make sure that they have financial security, and that the health care we provide is actually for help, not for harm. These people -- many of them -- are too sick to fight. Their relatives are tired. They don't get the help they need, and then it's us people-elects who have to stand up to make sure that the injustice they've been subjected to doesn't go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1806	Today we're talking about a patient group that has incredibly large numbers of darkness, and I think, unfortunately, that when we're going to read in history, we were never good enough in 2022 and 2023 and before that to treat this patient group. The World Health Organisation concluded over 50 years ago that this is a neurological disease, and they have not changed it. Nevertheless, this patient group experiences having a discussion if it really is. We know little about this patient group. Unfortunately, many choose not to visit the health service, because they have experienced it so demanding sometimes that they do not. It also means that they don’t get into a good enough dialogue, or treatment – and then I’m not just thinking about treatment where we know they’re getting better, but where one comes to discuss and hear what the needs are. Unfortunately, there has been a discussion in the professional community about this group. Is that a neurological disease? Is it a physical disease, or isn't it? Once the World Health Organization has established this, I think it is in fact unproblematic and should be unproblematic not to add stones to the burden on this patient group. That's why I'm incredibly grateful that the representative Marian Hussein is taking this up, because here we have a way to go together. Research becomes an arrow, research and not least knowledge of how to meet this patient group. Many have received offers that have become incorrect, and where they have become iller. The trade unions discuss more between themselves, and then this patient group does not fit into the system, unfortunately. I've met kids who've been away from school, parents who've been reported to child protection, and who, in a way, have won that fight, and those who've built themselves a house on the outside of their own house, because they're not able to be with people where there's a lot of noise, those who can't take care of themselves because they're so sick. These patients require more of us than they want to fight the system. That's why more money has been given to research, but we're far from the goal. I would like the Council of State – and at least she will receive support from the Christian People's Party – to lift this patient group. One needs that others see what's behind, and what's behind it, and that they also get a status in the research environment that gets research over time, so they can know that it might be that we find both treatment and knowledge to be able to live better with this disease than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1821	ME disease has been present in our society for many years, but at the end of the 1900s fatigue conditions were largely redefined from physical illness to mental illness. At the same time, the causal explanation moved from the fact that the disease was socially created to the lack of individual mastering ability. It moved from a human disease to a female disease. That is, we went from the male neuronstini diagnosis, which was first explained by social relationships, to the female diagnosis ME, which was explained by the lack of individual mastering skills. The consequences of this are — as the previous speaker pointed out — that there is not enough good research in this area. ME is being neglected in research as very much other female disease. Long-term exhaustion is no longer understood as a legitimate state of disease, but as a result of women's inability to master; many are told to tighten up a little. In our culture you are easily misunderstood and stigmatized. My goal in lifting this case is not to land in which procedures are best. In politics, we often develop solutions and propose that they be followed. We need to treat this patient group better, and we need to create a health system that is health-threatening to them. The different systems to interact — whether it is school or Nav — must work together to see these people as individuals and to get the help they need. Their parents and relatives also have to get enough relief and someone who listens to them when it turns down. It's also important that we create a bigger room to accept that someone is sick, without having to document it with biological findings. And as we were in the previous case, you also have to arrange for those people to master their lives in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1832	ME patients experience being out of their own lives. It is a heavy burden on relatives, and one lives with frustration associated with the lack of good practices. There is also no knowledge that can tell us exactly what the causes are. I want to commend the interpellant for raising the question and the attention to the ME patients. It is important to be met with respect and understanding no matter what health care needs you have, and whether you can document the cause of the health problems you experience to the extent that it does for fatigue disorders and ME. It is important that we continue the development of knowledge and that we do more research. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has prioritised research at ME through specific leadership to the Norwegian Research Council. This year’s budget highlights the priority of increased knowledge. Fortunately, research activity has increased in recent years, but there is still a great need for better knowledge of CFS and ME. It is important that researchers make use of the opportunities available when publishing research funds in this area. There have been many studies, including: in Haukeland on the use of rituximab. It ended in 2018, and those of us who have been in this room for several years and have discussed the situation for the ME patients before know that it was associated with a lot of hope and expectation and disappointment that it did not give desired results. The Norwegian Research Council states that from 2012 to 2024, because they also look forward on time, they finance 12 projects with less than 70 million. kr, and that this is a broad range of different research projects, themes ranging from the monitoring of the immune system, energy failure of CFS/ME patients to projects with more social-scientific devices, where disease incidence and demographics, and socio-economic characteristics of these patients are also subject to research. We need a wide entrance to break these nuts and solve these puzzles, so that we can meet ME patients in the future, not only with understanding – of course – but also with effective treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1844	Then the interpellation debate was in case no. Eight is going to be over. It's going to be voting at 4:00 p.m. 15 before we proceed to Case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1856	The size then goes to voting on case No. 1-7 and Case No. 10 on today's map. Case No. 1 is the second time the law is handled and the law is governed by Decision 57. There is no comment suggestion. Thus, the law passed on a second time and was sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1891	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-7, by Grete Wold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposed no. 8-12, by Grete Wold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, by Tobias Drivenland Lund on behalf of Red Proposal No. 13 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to resources for continuing training and training of competences for multidisciplinary education, including training in and on sustainable development and global citizenship.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1920	Proposal No. 8-12, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include a representative of young civil society in the National Forum on Sustainable Development Goals’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to instruct relevant parts of the administrative apparatus to show practical guidance to purchasers the diversity of regulatory options for sustainable procurement.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make it clear to state purchasers that the legislation should be fully exploited in order to select sustainability, climate and environment-focused suppliers.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to integrate the multi-disciplinary theme ‘Sustainable Development’ into the curricula of English and mathematics, in line with the curriculum group’s proposals.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a stronger assessment of how Norwegian food, climate and environment policies should better facilitate green enterprise transformation by providing a package of measures to promote green enterprise transformation in the country’s small and medium-sized enterprises.’ The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1960	Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to establish a model for a state-owned electricity company.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e1977	Proposal No. 1-3 and 5-7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further work on the UN Sustainable Development Goals to include measures to reduce Norway’s negative impact on other countries and to provide its own measuring points to measure Norway’s impact on the global achievement of the UN’s sustainability objectives.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review current arrangements in the Loan Fund so that they do not restrict the possibility of education for any group.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a public job creation programme to provide climate-friendly jobs, such as climate adaptation in municipalities or restoration of nature, which is scalable according to the economic situation in the Norwegian economy.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government in the completion of the sustainability measurement points to change the measurement point under Sub-Objective 9.2. to the following: Share of sustainability certification, energy management or environmental certification activities [[ISO 500001, 14064 and 14001, EMAS or Environmental Lighthouse]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size request of the government in the completion of the sustainability measurement points includes the following measurement point under Sub-Objective 9.4: Share of business operators certified by third parties with ISO14001, EMAS or Environmental Lighthouse.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the completion of the sustainability measurement points to include the following measurement point under sub-measure 12.6: Number of companies that have established environmental management systems and associated climate and environmental reporting [[ISO 14001, EMAS or Environmental Lighthouse]] The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2042	During the debate André N. Skelstad presented a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to return to the question of amendments to Section 11, second paragraph, No. 11 of the Law on Legal Aid. 4 in the context of the bill on new law on legal aid.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2106	The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2120	President, I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2125	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2130	Then we take the vote on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2143	Furthermore, it was set: II In Law No 26 March 1999 17 on lease-in contracts, Paragraphs 12 to 5 are replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2211	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2221	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2233	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, by Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the comprehensive national racial and scaffolding plan contains a timely implementation plan with the aim of racially securing all registered scaffolding points on high- and medium-step national highways.’ The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2259	Proposal No. 1-4, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to follow up the work carried out by the State Road Service in connection with the step factor model and that all relevant projects are assessed on the basis of two levels of protection with corresponding measures and cost analyses. Furthermore, the Stortinget government asks for the local government to be well involved in the work.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a tailor-made innovation programme. The Programme should support alternative solutions and pre-slip protection levels, on both state and state roads, and five on everything from simple tailor-made monitoring to heavy infrastructure measures.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether today’s road maintenance operational contracts are optimal in terms of early involvement and to open enough to enable one to implement innovative solutions. In this context, it should be assessed whether an increase in the use of incentive schemes as part of the operating contracts may be appropriate.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an incentive scheme for the investigation, installation and operation of preventive tailor-made and warning systems.’ The Greens have already supported the proposals by the Reds, the Lefts and the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2312	During the debate, Mr Sve has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size assumes that the need for funding increased as a result of the increase in the cost framework for R & D. 13 Rye fasts are not covered by tolls.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2372	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Advance Party and Red proposal No 2, by Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 3, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that knowledge and attention on the priority criteria are included in the curricula for health education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2399	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the way in which current funding models affect the priority decisions in the health and care services, as recommended in the NOU of the Blankholm Committee.’ The Left and the Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2416	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the level of alternative costs for priority decisions at the level of the health and care services group.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2538	The size then goes back to the treatment of today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2552	Thank you for the opportunity to explain to the Storting about the government’s strategy and contingency plan for further management of the coronary apathy. On 12 February, the government terminated most of the infectious diseases control measures. We proposed a transition with fewer measures and rules, and more personal responsibility. After that, we've had a period of large spread of infection, larger than ever under the pandemic. Nevertheless, few have become seriously ill, which is linked to good protection from serious illness through vaccination — and that the omicron variant gives less serious disease. Now we see clear signs that the spread of infection and hospitalisation are going down again. Overall mortality in Norway has been below the expected level through large parts of the pandemic. During the autumn and winter, however, we have seen high numbers for both hospitalisations and deaths. It is associated with a lot of infection in society, how many patients admitted for reasons other than covid-19 are simultaneously infected with the coronary virus. The same applies to deaths: many now die with covid-19 and not because of covid-19. Those who die with or because of covid-19 have an average old age and often underlying disease. The fact that we're now seeing a decline in the spread of infection means that we're over in a new phase. Now we're going to learn to live with the coronavirus in society. We want to normalize how we relate to the virus, and the government's strategy is just such a live-with strategy. As of today, the threat from the pandemic is small here in Norway. We have a high degree of vaccination, and many have been infected or both. This means that the population is largely protected from serious illness, and therefore there is less need for measures to limit infection. The specific advice to be at home for four days after coronary infection is deleted. From now on, professional advice will be left to the Institute of Public Health. But the pandemic is by no means over. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the development of infection, what variants of viruses we can encounter, and when a new variant can arise. Therefore, there is still a need for good monitoring and preparedness to detect, assess and deal with adverse developments early. A new virus variant with high disease severity may in turn provide a basis for strict measures. The war in Ukraine reminds us that unforeseen events can come at any time. There have already been many refugees from Ukraine to Norway, and we are preparing for many in the future. In the event of a new spread of infection, we must also take responsibility for those who have applied for refuge with us. The overall objective of the strategy is to ensure life and health while keeping society open and the economy functioning as normal as possible. The Government considers that the further management of the pandemic should be based on the following basic principles: Society and the economy shall operate as normally as possible. The immunity of the population shall be maintained. The burden of sickness shall be kept low. Vulnerable groups must be protected. Priority shall be given to children and young people. Society must be prepared for a worsening situation. The management shall be knowledge-based. The management shall be targeted and coordinated. The basis for the handling shall be open. Norway shall contribute to global work. We now hope to be able to normalize how we relate to covid-19, even though the virus will be in society in the future as well. Hopefully we'll release new rounds of infectious diseases, even if people will be infected by the corona virus, end up in hospitals with covid-19 and die of covid-19. But covid-19 is still something new compared to the seasonal viruses we're familiar with. There is uncertainty about the way forward. Therefore, we need our own strategy and increased preparedness as a result of the coronavirus. With a high degree of immunity in the population, there is good hope that the pandemic can be managed without the use of burdensome measures to prevent infection. Measures to mitigate the burden of disease and shield risk groups shall be balanced against the need to avoid burdensome and interventional measures. We do not want more stringent measures than necessary, and children and young people must continue to be given priority if action is needed. Norway will be affected as long as we have a global pandemic. Therefore, Norway will continue to contribute to global work. The government has managed the pandemic with a strategy that is flexible, so that we can adapt at any time to changes in the situation. We had a completely different situation before Christmas, with a new and unknown virus variant, than what we have today. Nevertheless, there are elements of the strategy I am presenting today, which you will recognize from the past. The government is concerned that we will in the future be better prepared for a worsening and new development than what we were in the autumn of 2021. So we are now better prepared and we have more tools in the toolbox than we had then. The main instruments of the strategy up to June 2023 are: monitoring and analysis to provide us with information on possible developments in the pandemic; vaccination knowledge of the severity of the disease and the spreadability of the virus; adequate preparedness and capacity in the different sectors a crisis management system, where necessary, with clear tools in the toolbox; There shall be open communication on the situation, risk assessment and management objective and on the basis of decisions. The further course of the pandemic depends, inter alia, on: the interaction between the characteristics of the virus, that is, disease severity and spreadability, the immunity of the population, the behaviour of the population and the risk factors for serious disease. It is important that all those with responsibilities and tasks are aware of the basic principles of the government's strategy and contingency plan. It provides a basis for a common understanding of the evolution of the situation. Understanding the situation and dissemination of uncertainty will affect the perception of seriousness of the population and society. We are therefore very concerned that uncertainties and possible developments in the pandemic are being communicated correctly and openly. There are still many uncertain factors that may influence how the pandemic can develop in Norway. The government believes that the management of the pandemic must be dynamic and based on the current state of society. It must be taken into account that other simultaneous events can present challenges for health and care services, but also for society at large. It could in turn affect the management of the pandemic. This could be done, for example, by: be another health crisis or a major increase in migration, as we experience today. In the strategy, we have drawn up four scenarios that say something about the starting point for preparedness until June 2023. The scenarios are theoretical rather than assumptions for further development, but a useful back ground for preparedness planning. The scenarios range from an estimated best outcome with little serious disease and little infection – resulting in a moderate harvest and winter wave – to a scenario that describes a worst outcome with a severe wave of infection and a new variant that causes many to become seriously ill. Such a scenario is unlikely to occur, but it is not excluded. The strategy's starting point is that society should function normally, but that we are constantly prepared for a worsening situation and can react quickly. The objective of preparedness for covid-19 is to enable society to react rapidly if monitoring indicates that the epidemic threatens to impose a significant disease burden or critical burden on healthcare. In turn, it will enable us to achieve as effectively as possible the normalisation and re-establishment of an open society. Local and national authorities must have good contingency plans and be prepared to make rapid use of them where necessary. All sectors shall assess their own plans and the need for preparedness for the government's strategy and contingency plan. The management of the pandemic shall initially follow the responsibilities and task-sharing system as it is in a normal situation. At the same time, we will have a crisis management system that can quickly come into force upon changes in the pandemic. The core of the government's strategy is that we should be able to detect a change in the situation early, for example. a new virus variant, so that we can respond quickly and correctly to the changed situation. The Public Health Institute and the Municipalities shall provide general infective medical advice and guidance. Transparency and dialogue with professionals and the population on the basis of knowledge and assessments underlying the measures are important for citizens’ confidence and support for the measures. The normal practice is for municipalities to decide locally, if proportionate. However, if monitoring shows that the pandemic is developing in a negative direction and intervention is needed at national level, the government will take decisions based on professional advice and assessments. The decisions shall take into account the impact of infectious diseases on society in all areas. This means both health consequences, other welfare consequences and economic consequences. Many infectious diseases control measures affect human rights obligations – such as the right to privacy, family life and freedom of movement, and children’s rights. The measures could also have an impact on the obligations under the EEA Agreement on the free movement of persons, services, goods and capital. Those obligations must be taken into account when assessing the possible use of measures. I'll now review how we're going to deal with the pandemic in practice. The prerequisite for taking down much of the standing preparedness is good monitoring in order to quickly identify threats, good plans to be able to take action quickly if necessary, and not least high immunities in the population. Monitoring and knowledge systems have been developed during the pandemic. These will be of great benefit and are important tools in the management of the pandemic. These are systems to be maintained and further developed to ensure up-to-date information on the situation so that we can quickly detect and act on new threats. We also need knowledge about the impact of interventions and how new variants affect the health, treatment and follow-up of the population. The Public Health Institute, Health Directorate, Municipalities and Health Companies must have monitoring capacity to ensure up-to-date information on the situation. We need to be prepared to strengthen knowledge acquisition and monitoring, assessment and advice if the situation changes. Ensuring a high level of immunity through vaccination is a central measure of the government’s strategy. The most important instrument we have is an offensive vaccine strategy. High levels of vaccination reduce the burden of disease, and we can avoid burdensome measures to prevent infection. In the 18-year-olds, the population is now 90.6 pst. vaccinated with two doses, and we want that proportion to increase further. We will continuously assess the need for refreshment doses, and there will be an offer in the municipalities for vaccination to those who want to start or complete their vaccination. Municipalities shall also have vaccination plans to ensure that parts or all of the population can be re-vaccinated at short notice if necessary. Municipalities may organise the vaccinations as they deem most appropriate, in order to achieve the highest possible level of vaccination coverage, and they must be prepared for the possibility that the oldest and at risk groups may need new doses of refreshment for the harvest, or earlier. We have vaccine preparedness stocks, the government has entered into procurement contracts, and we are participating in the EU's further procurement of vaccines. It also includes new variant vaccines. Citizens shall have access to information on the benefits and possible disadvantages of vaccines, and we shall seek full knowledge of the effectiveness, duration and protection of vaccines and of how different vaccination strategies work. The continued development of treatment methods and medicinal products allows us to provide a better range of services to those who still become seriously ill with coronary disease. All parts of society must have plans for the introduction of contact mitigation measures to slow down the spread of infection — if appropriate. The government, in cooperation with the Public Health Institute, the Health Directorate and various sectors, has developed an overall framework of action packages containing both hygiene measures and contact mitigation measures. These are, of course, measures we hope to avoid using, but we cannot rule it out. The aim is to contribute to predictability for the population and sectors and to provide a basis for better planning and preparedness. The measures need to be assessed in a concrete manner, in the light of the current situation and the updated knowledge base, before they are introduced. For the area of entry, there is also a framework for action packages. Experience has shown that this type of action has not prevented neither the alpha, delta or omicron variants from entering Norway. However, being able to catch cases at the border has been valuable in delaying the spread of infection and reducing the burden on healthcare. We need to be ready for rapid action in testing, isolation, infection detection and quarantine – the so-called TISK system, which we have all learned – to limit the spread of infection. Municipalities must be prepared to test the population and health care establishments must be prepared to analyse samples. It is assumed that the municipalities will be compensated for the additional costs needed as a result of this increased preparedness. Municipalities and health establishments must have emergency storage facilities with infection protection equipment and supply plans for that type of equipment. Under the pandemic, a national stockpile of infectious equipment has been established and the government is now looking at the future level and organisation of that stockpile. Provisional stocks of critical medicinal products for supply have also been established in the municipal and specialist health services under the pandemic. The government is now assessing the volume of stocks and the organisation. Korona certificates have been put into service in Europe and are intended to facilitate increased cross-border mobility in the EU during the pandemic. The government is working to maintain the solution as a standby and to meet the needs of the population in the event of travel. Health services must be able to mobilise, scale and handle waves of covid-19, while at the same time managing other conditions and diseases that may occur. It includes staff redeployment plans so that capacity can be rapidly scaled up, both in general and in intensive hospital capacity in particular. Countries and municipalities need to be prepared to communicate on the situation and to deal with all groups of the population, including those who speak little Norwegian, who little follow Norwegian media, or who have low digital competence. Close cooperation with Nordic countries and with the EU will continue. It has contributed to mutual information, improved knowledge base, monitoring and evaluation, and improved procurement agreements for vaccines. In particular, as regards access to vaccines, Norway’s cooperation with the EU has been crucial and has contributed to the previous vaccination of the population. This cooperation is important for Norway in the future. The government has therefore decided to seek Norway’s participation in the EU’s enhanced health preparedness on as equal terms as possible with the EU Member State. Norway participates and contributes significantly internationally to the global supply of vaccines and other health goods, including to low-income countries. This work shall continue and have an impact on the development of the entire pandemic globally. The pandemic's not over. Although the numbers are positive here at home, there is a growing spread of infection elsewhere in the world. Therefore, it is important to remember that the pandemic is not over in Norway until it is over globally. That means we're going to live with this virus and this pandemic for a while. Many have had it tough in the last two years, not least for children and young people. The oldest and other vulnerable groups have been particularly affected. Some of us have known that it's hard to stand in a pandemic that 'never' ends. For our professionals too, it has been tough, and for two years, they have made an invaluable effort. The Coronapandemic has shown us that our common public health service is not only security in everyday life, it is also an important bulwark in times of crisis, and it is the profit of the professionals. Now we've taken back our daily lives, and together we're going to live normally again. But if development goes in the wrong direction, we're prepared to act quickly if necessary. The Government’s strategy and contingency plan shall ensure that we monitor and closely monitor developments. We're prepared, we're flexible and predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-05.ana.ud90e2721	The President will propose that the distribution by the Minister of Health of the strategy and preparedness for further management of the covid-19 pandemic be sent to the Health and Care Committee. - It's a note. Then today's maps are ready. Would you like a word before the meeting is deleted? - It's not set, and the meeting has been cancelled.
