ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e102	Honourable co-representatives! Former PAC Jan-Henrik Fredriksen left quickly on Saturday, March 7, 2020, at 63 years of age. Fredriksen was born on 2 October 1956 in Kragerø, Telemark. He trained as a welder and had a long-standing professional career in his field, with 25 years as a welder and plumber, both offshore and on land, mainly in oil and gas-based installations, before the policy became all-encompassing. Although Fredriksen was born and raised in Kragerø, it was like Finnmarking we got to know him. He entered into politics fully as political vice-chairman of Finnmark FrP in 2000, and later also as head of state, as well as the many other positions he held locally and regionally. Jan-Henrik Fredriksen represented the Progress Party, but he represented Finnmark equally. He also did so at Stortinget, for 12 consecutive years, from 2005 to 2017, as the party's first representative from Finnmark ever. Both big and small things that concerned Finnmark, engaged him, there are conditions for salmon fishing, the possibility of a railway from the churches and across to Finland and the great nutritional potential of Finnmark. His commitment also made it natural for him to represent both the Nordic Council of Ministers, from 2005 to 2009, and not least the British delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, from 2013 to 2017. In his time at Stortinget, he sat in the Health and Care Committee from 2005 to 2009 and became heavily involved in questions about neck injuries, in order to facilitate the everyday life of people with such injuries, a job for which he received much praise and which also gave results. He was a member of the Transport and Communications Committee from 2009 to 2013 and of the Energy and Environment Committee from 2013 to 2017. Although he spent a lot of time in Oslo, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen was a politician who remembered where he came from. He maintained good contact with the local parties at home in Finnmark and was also engaged in what was going on in local politics at the time he sat down as a magnificent representative. He always had time to be contacted when others needed help or good advice. The co-workers of Storting knew Jan-Henrik Fredriksen as a humorist and as a duty-fulfilling, caring and harsh person. He had a great heart for the Advance Party, for the employees of the party and of the big group, and not least for all the colleagues on the Stortinget, regardless of party membership. We bring peace to Jan-Henrik Fredriksen's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e131	The representatives Gisle Meininger Saudland, Hans Andreas Limi, Marianne Sivertsen Neess, Grunde Almeland and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: – by the Workers' Group on leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, representing Sverre Myrli, from 22 March until further notice, – by the Group of the Progressive Alliance on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative Roy Steffensen from 22 March onwards and until further notice, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus: Tobias Hangaard Linge For Rogaland: May Helen Hetland Ervik
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e180	Tobias Hangaard Linge and May Helen Hetland Ervik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e191	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e196	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Kirsti Bergstø, Lars Haltbrecken, Andreas Shelg Unneland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on tax liability when moving from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e202	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e207	In the light of the high electricity prices, I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives Dag-Inge Ulstein, Olaug Vervik Bollestad and myself to exempt the households from online rental, which is particularly hard for those who have low and also regular revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e212	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e230	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e246	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e260	There is war in Europe, and it is a brutal reminder of what foreign policy is all about. In a week, on 29 March, it is 73 years since this will vote – at roll call – over the setting of staging proposition No. 40 that year. So it was in 1949. Of the 150 representatives – at the time there were 143 men and 7 women – almost all were present in the hall. In a crowded gallery, the audience would follow the discussion at the time. With 130 to 13 votes, the Stortinget decided that Norway should sign and ratify a treaty for the North Atlantic region, the Atlantic Pact. In Washington seven days later, the agreement was signed by then Secretary of State Lange. Norway had become a member of NATO. NATO membership has long defined our place in the world for two generations. It was a choice that made it clear what Norway is, who Norway is, and which side we are on when it really applies. In the last few days, I have often thought about the decision Stortinget took that day, about the significance of this decision and about the importance of our foreign policy elections – elections that later generations would take as a matter of course, but at that time it was not a matter of course. There were demanding choices in the demanding political landscape of the time. In these times it is close to reflecting on what Norway would be today if the Storting had chosen differently that day in 1949. Not since World War II in Europe have we had war acts with consequences like what we are now witnessing. Russia’s warfare in Ukraine changes the security policy situation in Europe and thus also the framework for Norwegian foreign and security policy. Now we have an unstable, unpredictable and thus more dangerous Russian neighbour in the north. 30 years of development of Norwegian neighbourhood policy with Russia has changed. It will shape our north-eastern policy. Finland may decide to apply for NATO membership. Sweden can follow suit. How Finland and Sweden finally conclude is sovereign up to our two neighbouring countries. Equally full is a strategic and security policy turning point for the Nordic region, and thus also for Norway, in the field of education. The role of NATO as a collective defence alliance has been strengthened, but at the same time the EU has gained new and concrete relevance as a security policy actor. Persistent uncertainty related to policy developments in the United States will contribute to a greater European balance in the formulation of European security policy. Long-term acts of war in Ukraine, where the direct role of NATO is limited in order to avoid escalation and dispersal, will clarify the security policy division of labour between NATO and the EU. It is too early to assess the full range of impacts on Norwegian security and Norwegian foreign policy, but the consequences can be considerable. In addition to ongoing contact with the bodies of the Storting, I will invite the Stortinge to cooperate on how to ensure a broad consensus on Norwegian security policy interests during the spring, and before the NATO summit. The government will also come back to Stortinget with suggestions on how we can deal with long-term consequences for Norwegian interests. Yesterday, Sweden's Prime Minister, Magdalena Andersson, visited the Cold Response NATO exercise. With her, she had the opposition leader, Ulf Kristersson. It's talkative. As Prime Minister Andersson said, we disagree with many things, but we are both fighting for Sweden's security. This isn't the time to promote old chefs or say 'what was I saying'. Now we have to evaluate the situation as it is, in common. Now we have to show Norway our best, show our ability to stand together when it really applies, not to misunderstand each other consciously in the change of words in security policy and show our ability to cooperate with our neighbours. In the immediate crisis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has temporarily strengthened the staffing of several Norwegian foreign stations in Eastern Europe. In the longer term, the government will strengthen our ability to understand and analyse a new security and foreign policy situation for Norway. We've had several good decades behind us, a deep peace here. Central Norwegian security and foreign policy interests and our own neighbourhood have been little challenged. For 30 years we've been lucky. It's different now. I am therefore in the process of reviewing the position of the EEAS in order to equip us with a new era of diplomacy in Europe, in order to ensure entirely basic Norwegian interests in time in front of us. We have to do some clear priorities. So today's foreign policy horizon is a disturbing picture. Russia's aggressive warfare in Ukraine is the most striking, but behind it – as a result of it – we know the contours of something much bigger, which will affect not only Norwegian security policy and our relationship with Russia, but also the whole European landscape. It will affect markets, it will affect energy prices, it will affect food shortages, and there is a real danger of humanitarian crises in Europe to an extent that we have not seen in many decades. Global growth can be halted and replaced by stagflation. We see weak and collapsed states in Europe's neighbourhoods. We see increasing major activisation, increased tension and a more self-reliant and authoritarian China. We see pressure on the UN and the multilateral world order. Global disarmament work may stop. All of this is happening in the midst of a climate crisis that hastens more than ever to solve. That's the picture we have in front of us. Norway is perhaps the country in the world that is best equipped to meet this. Here in the country, we have all the prerequisites for getting our senses through, but it's going to be demanding for all of us. We will be faced with demanding elections, elections which, like the Storting decision of March 1949, will help define Norway in the world. The government is focusing on a clear and predictable foreign policy. The world condemns Russia's brutal warfare and supports Ukraine's fight for freedom and democracy. For Norwegian and European security, the war is a turning point. Democracy, freedom and international law must also be defended by action. Norway is constantly working with European partners and allies in our response to Russia. There is a historical humanitarian line between Ukraine and Norway. Stalin's brutal policy in the 1920s and 1930s led to famine in Ukraine, where millions of people died of hunger at that time. The Ukrainians call the period of the 1930s Holodomor – killing in starvation. The Nordics made a difference during these famines. Our Minister of State and Foreign Affairs in 1933, Johan Ludwig Mowinckel, was also the head of the Council of the League of Nations. He worked actively to get the League involved in the famine. He said, "Millions are dead from hunger -- it doesn't allow me to be silent." But the acts of the storm at that time were still. They chose not to respond. The Ukrainians noticed this. In a newspaper in Lviv, one could read in the autumn of 1933 that Mowinckel remains part of the story of the Ukrainian people’s struggle in Europe. It also remains Fridtjof Nansen, who in the 1920s brought relief to the people of Ukraine. This year it is 100 years since he received the Nobel Peace Prize for, among other things. that work. Once again, a brutal dictator in Moscow has caused suffering to the people of Ukraine. This time we're going to carry on the legacy of Mowinckel and Nansen. Nearly three million people have fled Ukraine. The Ukrainian people urgently need humanitarian aid, and we responded immediately. So far we've put 2 billion. humanitarian aid to Ukraine and neighbouring countries. About 1 billion. kr is distributed, and most of it has been paid. We also contribute through the EU response mechanism. We have contributed surgical and medical consumables and medicines. We want to help with a medical team and hospitals, and we've offered ambulances. We have also offered tents and cots, upon request from Moldova. New requests from Ukraine and neighbouring countries are being considered on an ongoing basis. We contribute with support to the efforts of humanitarian organisations in Ukraine and neighbouring countries. Support is rapid and flexible so that organisations can plan their efforts at all times in areas where they see the needs greater. We've paid 250 million. EUR 350 million for the UN regional response plan. kr to the Red Cross movement. We contribute through Norwegian organisations so that they can provide protection for children and women, cash support and life-saving relief. Help is in use. With Norwegian support, the Red Cross has delivered 200 tonnes of emergency aid to Ukraine. Save the Children and UNICEF support children who have been affected by the war. In addition, we support the World Bank and the European Development Bank’s contribution to Ukraine and neighbouring countries. A number of European countries have sent military equipment to Ukraine. Norway has sent Panserver rockets and military protective equipment. Penalties from the EU, the United States and other countries have sent Russia's economy in a free fall, and Norway has joined the comprehensive EU sanctions package. We've frozen all State pension funds abroad's investments in Russia and will sell us down. Several Norwegian companies are withdrawing from Russia. We do not yet know for sure how Russia will react. President Putin refers to the sanctions as an economic war. Many demonstrate against the war, including in Russia. Thousands are under arrest. The media is censored, and the Russian people cannot serve the truth of the war and its atrocities. The war affects the domestic political situation in Russia, but how and to what extent we do not yet know. But we know this: the Moscow regime has underestimated the strength of the values they attack. It has underestimated the cohesion of Europe, the ties between the Atlantic and Ukrainian leaders and the ability and will of people to resist. Ukraine is fighting for its freedom, but they are also fighting for a free Europe – for a Europe in which international law continues to regulate relations between states, for a Europe in which democracy, freedom and peaceful relations are what defines us, not ethnic nationalism, distorted thoughts of their own greatness and oppression of others. Europe has changed fundamentally. The EU is different from before the war; it is an EU that is more united than ever. The EU has taken decisions that would be unmistakable before the war. The same is true of most Member States. The war in Ukraine has had and will have major consequences, including for Norway. Firstly, it will affect the security policy in our own neighbourhood. We now have a self-elevating and aggressive neighbour in the east who is willing to use military power to achieve his goals. It's a reality we have to deal with, but our security policy has to remain recognizable and predictable. Deterrence and tranquillity remain the main elements of our approach to Russia. Even in today's situation, we can't choose between these two, but it's not that deterrence and reassurance are two equal sizes. Deterrence is the foundation of our security. It's NATO. Reconciliation should help to prevent misunderstandings, reduce tension and promote dialogue. We need both. It is vital for our security that Norway can be strengthened by allies in crisis and war. It requires that we practice and train with allies in peacetime. It requires pre-storers to be there in advance, not after the crisis is a fact. It requires planning and infrastructure to be in place. A lot is done. At the same time, we are far away from the device we had before 1990. In the 1990s and 2000s, most of the allied infrastructure was closed in Norway. Therefore, the additional defence cooperation agreement with the United States, called the SDCA agreement, is so important. We need infrastructure in Norway to receive reinforcements, and that is what the agreement is supposed to contribute to. Reinforcement policy and all its elements — exercise, training, pre-storage and infrastructure — are not a threat to Norwegian base policy, they are a prerequisite for basic policy. The goal has always been the same: strengthening in crises and wars, not permanent presence. It is essential that we show solidarity with our allies, as we ourselves expect solidarity if we need it one day. Therefore, Norway has soldiers in Lithuania as part of NATO’s forward-looking forces, and we will consider further contributions if we are asked to do so. At the same time, solitude remains important. Norway does not constitute, has never been and shall not pose a threat to Russia. That's why it's been important for us to draw up clear boundaries in our work on the SDCA agreement. Norwegian basic policy, nuclear policy and restrictions on foreign military activity in Norway in peacetime remain constant. We have close and good cooperation with our allies. At the same time, we are limiting allied military activity that may be provocative on Russia. Our self-imposed restrictions have always been just that – we have chosen them ourselves. The architect of Norway's security policy through the Cold War, Jens Christian Hauge, said in his own way in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in the summer of 1950: ‘We have deliberately renounced the purely military advantage of having allied forces in Norway in peace. We have done so with good faith because we have made a political assessment, but we have said that our basic policy will in no way prevent us from doing so in our country that external assistance can come as quickly as possible and become effective as soon as possible." [[...]] He said that on 22 June, the summer of 1950, and this has been the basis of Norwegian basic policy: no foreign bases on Norwegian soil, but exercise and training in peacetime. We've been striving for openness around military exercises in Norway all along. We're warning Russia in advance. We are keeping an open communication line between the Defence Operational Headquarters and the North Fleet – also today. These self-selected constraints do not weaken our security, they strengthen it. We have chosen them ourselves, as we chose NATO membership, entirely on our own. Another consequence of Russia’s aggression in Ukraine is the progress of global disarmament. It also affects Norway. The United States and Russia established a bilateral dialogue on strategic stability last year. It may now face an uncertain time, but it is essential that the nuclear weapons states have such a dialogue, where China, too, must be involved. At a time when war is waging, and where Putin has alerted the mobilization of nuclear weapons forces, it is demanding with more committed cooperation on nuclear disarmament, but that cooperation must be strengthened, because the option is worse. Together with countries inside and outside NATO, Norway will increase efforts for nuclear disarmament. We will contribute to the search for the disastrous humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. Towards the non-proliferation regulatory conference in August, we are working with like-minded countries to ensure that the UN’s nuclear weapons States fulfil their contractual obligations. Norway continues our global leadership to follow up the UN's efforts to verify disarmament. We are taking initiatives to reduce the risk of nuclear weapons being used and that future disarmament agreements cannot be reversed. The pressure against already pressed multilateral institutions is getting stronger. It also affects Norway. A permanent member of the UN Security Council has addressed an unprovoked attack against an independent sovereign state. It is an attack on the main UN principle of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states. As a veto, Russia has a special responsibility to ensure international peace and security, but the invasion started while Russia had the presidency of the Security Council. We are all at risk when international law and established multilateral institutions are pushed aside. It is a paradox of history that parts of the international legal order were developed from experience in just Ukraine. The main architect behind the term ‘crime against humanity’, Hersch Lauterpacht, was from Lviv. He fled to England and later inspired the central provisions of the Nuremberg Court in 1946. One of the architects behind the 1948 genocide convention, Raphael Lemkin, was from the same regions. A large majority of the UN Member States are not major powers. The core of the international community is countries like us, which depend on an international legal order, on predictable frameworks, where we resolve disagreements with diplomacy, not with weapons. Kenya’s UN ambassador put this to the UN Security Council recently when he pointed out that when the African countries became independent, they chose to deal with the limits of their legacy. Had they chosen historical nostalgia – states based on ethnicity, race or religion – they would have continued to be at war. Multilateralism is on the verge of death tonight, he said. He could say that because Putin has challenged the very basis for multilateral cooperation, but multilateral solutions may as well be what will take us out of this crisis. There will come a day when President Putin will have to be responsible for his actions, where the world must be kept on the right track, and it will be cleared up in the economic, political and human destruction of his regime now responsible for. In the multilateral global community, we also have good tools for that day, if we choose to use them. This is the time to repeat the message that the UN Pact is the most important foundation on which we have to build for a peaceful and better world. In the past, the UN General Assembly has fought colonialism and apartheid. It has defended self-determination and territorial integrity. It's the most representative forum in the world where no one has a veto right. Russia abused its veto in the Security Council by preventing the adoption of a resolution condemning the attack on Ukraine, but the Council – for the first time in 40 years – succeeded in transferring the consideration of a motion for a resolution to the UN General Assembly. Norway cooperated actively with related members of the Security Council to achieve this. It made it clear to a whole world that Putin's war against Ukraine is not a matter of Russia against the West, but the Putin regime against the rest. During the vote on the Uniting for Peace resolution in the UN General Assembly on 2 March, 141 States voted in favour, only 5 voted against. Russia will try to split the UN. We must do our utmost to ensure that as many of the UN Member States as possible actively defend the UN Charter, international law and the people of Ukraine. Russia chose to withdraw from the Council of Europe before being excluded. Russia is excluded from the Baltic Sea Council. Other regional organisations of importance for Norway, such as the OSCE and the Arctic Council, are affected. The consequences are too early to judge. The war makes our globalized and interwoven world visible. The world economy is affected and Norway is affected. Russia and Ukraine are major suppliers of essential products such as steel, titanium and neon gas for microchips. Failure to do so will affect deliveries and markets around the world, including: in technology and in the automotive industry. Deliveries of fertilizers could fall dramatically. Combined with the shortage of wheat, barley and other food products exported by Ukraine and Russia, this could lead to food shortages. Russia and Ukraine alone account for approx. 30 pst. of world exports of wheat. The number of hungry and undernourished could increase by 8 to 13 million people. There's some estimates, there's a lot of people going on. Increased energy prices and falling markets could contribute to stagnation in global growth, with consequences and impacts on the private economy of ordinary people, including in Norway. We also know from experience that food and energy crises often lead to social unrest. 2030 would mark the target line for the eradication of extreme poverty in the world. Now, instead, we have a new poverty-enhancing force. Putin's brutal war in Ukraine leads to radical changes in our bilateral relationship with Russia. Especially in the northern regions, we'll notice this. The northern regions are in many ways the first line for strong and robust Norway. The North is a national issue of major strategic importance. In the north, district and security policies are very closely intertwined – without people, no security; without security, no people. The long-term consequences for our northern regions are too early to say a word of certainty, but Northern Region policy is not a single project. It's a Norwegian core interest. It affects all sectors and thus all committees here on the Stortinget, and it affects the entire government and the whole of Norway. Next year, Norway will take over the leadership of the Arctic Council. It's going to be a different leadership than we'd ever imagined. Russia is an important and major Arctic state, but cooperation with Russia in the Arctic Council has been put on hold. In Barents' cooperation, people-to-people contact suffers and affects both ordinary Russians and ordinary Norwegians. In the future, we need to think wisely about how we can set up cooperation and use our support mechanisms. It's Putin's Russia, not our Russians are targeting. What we can't do about is geography. Russia remains our neighbour and will be when the Putin regime one day is history. Common border, shared resources and common challenges in the north mean that we want well-functioning practical cooperation with Russia in the north. Without this, we can risk the cod stocks in the Barents Sea disappearing. It's not in our interest. It is not in the interests of Europe either. However, we cannot take for granted that practical cooperation in the north will last, but it will not stand on us. The war shows the dark side of Europe, but it also shows the bright side. Europe is united. NATO is united. The world's democracies are strongly united. I would like to thank the European Parliament for its constructive cooperation and inter-political cohesion in this very difficult time. The war in Ukraine must not take the focus entirely away from another and even longer-lasting crisis that we are in the midst of, namely the climate crisis. If we don't solve it, everything else will be in vain. As in all other preparedness work, whether it be pandemics or threats of war in Europe, we must be prepared. We must seek to avoid it and at the same time be prepared for the consequences. The last report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, launched less than a month ago, on 28 February, states that the need for climate change and action has never been more critical. To resolve the climate crisis – for it to be resolved – we depend on global solutions, on international cooperation, on diplomatic crafts. The Glasgow climate conference was a small step forward, but a lot of work remains to be done. Norway shall do its part. The Hurdal platform determines that climate and nature should be a framework around all policies. This also applies to Norway’s foreign policy, where climate is included in all assessments and decisions. To achieve our goals, we depend on energy and green migration. Converting fossil production and industry to zero-emission alternatives requires transitional solutions. Here Norwegian gas is central to Europe. Without Norwegian gas, the green shift is stopped in Europe, and we do not have time for that. In addition, energy security becomes a guiding principle for European foreign and security policy in the future. We will continue to supply all the gas we can, which Europe now desperately needs. Threats from the Putin regime to stop gas exports to Europe in response to EU sanctions, and the EU's ambition to become independent of Russian gas, require that we take responsibility in Norway. We also need to remember that the climate crisis can give us opportunities. We have to turn to the question, what can we win? Where can we contribute? We have a great potential. We will show how Norway can become a strategic partner for the rest of Europe, with important measures such as the use of hydrogen, sea wind, batteries and carbon capture and storage at sea. Norway is the world leader in climate technologies and solutions in these areas. Together with the industry, we need to work specifically to get Norwegian companies into international competition. The government wants to strengthen Norwegian exports as part of the green shift. That is why we are now mobilising our entire international network and strengthening the capacity of EEAS to support Norwegian companies. When climate change has risen to the top of the foreign policy agenda, it is also due to the fact that climate change itself is a safety factor. For Norway as a coast and port, it is particularly important to ensure sustainable seas and maritime environments. We have advantages that enable us to lead in this work. Through the Ocean Panel, we contribute to sharing Norwegian experiences with the world's coastal states. We are today witnessing increasing rivalry between the major powers. Democracy and human rights are under pressure, and it also affects our foreign policy. Norway's security remains anchored in our membership of NATO. At the same time, geopolitical rivalry goes beyond security policy, not least in the economic sphere. In the context of the major economic activisation, Europe and the EEA Agreement, together with the WTO, are the anchor of Norway. We see a China that acts more confidently both at home and outside. The Chinese authorities want stability. The human rights situation in the Xinjiang province remains serious, and the restrictions in Hong Kong continue. At our latitudes, we see a China that is willing to use economic and political pressure to influence other countries' foreign policy choices. China’s partnership with Russia has been strengthened, but Russia’s invasion of Ukraine faces an important choice. How China chooses to deal with Russia will affect the relationship with Europe in the long term. China will be a formidable economic and military power for many generations to come. We can criticize them, and we'll do that when it's necessary. We can disagree with them, and we're in many questions. We can cooperate with them, and so do we when we have common interests. But we have to relate to the world as it actually is, and then we have to try to push the world in the right direction in the way we can. The Hurdal Platform suggests that Norway will cooperate with China along a Nordic and European line. Our policies are based on commitment and care. We should promote our interests and take care of our values and security in a holistic way, together with our European and Nordic partners. The major global challenges of our time cannot be solved without China. Norway’s role must be to influence China to make good choices. We're doing the best we can with others. Great-power-rivalling is also taking place on the African continent. The situation is reducing the scope of action in the Security Council on the crises in Africa and increasing the need to update Norwegian African policy. China's position has grown strongly in Africa in the last decade. The US involvement in Africa has been falling for a long time, but this can now be turning around. We're going to continue to engage in Africa. Cooperation with European countries is also important here. In the United States, the tone is now different from that of the Trump administration, but the US's willingness to defy China remains strong. When a polarized congress meets across party boundaries, it is largely foreign policy. We have seen that, among other things. in the management of the Ukraine crisis, where Congress has been more united than for a long time. It is in the area of security policy that we now see the greatest degree of continuity. At the same time, there is little doubt that the future direction of the United States will affect Norway. Trade policy choices make our business. American views on climate challenges, on the UN and on poverty reduction affect what we can achieve together. In several areas, I feel that we have more room for action now than a little over a year ago. The Biden administration takes a leadership in democracy and human rights that we expect from the United States, and we need that leadership more than ever. The war in Ukraine has not interrupted other conflicts or reduced the need for our diplomacy of peace and reconciliation. The pandemic has exacerbated weak state structures in vulnerable states. We see several coup d'états, increased political polarisation and the emergence of violent jihadism, also in Europe's neighbourhoods. Our work on peace and reconciliation is not a surplus policy, it's not something we do next to core interests. Peace is a core interest. Internationally, we are seen as a reliable actor. We can go in front where others have bonds. It is a strength in our foreign policy. Our goal will always be to move parties to conflict against political solutions as an alternative to military instruments, and with limited suffering. Dialogue with rebel groups, war criminals and oppressive regimes is difficult. It's not always attractive or easy to talk to people we stand from miles, but the option is worse. The government will strengthen our peace and reconciliation efforts through targeted initiatives focusing on Europe's unstable southern neighbourhood. In vulnerable states such as Syria, Lebanon, Libya and Yemen and in Sahel, political instability, conflict and economic crisis lead to great suffering for people. The situation is creating security threats, a ground for terrorism and forcing people to flee. Norway is currently making a significant contribution to humanitarian and stabilisation efforts. This level shall be kept high. We also set up a new solidarity pot for countries with a large refugee population. We are now strengthening Yemen's efforts in peace building and dialogue, as well as actively supporting the UN-led process. We continue our commitment to the Israelis and the Palestinians. The vision of a two-state solution is under strong pressure. The government has reversed the previous government's cut in aid to the Palestinians. We have increased support for the UN's Organisation for Palestinian Refugees, UNRWA. We will be clearer in our charge of critical matters, including the international law-enforcement Israeli settlement policy and the lack of democratic legitimacy of the Palestinian leadership. We will contribute to attempts to resume negotiations. We give priority to the efforts in Syria. An unstable Syria and the absence of a political solution are a critical challenge for neighbouring countries and the international community, including us here in Europe. We need progress in working on a political solution. This is a high priority on the part of Norway, both in our commitment to the UN Security Council, in supporting the UN Syria mission and in working for a political solution that also includes women and civil society. About six billion. This year, humanitarian aid, rehabilitation and stabilisation measures are planned in Syria and neighbouring countries, primarily Lebanon and Jordan. At the same time, we continue our efforts in the anti-ISIL coalition. The war in Europe means that I have less than desirable opportunity to get to grips with the situation in many other countries in the world. However, let me mention three areas of particular concern: One year after the military coup, the situation in Myanmar is very worrying. We are concerned about the civilian population in the country. We have increased our humanitarian aid and jobs to ensure better humanitarian access. We support democratic forces, free media and civil society. The conflict in Tigray has become an epicenter of political turbulence on the Horn of Africa. The parties have long believed in military victories, but there is now a greater willingness for dialogue. Norway will do its part to contribute to such dialogue. We increased Norway's humanitarian contribution to Ethiopia last year to about 200 million. kr. Tomorrow, March 23rd, is the beginning of a new school year in Afghanistan. The Taliban promised in Oslo and has now also publicly stated that schools should be opened to girls of all ages. It'll be positive, but we don't yet know if this is something they're just saying. We'll be very careful if they keep their word. Afghanistan is experiencing drought, pandemic, economic collapse and the effects of many years of conflict. 24 million people have experienced acute food shortages. The UN estimates that famine affects half the population, and that 97 p.m. the population may fall below the poverty line. Norway has increased humanitarian aid in response to the crisis, but humanitarian assistance is not enough. We must avoid the collapse of basic services and the livelihood of Afghans. All support goes through the World Bank, the UN and non-governmental organisations. International efforts are now being made to restore the functioning of the Afghan Central Bank and the banking sector. It's a work we support. Norway took the initiative to bring together the Taliban, other Afghans and related allies in Oslo in January. The aim was to bring Afghans together for dialogue and to discuss the acute humanitarian situation. The requirements for the Taliban were clear: they need to facilitate independent and unconditional humanitarian work and an inclusive and representative board. Women must be allowed to take higher education, move freely and work in all sectors of society. Human rights must be respected. In this context, let me also mention that the evacuation from Afghanistan in connection with the Taliban's takeover, and the work that is now being done in connection with the war in Ukraine, is one of the most complicated consular work on the international service has been going on for many, many years. The EEAS is also the foreign administration’s first line abroad. The possibility of applying for — and few — visas, residence permits and protection in Norway depends on the functioning of our outdoor appliances. If we cannot operate as normal – as in Russia now – it has concrete consequences for the people involved. It's also an effect of this war. The invasion of Ukraine by Russia clearly characterises the dynamics of the UN Security Council. We have to go back to the Cold War to find a corresponding voltage. The attack on Ukraine is a threat to international peace and security. When the attacker is a permanent member of the Security Council, there is a limited room for action and it prevents the Council from exercising its mandate. However, Norway has been a driver for Russia’s warfare in Ukraine to be part of the Security Council’s agenda. We have supported a number of urgent meetings on the invasion, and we contributed to the transfer to the UN General Assembly of the resolution condemning the attack on Ukraine. Norway has nine months left as a member of the Security Council. Although the cooperation climate is deteriorating, we are not served with a locked and decommissioned Security Council. However, we need to be realistic in terms of what it is possible to achieve. We will continue to work to strengthen Norwegian values, where respect for international law and our four main priorities, as I explained to the Stortinget earlier this year, are governing. We will also focus on the two issues for which we have a special responsibility: Afghanistan and the humanitarian situation in Syria. Last Thursday, last week, the UN Security Council adopted a new mandate for the United Nations political mission in Afghanistan. It was only Russia that was retiring. Norway drew up the text of the resolution and we led the negotiations. The Security Council now gives the UN a robust mandate to, among others: working for inclusive political processes, without political recognition of the Taliban. We will work to ensure continued cross-border humanitarian aid to more than three million acids. Security Council membership remains important for Norway. There are probably no other international arenas where we are given the opportunity to express Norwegian positions and Norwegian interests in the same way and in so many areas. I started by referring to the importance of our foreign policy choices. The task of foreign policy is to make domestic policy possible, as it is called. Our foreign policy choices concern the seventh and last common people. They largely determine who we are in Norway, what we are, and what we are going to be. Since the NATO guarantee in 1949, Norway has had the opportunity to make our own choices. We have chosen a society based on freedom, openness, democratic values, international law and multilateral cooperation, and it has served us well. Society based on these values all serve well. It's more solid societies, more attractive societies, for everyone. That's why Ukraine is turning against democracy, away from Putin's authoritarian Russia. Ukraine – and any independent country – must be given the opportunity to choose for themselves. What Putin fears most of all is democracy, because democracy gives hope, it gives freedom, and it gives us faith that societies can change, not only in Ukraine and Europe, but also in the rest of the world. That is why we must continue to stand up for human rights and democratic values, for equality and women's rights, for free media and freedom of religion, for freedom of organisation and workers' rights. We're going to keep fighting for the values we believe in, and for the world we believe in, because it's people's foreign policy to the seventh and last. Europe has undergone major upheavals before, as when the wall fell in 1989. Now Europe is facing 1989, a time that redefines our understanding of reality. When Europe's history is written, it will be one before and one after February 24, 2022. I look forward to continuing good cooperation with Stortinget when we are going to highlight the course for Norwegian foreign policy in a changed landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e473	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e489	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e496	Various variants of the proposal we are discussing today have been promoted in the past, and this is no wonder. The pandemic has had a huge impact on our lives. Although we're now about to put parts of the pandemic behind us, it's too early to declare it a completed chapter. In addition, it is important that we draw lessons from the pandemic and thus get better rusted up to meet the next infectious virus or other disease. Overall, the lesson we have to draw is that a pandemic is not completed somewhere until it's shut down everywhere. On this basis, it is not difficult to understand the motivation behind the present representative proposal, which calls for measures to increase global access to vaccines, medicines, medical devices and medical technology in the fight against covid-19. We are in favour of rejecting the proposal, and I would like to explain why the majority of the committee does so. The proposers are right to point out a global distribution of vaccines and drugs against covid-19. We have also seen new mutations and outbreaks of the virus as a result of the fact that it has not been sufficiently shut down anywhere. It is important to stress that Norway has taken a leading role in the initiative to ensure a more even distribution of vaccines, since the pandemic first broke out. We have done this through both the vaccine co-operation COVAX and the international co-operation in the co-vid-19 response, The Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator, ACT-A, where Norway and South Africa are leaders. We are well aware of the proposal promoted in the WTO by India and South Africa to exempt certain provisions on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights in the TRIPS Agreement. This initiative has been central to the proposal for a representative we are now considering. The challenge of this initiative is that it is too far-reaching. It risks causing reduced research and development of medicinal products and medical devices. This can happen because the incentives for producing are gone. It's not lucky. One of the key lessons from this pandemic is how fast pharmaceutical companies were able to develop and produce effective vaccines. I would like to point out what The Economist wrote in the leadership position on 19 February 2022. Here it was convincingly argued that in the first instance, production capacity in poorer countries is preventing extensive distribution of vaccines there, not the framework for international trade. The main contribution from Norway to the fight against covid-19 globally is measures leading to increased distribution of vaccines and medical devices. In this context, I would like to stress that it was under the government of Solberg that we mobilised strongly for political and financial support through this ACT-A and the vaccine pillar COVAX. For our part, it is important that the new government maintains this work and continues the important track we started. That's exactly what we see the government doing, and so the majority has agreed to reject the proposal, but also fully acknowledges that this kind of proposal comes to debate, because a pandemic is global in definition and cannot be solved nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e509	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough statement on the matter, but would like to clarify – or perhaps reinforce – a few points. Representatives raise a very important issue, and we in the Centre Party agree that covid-19 vaccines, medicinal products and medical devices should be made available to all. It's a complicated thing, but the objectives must be crystal clear. In our government platform, the government determines that it will be involved in the fight against infectious diseases. This shall be done by ‘contributing to the financing, development and equivalence of vaccines and other health technologies not delivered by the market alone’. Norway supports the international initiative to ensure global access to and efficient distribution of covid-19 vaccines. Together with South Africa, Norway plays an active role as a co-leader to the Facilities Council in The Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator, ACT-A, to mobilise other countries to contribute their share. Norway has also fulfilled the promise to share five million vaccine doses with international vaccine cooperation, COVAX and work at the same time for several rich countries to share vaccines with developing countries. This pandemic depends on international cooperation, and we need to find good solutions multilaterally. It is very important also when we are in a situation where the pandemic has a different focus in our own country. The discussion on the TRIPS exemption has been locked for over one year. In this context, it involves finding a compromise that has the potential to achieve consensus and thus contribute to global vaccine justice. The proposal from South Africa and India is very comprehensive and, as has been said earlier here, had no opportunity to be adopted. Since the WTO discussion on a derogation from the TRIPS agreement is currently settled, the government considers that exemptions for patents on vaccines are a good starting point for reaching agreement. I think it's a wise assessment of our government. With this in mind, Norway supports international initiatives to ensure global access to and efficient distribution of covid-19 vaccines. The importance of finding good solutions multilaterally in response to the covid-19 pandemic must also be highlighted. This is done by opening up Norway's support for a limited exemption from the WTO agreement on intellectual property rights. It is also very important to find a solution to a problem that is quite challenging. The exemption should be limited to patents on vaccines and drugs against covid-19. The central party supports the government in working for a compromise, as the government has said they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e528	In a serious time, then, we need to discuss another serious matter, namely the ongoing pandemic that costs – and costs – a huge number of human lives, and that reinforces global inequality and poverty and leads to social and economic unrest. Access to vaccines, medicines, tests and other health technologies is crucial to combat this pandemic. So far the response from the world has been completely inadequate. The rich part of the world pulls up the ladder and leaves people in the poor part of the world unvaccinated, outcasted and untreated, eager to protect the ownership of pharmaceutical companies for vaccines and health technologies, which are mainly developed by public research and with funds from the community. It is harmful, it is untimely, and it places the international intellectual property law in a very poor light. The pharmaceutical companies are the big stockbrokers for the time being. They pay the price with their lives and their economic and social security. Norway could have played another role, a solidarity and progressive role in the World Trade Organisation and in the negotiations for a temporary derogation from this legislation. Norway could play an independent role outside the EU, especially in a matter where we see that the EU is the largest brake block for a functioning international system for the production and distribution of vaccines, medicines and test equipment. This is what this is all about today. With the change of government, there was a hope of a turning away from the previous government's far-reaching support for the profits of pharmaceutical companies over life and health for poor people. The new government came up with a cautious sign in this way by opening up to support a WTO trade-off for patents on vaccines, but such an exception would be a very limited part of what is needed to fight the pandemic effectively. It also expresses a very passive role. Now we have the fasit of what this strategy leads to. Recently, a draft agreement was played that is very far from the proposal for a broad exemption from the current intellectual property rights of South Africa and India, which is what is needed. But at the same time, this gives us a chance to say that we continue the negotiations, and that we do not accept the new draft agreement as a final result. This so-called compromise cannot in any way be the end point. I would therefore encourage the government to take the initiative in new negotiations. The response from the rich world has so far been inadequate. It is partly based on charity work, which does not provide the assistance needed and which also dissuades poorer countries. It has also been based on resistance to relaxation of the very demarcating international rules, which could have enabled low-income and middle-income countries to produce and distribute vaccines and medicines themselves. The production capacity of these countries exists, which has also been documented recently. Then it is argued that the proposal from South Africa and India is too far-reaching and that one of these cannot support it. For whom is it too far-reaching? Is it for the pharmaceutical companies or is it for the poor in poor countries who pay the price? It is said that incentives for the development and research of vaccines and medicines will be weakened, but incentives for the development of the vaccines in question have been sought from researchers and the community to help people, and states have their generous financial contributions and pre-agreed purchases of these vaccines. I don't see that these incentives will in any way be weakened by supporting such a proposal. The knowledge behind it is a global common good and should benefit everyone. With this option, I will deal with the suggestions made by SV and Red in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e549	The representative of Ingrid Fiskaa has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e554	Nobody's safe until everyone's safe. We've seen that quite clearly. A virus, a mutation that occurs in the United Kingdom, in India or in South Africa today, is going to show up with us tomorrow. Early in the pandemic, it was seen where the wrong vaccines were distributed. Then the scientists also warned that mutations will occur in areas with a low vaccination rate, and that is exactly what we have now seen happen. We don't live in a world where we can take care of ourselves and think that's enough. It's not just for our own safety we're going to secure vaccines. It is also about solidarity. While we are putting the third dose on our healthy young people, health workers and vulnerable groups in developing countries stand without it. While we are enjoying reopening, some African countries have barely started on vaccines. In Burundi, no one was fully vaccinated at the turn of the year, while only 0.1 pst. of the 90 million inhabitants of Congo were fully vaccinated. It's showing WHO numbers. During the pandemic, most of the doses of vaccines such as Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech have been sent to rich countries. Millions of doses promised to low- and middle-income countries have been delayed. Only 9.6 pst. of Africa's nearly 1.2 billion inhabitants are fully vaccinated at the turn of the year. It's an injustice we can't look at. Red therefore supports initiatives to produce vaccines in developing countries through technology transfer. It will also make these countries more independent and allow them to contribute to the global resilience to covid-19. We cannot sacrifice health to large parts of the earth's population to protect the profit hunters. We actually have to put human life and health ahead of profit. Today's vaccines and drugs against covid-19 have been developed in a good deal of public researchers and funding, and with public test coordination and funding. What is currently helping to counter the pandemic is a common good. The claim that an exemption from intellectual property rights in order to combat the pandemic will prevent innovation does not have a basis for how it actually works today. It costs an American pharmaceutical company averaging 1.8 billion. dollar to develop a new drug, while they serve on average over 18 billion. dollars per medicinal product. So revenue is ten times higher than development costs. In the middle of the covid pandemic, seven of the ten largest pharmaceutical companies in the United States spent more on sales and marketing than on research and development. Congress in the United States found in a report in July that the 14 largest pharmaceutical companies spent 57 billion dollars. dollars more on dividends and purchases of own shares than on research between 2016 and 2020. That is the reality. In fact, Norway, which wants to be a solidarity country, should not be able to do so in practice. The proposal from India and South Africa is limited to countering the pandemic, and I am quite sure that we have a common desire in the first place. Then we should also support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e571	I would like to thank the proposers for addressing an important topic: how we can get a fairer distribution of vaccines internationally. A fairer distribution is both the right and the wise thing to do in this situation. The inequality we're seeing is across the board unsolidated. It increases the risk of new dangerous mutations, and it prolongs the dramatic economic and social consequences of the pandemic. We in the Christian People's Party will continue to work for Norway to contribute more internationally in this matter, in the WTO, with new initiatives to improve future global health preparedness, and through investments, both inside and outside the aid budget. At the same time, it is evident that Norway took responsibility early in this crisis and has contributed a great deal. Our development work was converted to meet the pandemic, and together with South Africa, Norway undertook to lead the main international cooperation to combat covid-19 through ACT-A. We also contributed — and contribute further — with the redistribution and funding of vaccine doses. One of the other things Norway has emphasised in political work, through both ACT-A, WHO and the WTO, is to have a dialogue with other countries on the proposals that came up and also to exert pressure on the pharmaceutical industry. Norway is working to increase production capacity, secure low prices and provide more solidarity. I don't know how many times we heard, both in the hall here and elsewhere, the words "no one is safe until everyone is safe". It's not just words, it's both true and important not to forget. Even though we now experience that the pandemic is over, that is not the case. New virus variants are a threat to global health, international trade and the economy, and ultimately also a security policy threat. The right to health is a human right, and without access to vaccines and other necessary healthcare, people are deprived of the right to health. Ensuring equivalent access is essential to prevent and treat disease and to avoid adverse economic effects of the pandemic. The economic effects of covid-19 hit the poorest and most vulnerable countries hardest. In the WTO, both this and the previous government have taken on the job of working for consensus on a solution. I think that's important. A good proposal is a proposal that can push forward a consensus that can actually change the situation on the ground. That is why the Christian People's Party will vote against proposal No. 1 and for proposals Nos. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e586	Although the corona pandemic right now begins to seem a little distant to us, both because the situation in the world is like it is, and because the pandemic soon seems to be finally over in Norway, the pandemic in the whole world is in no way over. It has been said that the Korona is a magnifying glass of the differences between people. It has been in Norway, but above all it has been internationally, and most clearly we have seen it in the distribution of vaccines. Long was the main challenge that there was not enough vaccine production. Today, the problem is that we can't get the vaccines out of your people's homes. Today's government is taking international leadership responsibility for providing enough vaccines for everyone. Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, together with the President of South Africa, has taken the leadership of the ACT-A organisation. In January, together with the UN Secretary-General Guterres and the WHO Director-General, he launched a campaign to raise nearly 17 billion. dollars by June 2022. We encourage all leaders from the world's rich country to contribute. Norway gave 2 billion in December. NOK extra for this important work. Norway is also working within the WTO for a compromise that can eliminate patents on covid-19 vaccines. It was early signaled by the new government after we won the election in September. Why is compromise important? Would it not have been better if Norway could be the country that went the farthest? The truth is, we don't get anything without agreement. That's why it's most radical to go in for a compromise, because that's when we can make changes for people. Being clean and ranked in this case solves nothing. What solves something is to mobilise other countries to work for consensus. If you're going to get something, it's a compromise that needs to be made. There have been signs that it may be possible to get something, so I want the government to be happy with the important work to get enough vaccines for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e597	Covid-19 vaccines, medicinal products and medical devices should be made available to all, including low-income and middle-income countries. On that point, I agree with the representatives. Now the main focus is on the war in Ukraine, but we must not forget that the covid-19 pandemic is the worst health crisis in our lifetime, with serious social and economic consequences. It has also shown how vulnerable countries are to global health crises, and international cooperation is crucial for managing them. The government was quick to adjust Norway’s position on this issue after the government change, and Norway supports a derogation from the TRIPS agreement for patents on covid-19 vaccines. So to the question whether we should go in for a compromise or not. For me, solidarity is about getting something through. So there will be no decision in the WTO without unanimity, that is to say, a compromise. The promotion of a primary position and the sinking of the flag to the top do not seem to help progress on this issue, because WTO decisions require unanimity, and the debates in Geneva in the last year show that the broad proposal cannot achieve consensus. It concerns both the product scope, duration and provisions of the TRIPS Agreement. Patents on vaccines and drugs against covid-19 are central to the debate, and we have to work on what is the starting point, what is the reality, what is the world as it actually is. Norway will listen to all the arguments for bringing us forward in the negotiations, and we will participate in further negotiations with a pragmatic attitude to get a quick clarification. The debate so far has been too polarized, and then there will be no change. This is Norway's position. Norway also has leadership in international cooperation for covid-19 vaccines, together with South Africa, and we have contributed 6.5 billion. SEK to ACT-A and 2 billion. NOK 2022. In addition, Norway shares vaccine doses through the vaccine co-operative COVAX. COVAX has delivered 1.4 billion vaccine doses so far, and they plan to deliver an additional 900 million doses during the first half of 2022. COVAX has also delivered 80 pst. of vaccine doses in low-income countries. At the same time, I share the assessment that vaccine access is very different. The biggest challenge in 2020 is now the roll-out device at land level. Production capacity is no longer the main obstacle to equivalent access to covid-19 vaccines.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e618	What is needed to achieve a compromise, and what is needed to achieve a good compromise that can actually work in the fight against the covid pandemic? As I see it, there's no contradiction between flagging a primary position and accepting something that's better than nothing. Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs disagreed with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e623	Yes, I'm probably in disagreement with what is SV's approach to this matter, that the most important thing is to flag its position. Norway has a very strong position in the WTO. We are outside the EU, we have the opportunity to build bridges, we have a very good relationship with many of the other countries, and we have a very good relationship with South Africa. I believe that what can bring the work forward in this matter and prevent the situation from being settled is precisely a country such as Norway, which contributes to compromise. If it is not a compromise, there will be no solution. Compromise is not an expression that one is cowardly in any way. A compromise is the very basis for making changes. I believe that SV's position had not brought us any closer – rather further from – a result in this matter. Norway takes a leadership responsibility because we are being listened to from several, and our relationship with very many of the least developed countries has given us this leadership position.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e630	I notice that the Foreign Minister believes that there is a contradiction between flagging a primary position and taking a position on a matter, and agreeing to support under what might become a result that then stands a little away from the primary position. SV disagrees in such an approach and thinks that there is no contradiction between saying the meaning and being able to make a compromise at a later stage. Give the situation we're currently in, with a draft agreement that's not what's needed to be able to fight down the pandemic effectively, because that, among other things. not providing access to technologies for medical and test equipment, will Norway take a more active role in the further discussion and initiate or further support negotiations on this as a starting point?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e637	Yes, Norway takes a very great responsibility, but now a lot of the negotiations have been transferred to a group where the disagreements are greatest, namely India, South Africa, the EU and the United States. We can't jump into this group, but from the outside we can say very clearly and impatiently that we want a quick solution, because that's what has been the problem in this case. The problem has not been a lack of launched primary positions. The problem has been, as it is very often in the World Trade Organisation, willingness to compromise in order to achieve results. It is my basic foreign policy approach that the most important thing is to get results. In this area, it's taken too much time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e642	It doesn't look like we're going to be able to figure out what can lead the world forward, and taking a position and flagging a position can play a role in it. For me, it's not the same thing as possibly accepting a compromise that's there. My next question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will then be: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that what is now on the table, the draft agreement that is not yet agreed in the WTO, is sufficient to bring down the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e649	The answer to that is no. What the international community has contributed to is not enough in any way, but we have contributed as far as we can from the Norwegian side. Norway has contributed far-reaching funding, and we have taken a leading role with very many poor countries. We are among those who contribute, but the international community has not proved sufficient to meet this pandemic. We've seen the result of that. The pandemic is still very active on many of the poorest continents, where the degree of vaccination is also low. It is primarily the roll-out capacity that is the main problem now, but I have little faith in getting on one side of international organisations and saying ‘take it or leave it’. It doesn't serve anyone, especially the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e656	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e663	I followed the discussion from the office and thought that this is a debate I have to take the floor, because I think that a government must give credit to be creative in explaining why it has not raised its primary position. I think back very well when Gro Harlem Brundtland hit the United States in particular, but of course also Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the major pharmaceutical producer countries, who wanted to block the roll-out or patent waiver in the face of major diseases that spread all over the world – HIV, AIDS, etc. There was never any doubt that Norway was willing to extend to compromise when it came to the problem. What is historically new in this matter are two things: firstly, the United States has suddenly opened up a restricted access to patent exemptions. It's very interesting from a country that has a large pharmaceutical industry. Very many of these vaccines, medicines and test equipment, etc. has its producers in the United States. The other new thing is that Norway has gone away from a long line in Norwegian policy that is about entering patent exemptions for a limited time, let's say 5 years, to manage and help the world get through a pandemic, in this case. That's the new thing. Just to take an example: Baricitinib, which is a medicine that allows one to get a much better development of the disease in 14 days, costs 7 US dollars if one produces it locally, in this case in India. If one were to do this through the patent holder, it would cost over US$1,000. It's the difference that creates problems. For me, this is an incomprehensible Norwegian position, because if the point here is to get through a pandemic, the goal must be to get both medicines, vaccines and test equipment out as quickly as possible, and there is local production capacity that can make this possible. This means that not some countries are excluded from agreements, because patent rights last for decades, etc. So the government chooses to go straight at its original primary position, and it's a limited patent exemption scheme that only applies to vaccines and not all the other things that are needed to solve the problem. I have to say that after this round of questions I do not know what the Norwegian interests are in this question. Is there anyone who can explain that to me? Can the Council of State come up and honestly explain what is actually Norway's interest in this matter? It's incomprehensible to me why one has broken a line from Brundtland to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e678	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Vooting reference
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e696	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e703	I refer you to the representative proposal by Silje Hemdal, Terje Halleland Himanshu Gulati and Roy Steffensen for the acquisition of F-16 by the Flyhistorical Museum Sola. The representatives shall make the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that defence equipment engages in dialogue with the Air History Museum Sola for the purpose of acquiring the aircraft type F-16 for its exhibition.’ The museum at the Sola was started in 1983 by a group of local enthusiasts that we see in and of themselves all over the country when it comes to keeping the story we have around our planes. The museum was allowed to use the old German hangar at the Sun Sea, and the collection has gradually been built up. This hangar is also used by the aviation line at the Sola high school, which is a very good combination in terms of this type of work. The Air History Museum Sola currently has a comprehensive collection of 56 aircraft, of which nearly 40 are displayed and located in this protective hangar at the Sea of Sola. Air History Museum Sola is the only museum in the country that has a collection that includes all jet fighters Air Defense has operated until the introduction of F-16. It's very impressive in itself. There will be some planes that are not interesting for buyers as operational fighter aircraft. It is important to clarify that F-16 is still, to the most extent, an operational fighter aircraft. Those who are not sold assess the use of the defence sector. Two aircraft have already been planned for the Museums of Defence, where one will be exhibited at the Gardermoen Aviation Collection and one at the Norwegian Aviation Museum in Bodø. It is important for the Committee to draw attention to the fact that there will be some machinery that is not sold and that can be used, for example, for training and museum purposes, as I have said. The Committee is also of the opinion that the Air History Museum Sola is one of several good intermediaries in our aviation history. At the same time, the Committee also draws attention to the fact that more are interested in these aeroplanes. As mentioned earlier, there are many stakeholders and defence equipment is still in the process of disposing of the F-16 system, and they identify the ongoing sales potential of each aeroplane. A comprehensive assessment of all applications must be carried out before they can be answered. Finally, I just want to repeat that the Museum at the Flyhistorical Museum Sola is a good intermediary of our flight history. Although the majority of the vote says that the proposal should not be adopted, the Museum of the Sun is, of course, a current party that may later become applicable to F-16 aircraft, I would assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e729	The Air Force has a proud history and a strong tradition to take care of its history and communicate it in a good way. Now it's F-16 that's about to go into the history of the Norwegian Air Force, just as Thunderjet, Freedom Fighter and Starfighter in the past have gone into history. In these days, when we remember the significance of the transatlantic bond and NATO membership, you could mention as a poem that Starfighter received as part of the U.S. arms aid in 1963. F-16 has actually been in service over many years in a remarkable way. Here is a lot to learn from the upgrade programs and the good maintenance with which the Air Force takes care of its materials. F-16, as Constanterune said, is not out of date; there are other nations that want to buy this plane. But finally, for Norway's part: Romania wants to buy 44 of these planes, it's well said, and the Dragon International wants to buy 12. It is known from previous sales of military equipment that there is a need to sell some additional equipment that can be used as part equipment to the military capacities to enter into operational operations. Here we're really at the heart of this question. There may be a need to sell some additional aeroplanes so that those purchasing aeroplanes to enter operational service have access to aeroplanes that can be used for shared purposes. Therefore, it is a little early to conclude at this stage whether you have aeroplanes left over that can be used for museum purposes, in addition to the two aeroplanes that have been taken care of by the Museum of Flight in Bodø and the Museum of Flight in Gardermoen. On the right hand side and, to the extent that the majority of the committee supports the government's recommendation on this issue. It's a little too early at this point to see if you have more planes to use for museum purposes. It is not on the will to see if this can be done, but you have to see what you have to do when you have landed the commercial contracts for sale to the two contract partners that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e740	This is an important matter in a historical perspective. It's an important matter for aviation history, and it's an important matter for the history of Air Force. At the Flyhistorisk Museum Sola, there are today over 30 outsourced aircraft. The museum has both German and Norwegian aircraft that were used during World War II. In addition, they have models of all the jet fighters, as was said from the pulpit earlier today, that the Norwegian Air Force has previously operated, except that they lack F-16, which was taken out of service in 2021. Bodø and Oslo have each been assigned their F-16 aircraft, and we in the Progress Party wonder that first the government and now the majority of the Foreign and Defence Committee will not take their stand and let the Flyhistorical Museum Sola take over one of the F-16 planes. We believe it is also particularly true that the parliamentary Vice-President of the Centre Party, Geir Pollestad, to Stavanger Aftenblad, has been very clear that this must be resolved. If you mean anything by what you say, it should be a simple matter to support this proposal for a representative and to ask the government to ensure that defence equipment is in dialogue with the Air History Museum Sola for the purpose of acquiring the aircraft type F-16 for its exhibition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e751	The disposal of the F-16 system is the largest disposal project in the defence sector of its kind, with significant revenues for the Defence. The project has been in progress for over two years, and it is now approaching the conclusion of a contract for the sale of most of the aircraft. Among other things, in December the Romanian Parliament endorsed the acquisition of 32 Norwegian F-16 fighter aircraft. It is very good that Romania, as a NATO ally with its geographical location east of Europe, can benefit from the F-16 flights for years to come. Then there will also be some planes that are not interesting for buyers as operational fighter aircraft. These assess the use of the defence sector. We have received applications from various actors who want to take over aircraft for example for museum and educational purposes. Two aircraft have already been planned for the Museums of Defence, one of which will be exhibited at the Gardermoen Aviation Collection and one at the Norwegian Aviation Museum in Bodø. So it's not Bodø and Oslo getting these planes, it's Defense Museums. That's why decisions have been made on these two. I am of the opinion that the Air History Museum Sola is a very good intermediary of our flight history and will undoubtedly be a strong candidate to take over one of the planes. However, as mentioned, there are many stakeholders for these planes, and I believe that an overall assessment of all applications must be made before any conclusion can be reached. I therefore do not see it as appropriate for a decision to be taken on the allocation of one aircraft to the Air History Museum Sola. So that does not mean, as I have said, that the Flyhistorisk Museum Sola is not a very good and up-to-date candidate, but that it should be assessed in an overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e760	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e777	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e784	Thank you to the Committee on Legal Cooperation on this matter. Red’s proposal for additional negotiations for agriculture has been promoted in response to very high fertiliser prices, together with higher prices of energy and other raw materials, which can make it unprofitable for Norwegian farmers to sow grain in the spring of 2002. Food grain requires more fertiliser than feed grain, and in a production where margins are already small, higher fertiliser prices can take away profitability and make farmers produce crops with less economic risk. This decision must be made by the grain farmers before spring, and the spring sons come now. Therefore, the intention of this proposal, and in similar proposals that have been made earlier this year, was that additional negotiations for agriculture should be carried out in time for farmers to be given security for their economic situation in spring. After this proposal was promoted, the disaster came in Ukraine. It reinforces all the factors underlying the proposal and reinforces the international perspective. Russia and Ukraine are responsible for 25 pst. of the world's cereal production. If much of this food grain disappears from the market, it can have major international consequences. Lower offers and rising prices will affect poor countries. The UN now warns against global food security. It could mean famine and conflict. Norway is rich. What we don't grow ourselves, we can act on the world market in the short term, but it will compete with countries with less ability to pay and greater needs. So how much grain we produce ourselves means something to our own long-term security in a more uncertain world. Providing Norwegian farmers with certainty that they can sow grain in the spring of 2022 is therefore a long-term safety policy. The majority in the Committee do not support the Red's proposals and do not intend to adopt them. The government has given verbal promises that the agricultural settlement that comes will take care of cereal production, but leaves to farmers themselves the chance of the promises being kept. The Greens and the Greens therefore propose that the government immediately submit a case in Stortinget which provides Norwegian cereal farmers with the necessary confirmation of the profitability of cereal production before the seed goes into the soil this spring. With this, I wish everyone a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e799	Then the President understands it so that the representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e804	The war in Ukraine puts us in a new situation. We have to think more about food security. Ukraine and Russia are among the world’s largest exporters of cereals and important raw materials from Russia. This is a mess. Yara says the war in Ukraine is challenging the entire food system of the world. In addition to higher fertiliser prices, increased electricity prices also require solutions for agriculture. We need to maintain and strengthen Norwegian food production. Food safety in Norway is not bad. If we calculate what we export from seafood every day, we can cover almost 90 pst. of the needs of the North. In many areas, we produce about what we need, like meat and dairy products. We should produce more of grain, fruit and green, but we are awarded Norwegian soil and Norwegian weather conditions. This year the Common Purchase estimates that 72 pst. the consumption of cereals in Norway may be covered by Norwegian-produced cereals. But grain production is variable, and therefore it is also very important that we are prepared in poor years, even when things go well. Cereals are a basic product and failure of cereal imports will have consequences for Norwegian consumers. The Progress Party has promoted a proposal for a representative to strengthen food security in Norway through increased cereal production as a result of the war in Ukraine. This is now under discussion in the Business Committee, and we hope that the proposals will be accepted. Here we propose an increase in the cereal price to the farmers, compensation for fertiliser and energy prices and a risk-relief scheme. The high electricity prices are also a challenge for many farmers. The Progress Party made previous proposals for a power support scheme to introduce a maximum electricity price of 50 ør per kilowatt hour for all. This would have compensated agriculture better than the current agricultural electricity support system. We believe that the measures proposed by the Progress Party will strengthen food security and believe that there is no need for further negotiations now just before the normal agricultural settlement. That is why we do not support Mrs Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e819	We're in an extraordinary situation that can last much longer than we hope. This is a situation that puts pressure on all parts of Norwegian society. Especially vulnerable in the current situation is Norwegian agriculture, where almost all of the inputs have experienced a very high price. This was a development we saw long before the war in Ukraine was a fact, but that has accelerated since then. SV's mantra in ours is: no pawn to lose, no production to lose. Now spring has already begun for some gardeners, and springtimes are just around the corner for the all, most of them. So it's a critical phase we're now in. As we treated the power support package a little earlier this semester, we became a few with the government party that the government should follow the situation in Norwegian agriculture carefully, and one should come back with measures if necessary to ensure production and ensure that farmers do not leave the profession or reduce their production as a result of the crisis we are in. For SV's part, it was central that we could then drop our fertiliser proposal. We also expected the government to follow the situation carefully and not least to be active if something turned out to be wrong. Today we find that many of the guarantees were not found to be good enough. That's why my starting point in this discussion is to follow carefully what comes from the government, because our loyalty is obviously on the food security side. It would be disastrous if we went through this spring with reduced production. It will have long-term negative consequences for Norwegian food security at a time when just food security is fundamental to the security of our kingdom. The reason we don't want to go into further negotiations – that was a requirement we raised already in January – is that we see that the negotiations themselves, the main negotiations themselves in the main agreement between agriculture and the state, are just around the corner. So time has been running out of us in many ways for further negotiations, but that doesn't mean there's no great responsibility on the government. With interest I will follow the post further.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e830	Norway and Europe are in a serious security policy situation. Norway, the West, the democracies, yes, the NATO countries in the world face the aggression of the former Communist country Russia. Part of that picture is food safety, where we now see how incredibly important it is that the Norwegian population can have security for its own food production. This is why agriculture and agriculture have become so important in Norway. What is it like then to ensure Norwegian food production, after the Right Party and the Advance Party have stopped all attempts for eight years, among others. putting in place emergency storage? Well, there's a lot of grips that now have to be taken to make sure. What is needed is a practical approach, and the government agency is now working day and night to find good solutions. So what is Red's answer? The red answer is to start additional negotiations for agriculture. It is 14 days for the basic material which forms the basis for the normal agricultural operation to be provided. Then the process is in progress, and bureaucrats and professionals are going to spend thousands of hours calculating. Red's answer is to duplicate the process so this should be done twice, almost simultaneously. We can't run a country like that. We need to face this situation with a better and more practical policy than these desktop exercises, so I would encourage Red to draw up the proposal and rather take a reorientation on its own security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e841	The agricultural situation is demanding. Many farmers are now in an uncertain everyday situation, and in the situation we are now facing, Norwegian food production is more important than in the long run, not least in the light of the war that we are now witnessing in Ukraine. Norway needs to make the best use of its resources to ensure good and safe access to food for its own population. Since the first agricultural settlement under the government of Solberg in 2014, the average annual income for agriculture has increased by over DKr 118 000, which is DKr 16 000 more per year than for employees in the same period. The income gap between agriculture and other groups was reduced during the Solberg administration, not least thanks to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Olaug Bollestad. As regards the question of compensation for increased agricultural costs, we also need to see this in the context of other businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which also have electricity costs as a high share of costs. Although agriculture now has increased costs, which also threatens their liquidity, there are also numerous examples around Norway of farms where a high proportion of costs are linked to energy and power prices. There are many companies that face exceptionally high electricity costs, but also other unforeseen costs and inputs put many enterprises at risk. Power support is important for several parts of Norwegian business, and it surprises us in the Right that no more parties see the need to already provide a power support scheme for all small and medium-sized enterprises. In the current situation, with war in Ukraine, high food prices are something that will not only hit us, it will particularly hit poor countries hard, which can once again trigger further conflicts. For every kilo of cereals Norway does not produce itself, more needs to be done from the outside, which will, in particular, drive global cereal prices further up this year. I note that the Council of State has informed Stortinget that the government will give priority to the ordinary agricultural negotiations in order to find solutions to the extraordinary increase in the cost of agricultural inputs. The right, like all other parties, is now awaiting the demands of the peasants for the settlement of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e854	The situation in agriculture is serious and has changed dramatically in recent years. The policy pursued has suggested that Norway should have fewer and larger holdings. The situation of small and medium-sized applications has become more difficult, and we see large holdings with large capital costs, which may be difficult to bear. This situation does not arise by itself. There has been a policy that has not taken care of the small and medium-sized applications — the use in districts, those that can increase the level of self-sufficiency. The price of agricultural inputs such as electricity and fertilisers has increased exceptionally recently, which in turn has led to problems for many farmers. The warlords we are now seeing in Europe have also shed new light on Norwegian preparedness and food preparedness. Ensuring the best possible food for your own population is wise, not only when there is a crisis. It's about the precautionary principle. The government has already met the situation and delivered it. We have provided temporary compensation of 754 million. kr, as a result of the additional negotiations in the autumn of 2021. An investment package of 200 million was also provided. kr, which goes directly to small and medium-sized applications. In the final protocol, we can read that the parties agree that further compensation for the cost increases will be part of the agricultural settlement on the steps, and the Minister has indicated that it will be paid in the current year. The Hurdal Platform provides a framework for the development of agricultural policy in the years to come. The Hurdal platform is important and sets an ambition and a goal. More should be able to live by producing food for the population of the country. More should be able to go shopping at the Norwegian-produced goods store, and we need to increase self-sufficiency. Several will be able to make the best possible use of the resources available to us in Norway and contribute to the production of food. I am pleased that this very year the Central Party has the Minister of Agriculture, and I feel confident that, after the agricultural negotiations this year, there will be greater optimism in agriculture. More will see a change in policy, and more will be able to live by producing food in Norway. The negotiations are very soon to begin, and on behalf of the Central Party's industry, I look forward to the important work we have in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e871	Last week, 3.5 billion was granted in this room. NOK to the Defence – not a penny for food. It's war in Europe's grain chamber. In the serious situation in which we're all in, it seems that at home we're at risk of reduced food production this year. The measures taken by the government have been too small and have been too late. This proposal has its origin long before we were in the serious situation of war in the grain chamber. A group of county leaders in Norwegian Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams asked the parties in Stortinget to take the initiative to pull the emergency brake or press the large red button – as the case may be – and use point 2.4 of the agricultural agreement and open further negotiations in agriculture. The situation is that the calculations show that we have a lag in a place between 2 and 3 billion. kr after last year's agricultural settlement. The government came with 754 million. NOK in a package of measures, and a power pack of 500 million was provided. kr for which it is intended. But it does not help the Norwegian farmer, and the current package that came does not help the farmer in the Nord-Trøndelag either. It is not the electricity costs that have made it difficult for farmers in the parts of the country where the electricity price has not been the theme, and very many people have reacted that way. Now that we're maintaining the proposal to open agricultural negotiations, it's because it has a principle character. Now we see that the opportunity to use the agricultural agreement, to put the farmer in the driver's seat and to authorize the industry to meet the government will not be put into practice. No, it's better to see that the parties on the Stortinget are going to sit on the bucket and negotiate individual packages, but where is it from the fertilizer compensation scheme, which has exploded in price, and where was it from the different measures that we're going to have? We can't sit and negotiate in bulk on the Storting on these important things. What is normal is to clear up a deficit from previous years, and then proceed to new negotiations. That is why I would like to address the proposal that was originally put forward to launch further negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e882	The representative Geir Jørgensen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e888	There is a broad common recognition in this room that the agricultural situation is now serious, and he has become more serious nearly weekly, even after this representative proposal was presented. We are in a situation where the price of agricultural inputs is increasing rapidly and strongly, while at the same time we have under the seal what the Foreign Minister from this Presidency earlier today probably rightly called a humanitarian crisis, of a kind we have not seen in our lifetime in our continent, one of us, and where part of the humanitarian crisis could also be food shortages regionally in Europe and globally. It is a dramatic situation, where Norway – once again – is in a lucky position, in the sense that we are relatively self-sufficient in the short term, but should we in the long term be able to do our job as responsible politicians to ensure the population and our contribution to the world's food supply, it is now more important to give priority to the conditions for food production than anything else. What we mean in the Left is a common political responsibility, which not only belongs to its government, but which is a responsibility it is actually important that the whole Storting is with and behind. For this reason, the Left has today a proposal, together with the Greens' Environment Party, to ask the Government as soon as possible to submit a case to the Stortinget which provides Norwegian cereal farmers with the necessary clarifications on the profitability of cereal production before the seed goes into the soil. I record that the Council of State has given an oral signal about this in the media. I also record that many people in agriculture are not considered safe and responsible enough. It's a good idea to understand. I think this is an open, stretched hand from the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens to the government too, saying that here we are actually more people who want to be with and guarantee agriculture – that there is actually a broad majority on the Storting that wants to take a joint responsibility to provide the guarantees necessary to ensure that enough Norwegian food grain is sown in 2022. We may also have to look at the corresponding common promise from the Storting when it comes to fertilizers, where we know that it is a correspondingly required production, and also for other agricultural production – such as grass production – as well as food grain production. But anyway, this proposal is an open invitation, and I had actually hoped and believed that it could have multiple numbers today, also among those parties that go high on the track in radio debates and in other ways and talk about sucking agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e903	The Christian People's Party has respect for the negotiating institute and the negotiations that are about to take place. We all need food, the food crisis in the world creates dissatisfaction and not least more people on the run. Food crisis doesn't need anyone right where we are right now. The situation is that they with the least money pay the most for food, and the differences in the world just increase. This means that Norway must use its land properly, protect its own land and actually use resources for its own food production. Norway has to use its resources, and that means that now in springtime one has to fertilise where one can fertilise, so that one actually gets both grain production and grass production — so that we can have something to give to our animals, and that one gets an increased meat production — and not least take care of what is about chicken and eggs. That's why I think using our resources properly is important. The farmers then need a guarantee, a guarantee when the electricity price rises, when the fuel price rises and the fertiliser price rises. They need security to bet now, because the spring is not May 15, spring is now – whether we are to harvest for the harvest. That's why the Christian People's Party has been concerned that we have to give some guarantees. In addition, we have a proposal that is that one has a ceiling on the power support of 20,000 kWh. If you run several productions, 20 000 kWh is not enough. That's why the Christian People's Party believes that that roof needs to be removed to ensure that an increase in production both on earth and in houses – where one has the productions and goods that the population needs. With this I address the two loose proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e914	Then the representative Olug Vervik Bollestad has taken up the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e919	The representatives of the Red Party have proposed that the Government should apply § 2-4 of the main agreement for agriculture and start further negotiations with agriculture immediately. I would like to remind you that additional negotiations were carried out with agriculture in the autumn of 2021. The background was the extraordinary increase in the cost of building materials and fertilisers. The State and the agricultural organisations agreed on an additional allocation of 754 million. kr. These funds were paid out on 16 February, together with the agricultural production grant, and a total of 11.5 billion was paid. kr in grants to Norwegian farmers. I would also like to remind you that about two thirds of the farmer's income is collected in the market. It is in 2022, among others. provided for increases in meat prices, which may give rise to significant increases in industry revenue. Tine will also pay $1.4 billion. kr, which is a subsequent payment for milk deliveries in 2021, which on average involves a payment of more than DKK 200000 per dairy farmer. The government has also granted 200 million in 2022. additional investment aid to be granted to small and medium-sized dairy farms and the farmers, as the only group of traders, have been subject to the electricity support scheme. The high international prices of energy have led to large price increases and increased costs in many markets. The war in Ukraine has reinforced the uncertainty surrounding the development of the world economy and the global food market. In this situation, it is important that all countries produce as much food as possible, including Norway. Uncertainty has been recorded among some farmers as to what to do with this spring spring, but I can promise Norwegian farmers that this year's agricultural settlement will contribute to financial security for the production of grain. The state will, among other things, propose an increase in the target price for cereals, which, together with increased subsidies, will compensate for the additional growth in fertiliser prices. This contributes to increased profitability for cereal producers and strengthens national self-sufficiency. In order to ensure the best possible knowledge of the overall situation, I have met with a number of actors. I would like to remind you that since New Year's, the agricultural budget item has been working too hard to provide a basic material for this year's agricultural settlement, where negotiations are now starting in just a few weeks. I have a great deal of understanding that Norwegian agriculture has for several years felt a great economic uncertainty. The government has said that we should turn the course of Norwegian agricultural policy. We are doing that, and it is one of my most important priority tasks as Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e936	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e941	The Minister of Agriculture asks us to trust her when she says that she should both compensate for increased costs in the sector and ensure profitability in the production of cereals in the agricultural sector. Promises and promises are not a new exercise from Borch and the Center Party, so my question is really just: is there any special reason why we should rely more on Borch and the Center Party now than when she promised permanently lower VAT for travel life, lower fuel charges, that Norway should leave the Acer, the maintenance of the base on Andeya, that there should be a separate independent college at Nesna, that the air passenger fee should be removed, that air prices should be halved, and that there should be free ferry and quick boat?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e946	There is no doubt that Norwegian agriculture is in an extremely difficult economic situation, which I believe the representative of the Progress Party should also take more seriously. The government is taking it seriously. We have even said that even if we negotiate for 2023 in the agricultural settlement of the year, we are prepared to pay the additional costs in 2022. We are going to turn the course of Norwegian agricultural policy and clean up the policy ahead of the Progress Party, which has almost ruined Norwegian agriculture, not least the smaller ones. Then I would also like to point out that I have noticed that the Progress Party in its alternative budget did not have further negotiations within its budget, and also had proposals to put down the whole negotiating institute for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e953	There are quite strong words in the main hall when it is said that a party almost razed Norwegian agriculture as we had power and authority. I don't think that's the situation of most farmers. As one has also been involved in previous contributions today, the income growth of Norwegian farmers was over the period it was for other employees. But to follow up my first question, does the Minister of Agriculture and Food have the impression that farmers say that the guarantee she issues orally is not enough for them to actually get the seed in the soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e958	It makes sense to travel around and meet Norwegian food producers, who have felt a great economic uncertainty over many years. Now I have brought that guarantee to the food grain. I hope that it contributes to more people wanting to sow food grain in the coming season. I would like to remind you that this year's agricultural settlement is going to be incredibly important. It is a reality that agriculture has not negotiated with the state in the last two years, for known reasons. There is no doubt that we have a lot to discuss about agricultural policy, but that is also about costs, so I believe that this year's agricultural settlement is going to be important, and my guarantee of profitability on cereals is still on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e965	We had a power support round before the war – I feel it's been forever since. Then the situation was quite different from what he is now. Of course, there has become much worse internationally, in Europe and Ukraine, but also for Norwegian agriculture. In the Stortinget comments, the Stortinget laid a special responsibility on the government for ‘if necessary’ measures so that one does not ‘weaken the ability of agriculture to acquire the necessary inputs during the growing season’. Now we're just standing right in front of the spring. Some things are already going on. In any case, we are told that farmers cannot afford to obtain them, among other things. fertilisers. Does the government prepare any measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e970	The Government and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food prepare actions in the job that is now being started in the agricultural negotiations. The guarantee given on food grain has been a signal that it should be profitable to sow food grain in the future. With the job that the budget topic is doing now – they will be presenting their work in just a few weeks – we will get an overview of the increased costs and what the actual real figure is. We need to take action in the short term, but also in the longer term, when we see the situation in the world picture, so that we have enough access to key inputs for Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e976	When it comes to the long run, I believe and hope that the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government are on the same page: we're going to build agriculture up to a completely different level than what we've seen in recent years. But it's especially about spring now. We may be in danger of losing farmers, losing production during the spring. That's why SV, when we went into the power support negotiations, pointed out that there are many other things that drive up the costs in agriculture, many other things that can make people go out of business well – the critical thing in a situation where we lose farmers and lose production. This is precisely why action is so crucial. I see the grain guarantee as a measure that promises wages in the production of cereals. It's an important promise to come with us. But on fertilizers, which are even closer, what happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e981	It is quite right, as the representative is concerned, that there has been a great uncertainty among Norwegian food producers and Norwegian farmers, but I would like to remind you of the promise I have made regarding the time of payment. We are negotiating an agricultural agreement for 2023, but we have already gone out and said that we want to make extra payments on the cost picture already in 2022. Very familiar has not been done before, so it's an important signal that what we're looking at now is going to be covered, and it's going to be covered in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e986	The power support package does not help the Norwegian farmer at all – let's just make it clear. What we are now seeing is that the costs of all agricultural inputs are increasing across the country, because of the high electricity prices and the high gas prices. Then it has a domino effect. In my home country, Nordland, we were in 2021 at the Norway stop for abandoned uses – this is meat production, and this is milk production, but it is being replaced in other parts of the country. Of course, there is more to the south in the country the production takes up again – on areas that could have just been used to grow food grain. So it's a domino effect, and so the whole country is affected. Then the question to the Council of State is, Will there not be or will there not be a compensation scheme for fertilizers before the agricultural settlement is started?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e993	Like the representative, I am also concerned that we should have agriculture throughout the country. I would therefore also like to be very careful about undermining the electricity support system that has been provided, which is of great importance to a number of farms, especially in the eastern and southern regions of the country. So I'd like to say that now we're facing an agricultural settlement. We are a few weeks away from starting the negotiations, the agricultural settlement. This is one of the important things to be discussed in the agricultural settlement. What I have provided with guarantees about food grain is important, but it is also the element that we should now also have a run for the extra costs. Although we negotiate for 2023, I am prepared to pay the extra costs in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1000	No, I'm not trying here to undermine the power support system, it's important enough, but we do have expectations that a particular party that calls itself a district party, the Center Party, will come up with arrangements that are just as good in the whole country. The power support system is not that. I did not get an answer to my question, so I just want to repeat it: Is it coming or is there not going to be a compensation scheme for the increased fertiliser prices before the agricultural settlement is to be completed, May 15th? It is, as the Council of State must know, something late to get started with it. So the question is, is there going to be or isn't there going to be an extra support scheme for fertilizer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1007	I feel that I answered the question in my main post. We have said that we should increase the target price for cereals, which, together with the increased subsidies, will compensate for the extra growth in fertiliser prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1012	Trust us, says the Minister of Agriculture, and I am pleased about that. She has self-confidence on her own and government's behalf, but at the same time we know that there will be tough priorities in the future. I was at a debate meeting yesterday when the agrarian political spokesman for the largest government party, the Labour Party, was very clear that the priorities are going to be tough ahead. There is less room for action in the state budget than in 10–15 years, and he also stressed that interest rate and inflation are the most dangerous of all for farmers, and tried to dampen expectations about what is possible. It's probably true that the space for action is now extremely narrow, it's going to be tough priorities. In the middle of this, I think it's quite strange when the government actually receives an invitation from the Left and the Environment Party, the Greens, saying that we want – from the Stortinget's side – to put ourselves behind and give a broader, clearer guarantee to the farmers in the demanding situation they are now in, so that they can plant food grain safely. [[The President clubs.]] Why can't the government be involved in getting backing for that state council no matter what it says it will provide a guarantee for?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1019	The representatives must show respect for both the speaking time and the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1024	You may not have to be a rocket scientist to realize that the space for action is what it is, but food production is important, and we've seen that lately. For the Center Party, increased food production has been important for very, very many years, even now, and we also have to think about the long-term picture in the future to increase food production. I want to reassure the representative from the Left that he will have the opportunity to back up the agricultural policy of the new government, even when we are going to deal with the agricultural settlement in the Stortinget. There will be an incredibly important settlement, incredibly important negotiations, as agriculture has not been in real negotiations with the state in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1031	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1038	We don't need less grain production, we need more. We don't need fewer farmers, we need more. As early as January, the Green Party proposed additional negotiations in agriculture in order to avoid uncertainty about the spring and cereal production of the year, so the government has had plenty of time to put that instrument into practice if you wanted it. That is why we are with the Left on a proposal for a guarantee that the farmers will be absolutely sure that they dare to bet. For the time being, Kjersti Hoff has commented on the government's promises in Norwegian Farmers' and Small Farmers' Teams: ‘This round of wording does not assist in the bank’s request for a loan or deferral of payment in the event of the purchase of fertilisers.’ Then we're going to hope that she feels safer now. Our world is experiencing a political earthquake. What we thought was safe and predictable yesterday is unsafe and unpredictable today. When we're going to think about food security from now on, we have to think of total food security. Agriculture is important, but Norway is a port. We produce much more food and much more protein from the sea than we produce from agriculture, but we have no food security policy or food security strategy associated with what is our sovereign largest production of edible health and good protein. What we need now is a debate on how Norway is going to secure food supply and healthy and good nutrition even in times that we are now facing, and that can be completely different from what we have been used to until now. Then we also have to think about the fish we fish: where does it go? What capacity do we have to accept it? How do we take care of it and process it? How do we distribute it to people when they need them to eat it? This has a direct link to the discussion about the landing of Norwegian fishing catches versus sending them frozen to distant countries. This has links to coastal workplaces, and this is the debate we now need, which does not distinguish agriculture, food production and food security from fisheries policy, but sees it as a whole. The Green Party is going to follow up on the work that Norway is now going to produce a comprehensive and real food strategy based on the food we can actually produce here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1053	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Vooting reference
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1073	Research is exciting and important – for many it may be a little distant. Research is what we surround ourselves with in everyday life. It's the good solutions, that make our everyday life simple, that give less CO 2 emissions, that made Norway happy, that gave us a vaccine against the corona, that makes the food we produce healthy, that makes us have a competitive mainland industry that produces car parts all over the world. Research is essential to address the major societal challenges and to increase sustainability, competitiveness and innovation. We've been saying that for a while now, and that's absolutely true: we're at a crossroads. We have some advantages in Norway that give us great opportunities to face the challenges we face. But then we need to focus on research — and on the application and making available of research — so that we can take advantage of the opportunities we have. It is therefore essential to put research and the application of research on the agenda. Transition times require knowledge and competence. The NHO Roadmap states that Norway must create 250,000 new jobs in the private sector by 2030. Strategic investment in research and innovation is a prerequisite for achieving that objective. Studies of the impact of research show that DKK 1 correctly invested in public research funds can provide at least DKK 3 of documented new value creation in business. Norway should have a greater link between the investments we make in research, development of competences and industrial activities in order to increase the pace of innovation and conversion. There may be many links from theoretical basic research to goods and services that make life better or easier for people in everyday life. In order for us to get value from research, all of these terms have to work. Here it is important to have a strategy and that society and the state facilitate access to research in business, both in small and large enterprises. Large parts of the value creation and innovation shall take place in startups and in small and medium-sized enterprises, and there are enterprises that cannot have their own research departments or manage large-scale research projects. Research must therefore be made available through cooperation with established research environments which can contribute to research-based activity development. The development of Norway will depend on how we succeed in getting research and innovation into small and medium-sized enterprises. We now have a new government, but I hope and believe that in this room, and in the government, we have a great deal of a common understanding of the importance of high ambitions in this field, and that we see the need for a knowledge-intensive business. This requires research and development efforts to maintain competition. In order to succeed in stimulating increased R & D activity, we need to use a wide range of instruments and reach out to small and large players in the university and higher education sectors, the institute sector and industry in an efficient way. The question is how to continue to develop this ecosystem well, make sure that we meet the full range of research and education institutions, and stimulate increased interaction and cooperation between business and public and private research actors. Norway needs to strengthen and renew its knowledge base in order to be able to contribute to the business we need in the future – a commitment that will enable Norwegian research environments to lie in the international research front. It is therefore important to facilitate that the research communities, such as the Norwegian institute sector, have the space for action they need to be in the research front and have arrangements that allow them to share knowledge, especially with smaller enterprises. I want to put research on the agenda and ask the Council of State how he will work to increase R & D activity in business and strengthen Norway's innovative capacity and competitiveness in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1095	The interpellant assumed that we have a great deal of common sense of reality associated with this very important problem. We have. I feel that there is a great degree of consensus around many of the moments that Kari-Anne Jønnes addresses. It makes me very happy that this interpellation is coming up. The question of how this government works to increase R & D activity in industry and to strengthen Norway’s innovative capacity and competitiveness in the coming years is an important issue for the government. It is important for us to strengthen the whole of Norway's innovative capacity, competitiveness and enable us to meet the major challenges facing us as a country. Fortunately, optimism is back in Norwegian business, and there is a great demand for both skills and jobs. I want to facilitate the proper competence of the population, high research and development activity in business and good interaction between business and academia throughout the country. In the years ahead, Norway faces both known and unknown challenges. We know that there will be fewer working age behind each pensioner, so we have to think new and innovative. We know that government expenditure will go up without revenue increasing as much, while at the same time implementing a fair green shift. This requires cooperation and targeted efforts, not only from the public, but a good, long-term collaboration with private businesses. It is important for the government to be able to live a good life throughout the country. That is why we must, among other things, present a reform for decentralised education that will meet regional skills needs and make training provision more accessible to people where they live. This is a national lift. There's no way out. We need to reach a greater proportion of the Norwegian population with higher education and skills development. In addition to the work on proper skills where people live, the government has announced a green industrial promise, where the Minister of Industry and I have established close dialogue. Innovation is crucial when we're going to find the right solutions together. In this work, we will also ensure the good involvement of the social partners, industry, business and academia. The government also plans to present the new long-term research and higher education plan. The plan will draw up the horizon for the next ten years and will be reviewed in four years. Work on the long-term plan has seen the need for new tools to promote cross-sectoral interaction and coordination, societal actors and research environments to address the major societal challenges. Industry accounts for a central part of Norway’s overall research and development efforts. Business will therefore be crucial if we are to achieve the objectives and follow up the priorities we are developing in the plan in a good way. In addition to reviewing the objectives and priorities of the long-term plan, this time we also look at what can improve the capacity of the knowledge system to meet the major societal challenges. How do we achieve a more targeted and coordinated use of instruments for competence, research and innovation? An instrument assessed in this context is precisely social tasks. The OECD has on several occasions highlighted the need for better policy coordination and stronger cross-ministerial cooperation on key priorities and potential-driven innovation policies in Norway. This has taken this government seriously, and we have started work on better research-driven innovation and entrepreneurship. The aim of this work is to concreteise higher education, research and innovation policies and instruments for, among others. to achieve the objective of achieving the business research and development activity of 2 p.p. of gross domestic product by 2030. We also want to work more on developing how we can get more commercialization out of publicly funded research. International cooperation is part of this, and as the representative was involved, we have joined Horizon Europe, which is the world's largest research and innovation programme. It not only provides access to a number of enterprises and research environments and public infrastructure and networks, but it also provides opportunities for funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1118	I thank the Council of State for the article. It still seems to me that we share a lot of the reality description and the goal, and that's very good. The Solberg government has raised R & D efforts in Norway substantially over eight years. R & D appropriations for the State budget increased by 16.3 billion. kr, which corresponds to a real growth of about 28 pst. 2020 was the year with the highest R & D share of GDP ever, and since 2016 the R & D share has been above 2 pst. GDP. It has not been done by itself, but through clear priorities, high ambitions and strengthening mechanisms that stimulate increased activity. Research and innovation policies have not been given such a great place in the new government platform. The platform mentions a number of individual initiatives on research and innovation in different sectors and themes, but lacks a comprehensive strategy and a direction for how the government wants to strengthen nutrient-oriented research in interaction with the research environment at large. This must reflect the revision of the LTP. A Joint Education and Research Committee agreed in 2021 to participate in Horizon Europe and underlined the importance of participation in such programmes for Norwegian research and innovation. This will help to give Norwegian research communities and businesses access to the necessary knowledge and networks of international researchers and institutions. We know that schemes such as STIM-EU/RES-EU, targeting the institute sector, and Project creation support, PES, have been important in increasing further participation in the European programmes and should be further developed and ensured. The results of the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Innovation show that the institutes are the main research link with Europe for Norwegian enterprises and public enterprises. To achieve the ambition of 2.8 pst. in return, we must maintain and strengthen efforts to ensure the success of Norwegian environments in EU projects. It's important to remember that 25 pst. public R & D funds are channelled through the EU system. Norway has paid the entrance ticket to the EU's Horizon Europe research and innovation programme. The return rate is set at 2.8 pst., and we see that Norwegian environments have succeeded in this programme until now. How will the Council of State follow up the strategy for Norwegian participation in Horizon Europe and the European Research Area, and, in particular, how will the government contribute to the development of instruments and venues for joint research initiatives across businesses, institutes and the UH sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1139	I will start with a small case information to correct the representative's maximum boast of the previous government. Norway spent a total of nearly 78 billion dollars. SEK for research and development work in 2020. Adjusted for wage and price growth, this is actually a decrease in R & D expenditure of 1 pst. from the previous year, but at the same time, it is true that the share of R & D expenditure in GDP has never been higher. It is clearly due to pandemic and crisis more than an active priority from the previous government. Having said that, I share the view that we have a common sense of reality related to the importance of this work in the future, and how important it is that we succeed, not only in prioritising research and innovation, but not least in making research results available. We need to be able to build on the perceived valuable skills and technology development that lie not only in the institute sector, but in our universities and colleges, get it into the market, create jobs and activity. On the other hand, I do not share the representative's experience that there is no strategy for this in the government platform or in government policy, or that there is not much room in the government platform. That's it. This is one of the important areas of government. It's quite obvious that we're going to succeed in all the goals we've set ourselves in a variety of sectors, we need development, we need change, we need innovation, and we need a knowledge-based urban and urban policy. It's the big project of this government. Then I got a concrete question about participation in Horizon Europe and how we're going to follow it up in the future. I have noticed with great pleasure that the Norwegian institute sector and many Norwegian research communities have received large allocations through the Horizon programme lately. Not only is it a quality sign that is reason to rejoice and be proud of in this room, but it also leads to a significant increase in activity in the area ahead in Norway, leading to our researchers and our professional communities connecting valuable contact networks and networking in Europe. I think that's the way forward. We're going to look at how we can build up that activity in the future, and preferably strengthen it. Finally, I would like to stress that the goal of a return share of 2.8 pst. is ambitious, but it's at the same time within reach. So it's just a number -- it wouldn't have been completely out of the way either if it had gotten even bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1152	It is right and important — almost at all times, I would say — to focus on research and development activities in the business community. Of course, when the Hurdal Platform designates research and education efforts across the country, this is about research and development in the business world. We simply have great ambitions for research towards and in businesses and businesses. A good example of inspiration and follow-up from my own region is the UIA with its community model. They have a large multidisciplinary program for entrepreneurship called Shift, and a large stake of 70 million. kr in the specialist battery technology environment, which will support the establishment of a battery plant in Arendal. The Research Council is one of our major muscles responsible for increasing the knowledge base and helping to meet the societal needs for basic and applied research and innovation. The funds from the Norwegian Research Council are now annually of 11 billion. kr, and they have to work all over the country. But in practice, we see that the funds of the Research Council are dominated by Oslo, Trøndelag, Hordaland and Akershus. This practice can have a kind of interest rate effect where universities and R & D institutions with a lot of capacity are given even more capacity after the application competition and business in other regions may not necessarily benefit equally from the research. This is why an important step is to ensure that enterprises in all regions benefit from good research, to expand our efforts for excellent research and education environments, and to establish new research environments in the top international classes related to clusters. For the size of the population – it is estimated that the government is continuing the 3-percentage of research policy and that we are to present a strategy for business research and development to be 2 pst. of gross domestic product in 2030. When the funds are well distributed across the country, across businesses across the country, we can achieve the goal of sustainable development, frontier research and radical innovation, not least change and growth in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1165	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic. Research forms the basis for what we will live on in the future. As the interpellant pointed out, the NHO estimated a need for 250000 net new jobs in the private sector by 2030. In order to succeed, it is essential that we increase R & D activity in industry and bring knowledge and research results faster to ideas, solutions and companies that generate growth and values. The current long-term research plan has a target of 3 pst. gross domestic product is intended for research. In order to achieve this, the research effort of industry needs to be increased to 2 pst. Although industry’s research effort in 2020 was record high as a share of GDP, it is one step to go from the record-high 1.1 pst. and up to the target of 2 pst. Total industrial research is the result of industry's own research efforts and research at universities and higher education institutions and the institute sector. One area we need to focus more on is the commercialisation of research results. Not everyone gets horn music in the chest by the word commercialization. But the commercialisation of research results is about bringing research of research institutions into what can provide tax revenue and finance our common well-being and further research. It makes research more relevant to the world outside the laboratories, offices and workshops. Therefore, we should press ahead and work for the commercialisation of research results. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State in its last contribution expressed the willingness to strengthen the sharing of research results into the market, and I look forward to seeing the results of this goodwill. A close doubling of the research effort in industry is a significant boost. This promise must be made both by the major commercial locomotives in Norway and by the large flora of small and medium-sized enterprises — and it must not least be clearly valued by government and enlargement. The business community needs a combination of direct support for selected research projects, broad and unbureaucratic schemes such as SkattenFUNN and a security for society to value long-term investments that can generate returns in a few years’ time. The instruments involved are limited in their portfolio of research and higher education ministers. TaxFUNN is the largest R & D scheme in industry and a major source of funding for R & D activity in small and medium-sized enterprises. TaxFUNN is a rights-based tax deduction scheme for research and development enterprises, regardless of their theme and industry. Most of us are affected by feedback — motivated or discouraged. If the state views the investment in future value creation as a solution that can help society, it provides a motivation for action. If the state views the valuer as a profiter who should be taxed harder, it gives less motivation. Both decisions and words count, including for business research.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1184	There is broad agreement on the broad lines of research policy and the importance of Norway’s participation in European research cooperation. One of the unique things in Norway is that we use resources all over the country — the top mountain shelf, the innermost fjord and the outermost island. There are people living there who are engaged in business development, and research and development opportunities must also be available. We believe that if we are to ensure access to research and development opportunities for all the enterprises, we depend on universities, educational environments and research environments across the country – strong professional environments that know both local challenges and not least local opportunities. It is reasonable to say that the Right Party and the Advance Party, with their centralisation lever in the higher education sector, have made the job of the current government more difficult in our belief that we should have good environments everywhere in the country. If we are to solve the major challenges ahead, the whole of business and society must contribute. Innovation and competitiveness need to be strengthened in all parts of business, and we need to focus more on what we can best: forests, fish, energy and industry, to name something. Then we need to have close-up universities and colleges, and participation in Horizon Europe provides Norway with access to both networks of research, innovation and infrastructure and markets that contribute to solving societal challenges that are challenging at national level alone. The overall research effort is to be at least 3 pst. of GDP by 2030. It has been challenging for many years to raise the share of industry, and we in the Centre Party therefore share the interpellant's intention to increase research and development activity in industry in the years to come. We have to do that through a wide range of instruments. And in order for us to do this, we have to assume that the industrial structure in Norway, with many small and medium-sized enterprises, and the ability to make use of all the resources across the country, requires a decentralised educational structure. It is necessary to ensure business contacts and proximity to research and competence environments throughout the country. It is therefore also important to maintain and further develop the decentralised higher education sector. Presence is important for both catching up and solving local and regional challenges, and I am pleased that the Central Party and the Labour Party want a different direction for this sector than the former government wanted. And I look forward to the further work of the government in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1197	First of all, thank you very much for the interpellant, which addresses a very important topic. Coupling research against business is an important thing, across all the parties that have been on the platform here today. What we're discussing is how we're going to get to this very best possible. The answer to that is certainly not in place yet completely, but an important prerequisite for getting a step further is the long-term plan, which it is now working on. Looking at the consultation responses to the long-term plan, this is also promised by several institutions, both the established universities and universities, and not least by the research institutes, who want to take a clearer role, want to take a greater responsibility and want to be even more on the ground to address the future challenges and to participate and achieve the objectives we have in order to increase the share of research in business. It is certainly that getting to this also requires an effort from the fine government we now have, with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I am pleased with the answers that the Council of State gives when he points to the scope and will. Not least, the formulations of the Hurdal platform are also with us in order to find the right solutions. Since we have a minister in the Chamber, I must point out that the research that industry is going to do is also important to the municipalities, because it is also about how municipalities will solve the challenges in the future. Knibe Kroglund mentions the decentralised – as previously mentioned – and it is also important, what is happening locally out there, in contact with business. Both the major actors and the small and medium-sized enterprises can help find solutions for how we meet the future, but they can also help find solutions for how to get more activity decentralised and in the municipalities. I know that the municipalities also want to be involved and actors in order to get more research and development where they are, so connecting municipalities to get business to provide more, I think is an important input. I challenge the two ministers who are in the Chamber today to talk more together about it. I would like to point to a local example where research and development towards business have succeeded and are in progress. It's the Kongswinger region and what's going on there. It's taken in 100 million. kr from the business community to get to a local research centre, so let's see what we see in Agder. It connects one to the big business players, but it also gives the small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to hire someone who takes a doctorate. It's not the big numbers it brings in, but it creates a development and an optimism, and it's positive in the Great District Norway. As pointed out in the Hurdal platform, linking it up to nutrient clusters is a unique opportunity to go a few steps further, even though it does not trigger the large numbers, which we are also looking for, where we need to look at Horizon Europe and others, which have even greater forces in them. That's actually what we're doing through research today, and what we're doing in research the next year and the next ten years that will be involved and put words on the challenges we have, and whether we can solve them. We don't know what questions we're going to ask yet, we don't know what answers we're going to get to solve it. It's about the green shift, it's about digitization, and it's about so many things. There are so many good forces out there that want to contribute, so our job now is to rig the system so that we can take advantage of the opportunities we have in Norway through the framework we have, and we need to sharpen those frameworks even more clearly in order to be able to get even more research and development. I look forward to further working on this in the committee, and not least with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1220	Thanks to the interpellant for putting research and development on the agenda. We've always, like a small and open economy, been successful in being part of a global interaction. Even though we're rich, we can't take it for granted now. If we seize our own technology development, the political possibilities are great. Norwegian business will take an even greater part in global interaction in the future. Technological solutions are only valuable if they are in global competition. Then we have to have resources and premises on the effort side that allow us to be competitive. For what does it really mean to be competitive? This means that one delivers world-leading products, services and production processes. Apart from a few services, the vast majority of the services we use are traded in the international market, and then we as a trade nation have to be relevant. The only way we can do this is to use the resources we have to become competitive. Then it's either about getting better or cheaper. The need to develop new insights and solutions has never really been greater than in recent years’ global developments. That is why we now need to give priority to tasks that will require top skills, good people and a good dose of developmental power. It requires budgetary priorities from the government. It is important that the debate on research and innovation keeps up here, and we need to look further and further ahead. Why do taxpayers have to finance research? Well, it's to generate new insights and train our citizens in relevant competences. We students want and are ready to solve the challenges of the future. The public role of funding research is fully in line with Solberg's government's strong commitment to research, from 2013 on, and that developing and driving value creation to create jobs is a private responsibility. All the challenges we have to solve in the future require risky investment effort from the private sector, but then one has to work continuously with the innovation muscle. We cannot live on a state-owned innovation muscle in the long term. Private initiatives must flourish in the market, both with investment and capital. We are not allowed to create these higher education disciplines in Norway to respond to these challenges, if there are structural debates to shape the entire government's research and higher education policy. Therefore, future research and innovation needs on a number of points of conflict course with the government’s executive policy. The centre party must respond to three key challenges: How long will the structural debate continue on the location of any study institution in Norway and overshadow the real challenges of higher education to help solve the future? When will the Central Party recognise global cooperation, which is absolutely essential to our research in the international class and fundamental to the development of our economy? Does the Central Party, in line with the signals from the Minister of Industry, believe that it is a state task to engage in innovation in business? The right-hand party expects the Centre to address these challenges before embarking on the major work of revising the long-term plan for higher education and research in this autumn. We're only good if we're good at meeting the international actors. Should the corner stone company be able to live in close symbiosis with fresh ideas, empirical and higher education theory, it needs a real commitment, and this work must start now. We simply can't afford the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1252	I would like to thank the Council of State and the representatives for a good and important debate. This is essentially about addressing both today’s and tomorrow’s challenges and ensuring good welfare and value creation. And we all have a responsibility here to raise the debate on research, development and innovation to the top of the agenda. In order to safeguard Norway’s competitiveness and well-being in the coming years, we need to succeed in providing high-quality education and research. We in the Right will have a strong focus on how to stimulate and motivate increased R & D activity in business, in good interaction with institutes and institutions in Norway. And we want more focus on quality than on localization. If education policy and research policy are reduced to district policy alone, the strength of both – both in education policy and in research policy – is weakened, and we cannot afford that. This cannot be repeated too often: if Norway is to succeed in international competition in the future, we need to invest more in research and education. We have to remember what's the most important thing, and that's content and quality. The right-hand aim is to have high-quality research and education environments in Norway, and we're going to have it all over the country, but we can't do research all the time. We're going to help strengthen the environments we have, and we're going to help expand them. To achieve that objective, we need to continue to invest in internationalisation and commercialisation of research results. The institution sector has been mentioned several times and must be recognised as one of the main inputs to business-oriented and applied research. We need a strong and offensive institute sector that provides relevant high-quality competence and research service to business and that contributes to research projects in collaboration with industry and the UH sector. The overall breadth of institutes and R & D units contributes to the important diversity and quality of Norway’s overall research activity and has covered nearly 10 000 R & D annuals over the past five years. It is significant, and in particular their position against the EU programmes is very central to us in the future. The Solberg Government presented a strategy for overall institute policy in 2020, and together with the basic report and the Research Council’s evaluation, there is a solid starting point for further development of the institute sector and, among other things, their role in activating business in national and international research projects. I thank you for the debate and look forward to hearing the final statements of the Council of State. And I'm going to challenge the Council of State to say something about whether it's relevant to look more at how funding and arrangements aimed at the institute sector can be further developed to increase activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1267	I would like to thank you for a good and mainly very factual discussion. I think that reflects what many of us have had in the debate, namely that many of the objectives – and to the extent that the instruments – are shared by a large community here in this Chamber. Then I have a few considerations on the trapezoid. One is that, as politicians – this is also a bit in the political system – we often measure success or investment in terms of budgets and posts. It doesn't always have to be like that, and let me do a short example. When I was on my way into the hall here now, there was a discussion about agriculture and agricultural negotiations. It is a sector that has developed between 6 pst year after year. and 7 pst. It is possible to implement new technologies, and it is made possible by strong developments in agriculture, which, to a large extent, gives them far too little credit. My point is that the productivity development in the different sectors is what we're really looking for, not how many millions we're going to allocate to one or the other, but that this is going into the real economy, and that in the sector by sector we get the development we're looking for. When the Council of State Grams sitting here is going to develop the municipal service offer in the future, he is totally dependent on a well-being technology that allows people's efforts to go down a little bit, simply because there are not enough people in the kingdom. You're probably also going to have to do things a little bit different than you've done before. This also applies to our own sector – it also applies to the research and development environments, I believe. Then you draw up something that, at my discretion, is an artificial distinction, where on one side you put quality and on the other side you put geography. It seems to me to be completely pointless with respect to reporting. Norway's success has always been that we've managed to see the whole country and use the whole country, and the different parts of the country have different advantages, different environments, different clusters of competences, which I'm sure the sum of is what draws us as a nation. That's what makes us able to develop the total potential we have as countries and people. So the sooner we stop talking about that there's a contrast between having research and development and high-quality education around the country, and having quality in these environments on the other hand, the better I think it's for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1280	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1298	The Central Party and the Workers' Party have announced a new direction in district policy, and that is a great need. For the past eight years, we have had a reformative government where the focus has been on the centralisation and reduction of service provision, and where districts have gradually been drained for resources — bit by bit. Preparedness, health, school, legal systems, transportation, yes, almost independently of sectors and areas, the answer has been largely the same: the provision of services needs to be centralised in order to provide a robust and good range of services. What we see is that the state is withdrawing and becoming more inaccessible to most of us. As a result, districts and small municipalities are experiencing a decline in population. Endangered settlements are the ultimate consequence. Now we need a new course. In the Center Party, we've always been clear that we want to do it differently. We believe in all of Norway and that a strong settlement in the districts has value both for individuals and for our society as a whole. But if we're going to do this in the future, we have to have the youth with us, because whether we want to realize it or not, it's the very ones that are the future, and it's those who are going to live in the districts in the years to come. In 2020, the Youth District Panel was set down. They made a major effort across the country to gather the advice of young people on future district policies. The result was ten concrete advice on what needs to be in place for the youth to want to live in the districts, move home after finishing education. These advices were comprehensive and innovative on everything from what is needed to access the work community and vary jobs through, for example: regional job coordinators, to link young people to local business – to well-known issues such as: that it must be easier to get from a to the districts, that we need attractive communities, a housing policy that works, and that you have to feel safe wherever you live. This underlines the diversity of rural policies, and that rural policy is covered by all the political decisions we make. While we have to think about it, we also need to have concrete ambitions and talk about what kind of ambitions and concrete measures we want to take. This is precisely why the advice from the Youth District Panel is also a good and important knowledge base. Unfortunately, these advices were not followed up, because when the Solberg government presented its big message on district policy, they did so before they had suggested that the panel's work was finished. It was a shame, because there was a lot of good advice that they should have had with them in the work. Nevertheless, I have to make it clear that it is a good picture of how district policy has been in recent years. It was supposed to look nice on the paper, but didn't mean much in practice. But now we have a new opportunity, because next to the ongoing crisis management, it is now the new government that starts its work and lays the foundation for what we're going to get into the next few years. The Hurdal platform has great ambitions in district policy. There we state that regional policy should be strengthened and strengthened and renewed, and that we should now pursue a policy for stronger communities, growth and development, in which the city and the country should once again go hand in hand. So my question to the Council of State is therefore: how will he follow the advice of the Youth District Panel in his further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1311	A lot goes well in District Norway. Business delivers good results, and significant values are created. There's a lot of activity to promote a green transition. But District Norway is also aware of major challenges. In recent years, we have seen both torch trains and torch guerrillas, a clear indication that the rural population has experienced that national authorities have not seen the needs they have. The population has fallen in many municipalities, and the age structure suggests that the decline will continue. It's no longer enough to slow down deportation to maintain the population, it has to move to. It is in this perspective that the interpellant is making good progress in raising the recommendations of the Youth District Panel. District Norway needs to better organise its youth and young adults both to become municipalities and communities outside the most central regions. One of the main government projects, therefore, is to renew and strengthen district policy. Next spring we will present a new district message. The target is a long-term change of pace. These include: to inspire young people to take relevant education, to offer attractive jobs and good places to live in the districts. I have read the proposals from the Youth District Panel and can assure the interpellant that the advice from the panel will be assessed in that communication. If we are to make more young people want to live and live outside the big cities, we must also listen to those who are young. The youth district panel is concrete in its advice. I would like to comment on some of those that I already believe are particularly important to follow-up. Council number two from the panel is about decentralised and flexible training provision. I think this will be one of the most central areas of action in a strengthened district policy. The centralisation policy we have seen in higher education needs to be replaced by decentralisation and adaptation to the needs of districts. Lack of competence is one of the biggest challenges for our society, but District Norway is the best aware of it. The government is already stepping up its efforts in this area in the budget of the year. Council number four is about high-speed broadband and good mobile coverage across the country. Yes, it is and will be even more essential and necessary infrastructure that needs to be in place. The government has already increased its investment compared to the proposal of the Solberg government, but needs are high. We're going to target the full coverage of high-speed broadband for everyone in this magnification period. It won't be possible to succeed in settling and moving without you being online, I think all the young people can sign that. Then, in addition to the panel, we see that young people are engaged in diverse workplaces, work experience and connection to local business, good transport solutions, access to housing, good meeting places, access to health services and safe preparedness. Young people are also concerned with major and important issues relating to the democratic right of young people to be heard and to have influence, and sustainable development that takes care of the values of future generations. There are many good advice in the recommendations of the Youth District Panel, and I am pleased that the Hurdal Platform also largely reflects these recommendations. Although the district notification is not to be provided until about one year, as mentioned, we are already developing policies that also respond to the needs of young people. In addition to increased investment in decentralised education and broadband provision, this may, for example: It mentions strengthened municipal and county economics, cheaper ferry services, increased involvement in local police and green economic development in the district policy area. We are also preparing a commitment to regional and rural growth agreements and neighbourhood services centres, with the objective of an even better coordinated rural policy – to mention something. The work on district policy is a high priority of this government, and young people need to be involved in developing attractive and good places to live in District Norway. I am now conducting consultation meetings on rural policy throughout the country. In those hearings, youth representatives from the district panel are also invited. It contributes to a good basis for the new district notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1330	Initially, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that we share our views on this issue, and that the Council of State indicates that he has specific answers to how the advice of young people is taken into account in the further work. Young people in the district panel and the state council are raising very important issues here. And the Council of State is probably right: I think we're a lot of young people in District Norway who can recognize us in them, and we have to take that seriously. We have to take it seriously when young people tell them that they have to drive for 10 minutes from home to get a school assignment, or that they can't participate in social life with other kids online, even in 2022. We have to take it seriously when young people don't dare to build themselves houses in the districts because they fear that they lose money because the construction costs will be greater than the value of the house when you put the key in the door. We need to take it seriously when young people are calling for tools for industrial development, more meeting places and a good training offer in the vicinity. But from the Council of State's response, like him, I am optimistic. The Hurdal platform sprang out a clear direction and has great ambitions that we will now be using the whole country. In the future and in the other areas of regional policy, it is important that we now look at what is possible to achieve, and that we dare to think again. We need to assess the impact of any reform on regional policy, but we also need to think about district policy in all policy decisions. At the same time, we need to keep thinking new, to be creative and to push the policy forward in practice. Maybe you can, for example: Take some action in connection with the write-down of student loans based on the centrality class of the municipality to which you are moving, or you can take some action through the Husbanken, to make it feel safer to build housing in the districts. Only creativity and will set limits. Nevertheless, I must say that I am pleased that the Council of State is drawing up the specific issues and that we are already in the process. I hope in the light of this that we can now have a good debate with several parties that can engage in how we're going to dry up thinking ahead, and really facilitate the young people's desire to move out. That's exactly what we have to do in the years ahead to be able to take care of what Norway we're so happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1347	I agree with the assessments made by the interpellant in their submissions. In the first post, something I would like to stress, namely these ten councils that are available from the Youth District Panel, which actually show the breadth of commitment, but also what is important for us to succeed in our district policy. Because in some cases it is a point of focus, where a target target is specific in narrow areas, but above all, a powerful, renewed and strengthened district policy is about putting regional policy considerations and a regional policy thinking in all policy areas. It's only when we get power into this work and can succeed in what's also a pretty big challenge in the field of universal development, in parts of the country. The interpellant dealt with several specific themes in its follow-up post, for example: housing policy, which I believe is a very important topic. The government shall also provide an own-account housing report. Housing policy is very important, but it is also a little difficult. There is significant market power, and there are challenges at different ends of the housing market, both in press areas and in districts. But I believe that, in addition to providing an own housing message, we need to bring housing policy forward in the district notification and in the district policy. Because, as has been said, the challenge in parts of the country is that construction costs and mortgage value are not coherent, and it may be challenging to obtain funding for adapted housing in rural areas. I believe that, in many ways, there is also a slightly undervalued part of the policy, namely to have adapted housing provision at different stages of life, different parts of the country, also geographically. There are target conflicts in housing policy, and this is also a somewhat demanding area. Interpellant also mentioned this with personalised tools and on student loans. This is something on the Hurdals platform, which we are in the process of following up, namely going through the personalised instruments as part of district policy to see how it works, how it works, and, if necessary, how it can be strengthened. We have started this work now, evaluating the personal instruments in the action zone in Nord-Troms and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1356	Youth is the most important voice of the future. Then it is gratifying that the municipal minister said so clearly that the Youth District Panel and the youth's voice should be taken seriously. The Youth Panel emphasises the importance of communities that are proud of themselves and have faith in their own inhabitants and that we honor each other. I very much agree with that. Positive, inclusive and strong communities are crucial for creating a future of good communities. The Youth Panel provided ten advice. Today's government has, as we hear the Minister of State say, taken hold of more, because it's urgent. Today, the trend is that many district municipalities experience depopulation and a decline in population. This is why the country needs a new and strengthened district policy. The government is already working on a new growth message on district policy to look at what kind of action we can take to create growth across the country. Then we have to listen to the youth. I believe that many in Norway and in the districts feel that the state has left them and that the services are centralised away. Therefore, as an example, today’s government wants to establish local government centres that organise, for example, passports, driving licences and marriage certificates, and which can provide general free legal advice. Such centres can provide more jobs locally, but above all they can provide services where people live. There is one concrete measure to make districts more attractive. Then we also need a new housing policy that speeds up housing, including in the districts. Many people argue to build a dwelling because of the impairment, which the Council of State also had in mind. As the youth panel says, the Husbank can have an even greater role here, and it can be more attractive for young people to build housing even in the districts. Workplaces and good welfare are the most important areas of rural policy, and we need exciting jobs across the country as part of the Youth Panel, and it needs to be made possible for people to work more fully where they live. Sofie Persdatter Sangnæs from Gran was one of those put in the panel. She writes in a reader's letter: ‘If distance work is better facilitated, you can work in a large international company and sit in a home office or in a community in the countryside.’ It is well thought, it is quite right, and it is quite in line with what the Council of State also said in an interpellation last week when we discussed the localisation policy. Demographic developments are also a strong signal that we need more people living in the whole country. By 2030 there will be a historical shift. The number of children and young people aged over 65 will then pass over the number of children and young people under the age of 20. The SSB says the gap will grow. The number of older people over 80 will double in 2040. Then there will be an enormous need to train and recruit more people into the healthcare system, and as the youth panel says, we need to make sure that more of the education is decentralised. If the youth has to leave to take education, it will also be harder to get them back. So I would also like to thank Maren Grøthe who asks the question here in Stortinget. It is important that the good work done by the Youth District Panel is given greater attention than just being in a drawer. If you look at the list of speakers, there are two parties who are involved in district policy and who are involved in the debate here today. At least then it is good for the district policy that the two parties also govern Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1382	Eight years of right and right party rule have led to quite deep wounds in very many communities around Norway – so that as a society we will have to spend both time and a lot of resources on healing. We in the Center Party talk daily to young people who are concerned about what is happening in the community where they live. They are concerned about the disappearance of services, opportunities and jobs. They are concerned that public transport, job opportunities and schools are going to be smaller and smaller, and that opportunities are being removed. Eight years of centralisation have meant that the need to rethink district policy has become major. That's why I'm glad the right-wing government put down the Youth District Panel. I'm also incredibly happy with the work they've done, because in my opinion and the opinion of the Center Party, they've taken some of the essence of building strong and steady communities. I am also pleased that both the Council of Grams, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party are listening and taking with them many of the advice from the district panel. I want to give a concrete example of how some districts around have some differences with the rest of the country. I am myself from Uppland, and the National Communications Authority says that in the former Uppland and Hedmark counties have a total of 20 pst. not having access to a real broadband where they live. So there are 35,377 people only in former Hedmark and Uppland who don't have the opportunity to participate in the modern communications society, people who don't have the ability to contribute, and for example. provide tax returns, maybe not participating in schools and social arenas, like very many of us. It is said that crises are a magnifying glass of the differences that already exist in society. We noticed that well during the coronary apnea. There are many young people who don't have the Internet where they live, and then almost all the activity was quickly transferred to the Internet. We in the Center Party have talked to young people who had to get their father to drive them to the local library, just to get them access to and deliver school assignments. They couldn't do it where they live because the Internet was too bad. We live in a society where very much of the social activities, even outside the pandemic state, happen on the Internet. Many young people spend a lot of their evening playing Fortnite with friends and friends, and it is now that in Norway there are 537 000 people who do not have that opportunity. There are youths around who can't be part of the social activity that maybe everyone else at the school where they go is involved. Over many years, there has been a policy in Norway where it has been that those living on the outskirts may not be so interesting to give priority, and that has consequences. That is why I am very pleased that we have now received a new government that wants to prioritise this differently. And I also notice, like the representative, Støstad, that there are quite a number of parties that are missing in this room right now. I think that's a shame. I think it's stupid that no more want to contribute in terms of how we can make sure that we have a living country. I am both pleased and proud that the government with the Center Party and the Workers' Party is listening to both the people and the Youth District Panel. There is a very historical statement in the Hurdal platform that broadband is to be expanded throughout Norway and that there is an infrastructure right on the same lines as electricity. You ask me, it should just be missing that people should have equal opportunities wherever they live. I'm glad we have a different view of it than the government that ruled Norway before us. I am delighted for further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1401	I want to start by saying thank you to the interpellant for lifting this important interpellation to the Stortinget. It is very gratifying that the government is running a new district announcement. If there's someone we should listen to with extra attention, it's the youth, because they're the inhabitants of the future in district municipalities all over the country. It is those who are aware of what the districts should look like for young people to choose to live in their homes when they grow up. They point to what is needed for life to be made in the districts now and in the future. This is not just about the future, it is also about here and now. The well-being and pride of children and young people in their hometown are crucial if you are to consider living there at all in adulthood. When the right-wing government lifted the work of the Youth District Panel, it was with a message that yesterday’s solutions do not meet the challenges of districts, that we have to look forward to. Of course we'll look forward. But what struck me the first time I read the advice of the Youth District Panel was that this is not a desire for the unattainable. It is not a proposal that goes into the category of airlocks or wishful thinking. These are concrete, everyday needs, such as knowing that the rescue settings are there when you need them, that people should feel safe, the possibility of good education and access to fiber and mobile coverage – ten advice that very many think is a matter of course to have in their everyday lives, and that the young people in the village ask for better access to. Under the previous government, the municipalities that chose not to merge were penalised financially. They were called ‘voluntary small municipality’ and this resulted in smaller transfers from the state, while municipalities that agreed to merge were rewarded with money because they were in the ‘involuntary small’ category. The steps taken by the previous government to punish the municipalities that chose to exist as their own municipality are policy instruments that hit hard, especially in small municipalities. Municipalities have an important role to play in further developing the provision of services to citizens. They are a good supporter of local business, an important supporter of local teams and associations in developing the diversity of voluntary work in their municipality, so that more people can get the help they need in the municipality that they can find their job and their social meeting place. Basically, municipal economy is about municipalities having profits to create. I am therefore pleased that the government increased the revenues of the municipalities on the first occasion. We've been through two years with pandemics, and it's certainly been demanding too many businesses in our country. If I'm going to share a concern, that's what it's done to the young people's ability to get a place to learn. There are many small businesses that will be able to take on more apprentices if we are able to strengthen the framework conditions for apprenticeships, and which could contribute to a greater learning capacity for young people in their local environment at home. I am therefore very pleased that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have decided on the Hurdal platform that we should ensure a learning place for all young people qualified for Vg2. This must, of course, be done in cooperation with the county councils and the business community. Making sure that young people get a good start in working life is incredibly important. After ten years as rapporteur in a small district municipality in Agder, I know all about how little networks are being developed in the districts when the market is in place. I know a lot about how difficult everyday life becomes for both people and businesses when they don't have solid access to the Internet. Lack of broadband creates class barriers, and lack of broadband creates extraterrestrials. The government's ambition to secure all households where it is permanent access by 2025 is an important objective that will undoubtedly create greater opportunities for people and business, in line with what young people want. I am happy for the further work on the district communication. My wish is that we should spend time talking about what we should improve, how we should find the good measures where we can improve, that we use this work to promote and strengthen the opportunities of districts through concrete measures rather than telling about everything that does not work – for most of us live where we live because we want it. We live there because we thrive. Very often it is that people who thrive create. I look forward to the further work on the district communication and working on a strengthened district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1420	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for putting a very important matter on the agenda, and I would also like to thank those who have made contributions, for very good and committed contributions. Because if we're going to succeed in the vision we have for District Norway, the youth has to see it as time to settle and work there. It was therefore very wise for the Solberg government to ask young people what it takes to make them want to live, work and invest their future in the districts. However, it would have been even wiser and perhaps more credible if the Solberg government had also waited for what the Youth District Panel actually had of good advice, before they presented their district announcement. They didn't know that. Now, fortunately, Minister of Local and District Affairs Bjørn Arild Gram is in full swing with the new district announcement of the Centerparti – Labour Party government. I am glad that today he says so clearly that he will pay attention to the advice of the Youth District Panel, for these are young people who – like today’s interpellant – have faith in a future in District Norway, and who know where the shoe prints. They're probably worth listening to, because they're the ones who're going to live in the districts in the years to come. The ambition of the centre party is that it should be attractive for people to live throughout the country. They must have educational opportunities, a meaningful job to go to and access good services that provide security in everyday life. That's how we create growth and living communities. I don't think it's surprising that a wide range of housing offers is one of the most important things for young people to want to live in a district municipality. I have been contacted by several resource-intensive young people with great education, good work and good pay who want to live in District Norway. Like many other youths, they have thoughts about how their dream home should be, and since it is not sold at finn.no in the area they want to live, they want to build themselves. But they don't know if they're dry, because apart from the property price, building houses in the districts costs as much as in the more central districts. They then wonder if they should take the risk of building housing at a cost far exceeding what the market is willing to pay. Because while people who build in the central strata can be sure that the value of the housing will rise, people in the districts feel that the housing falls heavily in value even before they get the key in the door. They can afford to build the house, but what if after a time they have to or will sell, because of job change or breakup? What then? Several loan institutions also refuse to provide loans, and at least the financing costs are higher, as the low market value makes the bank subject to higher equity requirements because there is less collateral in the property. Of course, everyone can't afford or want to live alone. Therefore, there is a need for both apartments and multi-holiday dwellings with facilities for owner-occupied or long-term rental. There's a big shortage in many places. And now it's not just young people in the start-up phase who are engaged in different housing offers. In fact, the lack of attractive housing in the districts is reported as a reason why companies and municipalities in pig-grown districts have problems recruiting people for job vacancies. We cannot leave the lack of suitable housing a bottleneck for increased attractiveness and growth in the districts. This should be one of several important issues raised and discussed in the government's district communication, which I hear the Council of State is open to, although – and of course I see it too – it is a complex matter. The Hurdal Platform proposes the establishment of a new grant scheme for housing in districts, as well as the provision of facilities for municipalities to build housing for people with limited equity in cooperation with other actors. These are good and targeted actions. I also think we should look closely at various incentive schemes for new buildings and rehabilitation, which have been tested in the municipalities that have succeeded in their active housing policy. I would encourage the Council of State to raise this issue in the hearings that are now being held around the country. Then I hope we get a lot of good recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1441	First of all, I would like to thank the other big business representatives and the Council of State for their commitment to the debate. The district policy is more topical than ever, and it is not on the commitment of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party. Nevertheless, it is difficult to sum up this debate without pointing out just that phenomenon that it was where the commitment came from. For the lack of commitment of the other parties in the hall during the matter here today, once again underlines why the district youth in me voted the centre party and voted for a shift this fall. In the debate, we have heard many good local examples of why the advice from the Youth District Panel is worth listening to – from Agder, where the representative from there points out that we need to invest even more in apprenticeships and workplaces locally, from Gran, on how to attract more office communities as a current option, or from Uppland and Hedmark, how many young people do not have access to the Internet. This is also much in line with the challenges of my home country, Trøndelag, where young people in numerous school debates highlighted the need for local investment in infrastructure. It is time for a change of course, and it is time for a major effort in district policy. Emptying the edges for people is not a law of nature, it is a result of political priorities and political decisions. For whom do young people really want to move home to a village with no good job opportunities, without the possibility of feeling safe or without the possibility of quality and living in their everyday lives? This is about a direction choice. It is about what Norway will look like today and how Norway will look like 10, 20 and 50 years ahead. I believe that we should be able to reverse the course, and that we should be able to achieve what was the goal of the Youth District Panel, namely that the youth should also be able to stand up in the future and say: the future of my hometown is quite bright.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1450	I want to start this article by thanking the interpellant for taking up this topic and through it given the undersigned an additional incentive to get well into the Youth District Panel. It's been useful and interesting. I've also thought that it might be interesting for those who put down the district panel, actually to hear how it's supposed to follow up, but we get to get back to it differently. Many different themes are addressed in this debate round, and it is not so unnatural given that there is a wide range of areas addressed by the district panel. I want to comment on a two-three relationship that has been mentioned through various articles. The representative, Støstad, was concerned with this with remote work and job-independent jobs. It is very important how we organise state-owned activities to support the labour market around the country and ensure that it is possible to recruit the best possible. Therefore, government localisation policy is very important, and the government has ambitions to ensure a better geographical distribution of growth in state jobs. In addition, better organisation of remote work and job-independent work can help complement that policy and ensure that one can recruit widely and provide opportunities for living in District Norway while at the same time working in different state establishments. This is, as Støstad said, something the government is following up on. The representative of Mykjåland was involved in the municipal economy. I believe that it is an important topic to address when we discuss this, both because the municipalities themselves are important to District Norway through their activities, and because the Youth Panel addresses a number of issues that are closely related to the fact that it is a good local economy. For example, when you have: addressing the need for enhanced mental health services, the provision of those services by the municipality of Norway is significant. Or, at all, to have services close to people, as the Youth Panel expresses – it is significantly Municipality-Norway to provide those services. Or to get around the country with the collective offer, ferries, planes, buses, etc. – it is the county councils that have a great responsibility to provide these services. So things are hanging together, and it is precisely the whole of the policy that, in total, must contribute to a powerful district policy. I look forward to following up on this further. It should be followed up both in the Regional Communication and in a number of specific policy areas, both before and after it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1464	The debate on substance is closed. 8 is over. Stortinget will take a break until voting is called at 4 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1487	The vote will be taken at the beginning of the sitting, starting with the items that remain on agenda No. 56, from Thursday 17 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1549	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1560	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1699	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1709	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1721	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for temporary changes to the IPD, which ensure that all invasive measures are anchored in the Stortinget, either before they are adopted, or immediately afterwards if anchorage is not possible in advance due to an emergency situation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a legislative committee to go through existing legislation and frameworks for combating pandemics, with particular regard to proportionality, protection of infection and legal certainty in the implementation of disease protection measures. The committee shall have as its mandate to consider how the government can be guaranteed the necessary powers, while ensuring democratic control and assessment of the nature, scope and proportionality of the measures at the time of implementation. The Committee shall make recommendations on how authorities can facilitate public and democratic anchoring where the interests concerned are heard and involved in the development of restrictions and contribute to the generation of new knowledge in crisis situations.’;» These proposals and the recommendations of the Committee shall be replaced by an alternative vote. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1745	The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1764	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to submit a legislative proposal that obliges healthcare companies to follow the advice given to patients from the Expert Panel so that the economy of the individual hospital does not become essential for patients’ access to treatment.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1794	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus proposal No 4, from Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen on behalf of Right, Red and Christian People's Party proposed no. 5-8, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 7 and 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to make a salary-lift in 2022 for nurses and health professionals of three percentage points in addition to regular salary growth.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the trade union movement, is asked to introduce a national compensation scheme for health workers working in hospital departments who have had an extra heavy burden due to covid-19.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1828	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to make use of the available private and non-profit capacity to relieve the public health system and to ensure that as many planned operations as possible, etc. may be implemented as planned by using the available private and non-profit capacity available.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget for 2022 with initial measures to ensure more places of study in the fields of medicine, health care, nursing and psychology.’ The left has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1852	Proposal No. 4, from Right, Red and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to update the 2019 technical report in order to settle the status, describe the challenge picture and provide a future perspective on the intensive capacity in Norway.’ The Left and the Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1871	Proposal No. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to quickly submit a plan to increase the intensive capacity of hospitals in the short term.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to put forward a motivation scheme to bring back former intensive nurses who are currently working in other professions, so that they can relieve the pressure on the health care system.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1896	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a long-term escalation plan in order to increase the intensive capacity of hospitals.’ The Left and the Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1920	The party of progress, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1932	The vote will then be taken on Friday 18 March, agenda No. 57. Case No. 1 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1946	During the debate, Mr Njåstad presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate a process to liquidate the county as a level of government.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1963	Right-wing support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e1975	Case No. 3 was an interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2006	During the debate, Mr Rem presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board of Governors requests the Enlarged Council to carry out the necessary investigations and to recommend to the Stortinget whether proceedings should be brought against the Council of State Knut Arild Hareide for infringement of Section 8(b) of the Liability Act in the context of the follow-up to the decision of the Trustee 1013. [[2020-2021]] Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2037	During the debate, Mr Rem presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size determines that clear, concrete and implementing decisions of the Parliament are constitutionally binding on government councils in relation to the Liability Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2072	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party proposed no. 2 and 3, by Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the possibility for power companies to apply for the expansion of hydropower in sheltered watercourses where they have identified that power generation can be increased without paying particular attention to the natural and environmental costs.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the 1 megawatt installed power limit for small power expansions in sheltered watercourses where the power plant adapts to safe natural interference.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2103	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a permanent, legally binding and cross-sectoral protection to be secured by sheltered watercourses and to return to Stortinget with a legislative proposal by 2023 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2118	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2128	The right hand side and the progress side have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2140	It was also recommended that: II Document 8:77 S [[2021-2022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2147	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2159	It was also recommended that: III Document 8:77 S [[2021-2022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2166	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2179	Then Stortinget goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2188	Case No. 1 and 2 are the second processing of laws and regulations 50 and 51. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 3 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2204	During the debate, Ingrid Fiskaa has presented three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left and Red Parties. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting the WTO support for India and South Africa’s proposals for a derogation from certain rules of the TRIPS Agreement, which will provide for a temporary derogation from certain intellectual property rights under the covid pandemic in order to increase production and access to vaccines, test equipment, medicines and medical devices – without conditions or countermeasures.’; The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2223	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for active, constructive and text-based negotiations on a temporary exemption from the TRIPS Agreement to improve global access to reasonable covid-related medical products and to address global production constraints and supply shortages.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strength of the work to resolve the enormous inequality in the world in the availability of vaccines, medicines and medical devices to fight the covid pandemic, with particular attention to the increase in vaccine production and the geographical distribution of production capacity, and to support a revision of the global framework for intellectual property rights for future pandemics.’ The Green and Christian People's Party has every support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2254	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2280	The progress party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2299	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Left and the Green Party proposal No 2, from Geir Jørgensen on behalf of Red proposed no. 3 and 4, by Olug Vervik Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to present a case to the Stortinget as soon as possible, providing Norwegian farmers with the necessary clarifications on profitability, including guarantees on the recovery of increased costs of electricity, fertilisers and fuels.’ Red, Left and Green parties The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2328	Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to submit proposals as soon as possible to remove the ceiling of the power support scheme for agricultural activities of 20000 kWt per undertaking per month.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2345	Proposal No. 1, from the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to present a case to the Stortinget as soon as possible, providing Norwegian grain farmers with the necessary clarifications on the profitability of food grain production before the seed enters the soil.’ The Red Party and the Christian People's Party have every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2369	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 2 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for § 2-4 of the main agreement for agriculture and to start further negotiations immediately for the agricultural settlement.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2384	Case No. 7 and 8 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2433	The President proposed that the draft representative be sent to the Financial Committee. Mrs Sneve Martinussen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2440	In view of the large and rapid increase in the price of goods that people need, and that it is a long time before the revision comes, I propose urgent consideration of the proposal in accordance with Section 39, second paragraph, point (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2445	Two procedural proposals have been made for Document 8:154 S. Would you like a word to put to the vote? - It's not set. The treatment procedure is becoming wetter. Alternatively, the proposal of the President for committee procedure and the proposal of the Red Committee on the procedure under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-22.ana.ud109e2490	As a result, the matters on today's map have been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
