ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e110	Representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Per Olaf Lundtigen and Trine Lise Sundnes, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Tellef Inge Mørland, Gro-Anita Mykjåland and Ingunn Foss on leave from 13 to 19 February and from the representative Silje Hemdal on leave from 15 to 17 February – all to attend meetings in Washington D.C. and UN consultations in New York under the auspices of the Interparliamentary Union by the Central Party Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen from 14 February to 20 March These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for West Agder, Aase Marthe J. Horrigmo, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the mandate of the representative Ingunn Foss, on the basis of parental leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For East Agder: Abel Cecilie Knibe Kroglund and Oddbjørn Kylland 15-17. February For West Agder: Amalie Gunnufsen 15-17. February For Hordaland: Sigbjørn Framnes 15-17. February For Telemark: Olav Urbø 15 February–18. March
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e192	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e197	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Tor André Johnsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Silje Hemdal, Morten Stordalen and myself, I have the honour of presenting a draft representative on the loss of the right to vote for a terrorist conviction. Furthermore, on behalf of the representative Tor André Johnsen and myself, I have the honour of presenting a proposal for a representative to amend the Criminal Procedures Act – the detention of terrorists.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e204	The representative, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e209	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Silje Hemdal, Sivert Bjørnstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the Finnmark race – a tool for promoting Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e214	The representative, Aram Karim, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e219	I want to make a proposal on behalf of Audun Hammer Hovda, Marian Hussein, Mona Fagerås and myself on alternative responses to the expulsion and strengthening of the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e224	The representative, Mr Larsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e230	On behalf of the representatives of Trond Helleland, Liv Kari Eskeland, Erlend Svardal Bøe, Bård Ludwig Thorheim, Alexander Stokkebø and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a Green Aviation Programme to facilitate the development, testing and implementation of zero and low-carbon aviation technologies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e235	The representative, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e240	On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, André N. Skkelstad and the signatures, I will present a proposal for a representative to strengthen investment in the Norwegian health industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e245	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e277	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e284	The Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors’ Board of Governors. This is in line with the guidelines and principles given by the Storing. The default from Stortinget's evidence selection means a percentage increase in the size representatives and government members of 1.7 pst. for 2020 and 2,7 pst. for 2021 but with effect from 1 May 2021 for the changes. The background to the evidence review has presented proposals to change evidence for both 2020 and 2021 is that evidence has not been adjusted since 2019, while one has been waiting for the Cappelen selection. The presidency has split in this position, and there are three minority proposals. I would like to present the proposal of Vice-Presidents Svein Harberg, Morten Wold and the signatures. We will show you the thorough work done by the Cappelen selection, and the management of the Storting of proposals from the selection in May 2021. The size then concurred with the proposal from the selection that the overall wage trend in Norway is the most relevant indicator for assessing changes in evidence, and that the aggregate representatives, state councils and prime minister should have equal percentage regulation based on the annual central wage settlement. With the criteria that have now been used for the selection of evidence, it will be an ongoing principle that the setting of the selection will be followed up by decisions in the Storting. These members point out that 2020 was a very special and demanding year for many because of actions that follow from covid-19, and we think it would be right to refrain from regulating evidence this year. These members further point out that the evidence-finding committee will present its proposal as soon as possible after the annual salary settlement has been completed. A regulation now will be in sync with such annual adjustments. The following proposals are made by the following members: ‘Regulation of remuneration for grossing-up representatives shall take place as soon as possible after the salary settlement in 2022 after re-alignment from the remuneration committee, disregarding the trend in wages and salaries in 2020.’;» The other members of the Presidency will do well for the other proposals. I would like to mention proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then I will go on to Document 8 proposal from Björn Moxnes, Marie Sneve Martinussen, Hege Bae Nyholt, Seher Aydar, Geir Jørgensen, Mimir Kristjánsson, Tobias Drevland Lund and Sofie Marhaug from 12 October 2021 on cuts in compensation for depositors and government members. The plurality of the presidency, all except for the fifth Vice-President Ingrid Fiskaa, does not support the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 of the draft representative. I refer here to comments and suggestions in the Innst. 123 S for 2021-2022. The minority in the presidency, the fifth vice-president, Ingrid Fiskaa, refers to the comments of the Inner East. 123 S for 2021-2022, which is largely in line with proposal No. 1 and 2 by Mr Raudt, and proposals that are responsible for and concretely put forward proposal No. 3 on the winding-up of the evidence selection. In the case of proposal No: 4 in the proposal for a representative, on the performance of retirement and survivors' pensions, a single presidency shows that an external selection has been set up to go through all financial arrangements for gross domestic product representatives. The Presidency believes in this context that, at this stage, it is not advisable to propose changes to the rules on retirement and benefits in the event of retirement. I would therefore urge the Stortinget not to adopt the representative proposal from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e317	Other Vice President Nils T. Bjørke has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e322	First, thank you to Nils T. Bjørke for a thorough review. The stork is now in the process of cleaning up and working to regain the trust of the Norwegian people we are to serve. A unanimous presidency has therefore given a mandate to an external selection, broadly composed of relevant actors, to ensure that all the arrangements of the grubbing-up representatives are fair, have the legitimacy of the people and are not to be misunderstood, and at the same time that we have arrangements to ensure representation from all over the country, and of people with different backgrounds. The National Audit Office has been asked to carry out investigations into our systems, and we have put in place an internal audit in Stortinget – all in order to ensure good control mechanisms. This has also been agreed by the Presidency. Then there are some areas where there are different views, and I respect that. The fact that the Workers' Party will freeze the remuneration of members of the general government until further notice is about two things: We will await the report from the sample, which will go through all the schemes. We will wait for the government to present its review of executive wages in the state. In the case of government executives, it's not that we want the Storting to look at government executives' salaries, on the contrary, but if we want to clean up and do something about the increase in differences, which government leaders' wages have contributed to, we cannot point to everyone else and not ourselves. And we believe that the order here, before we possibly deal with the adjustment of remuneration, is important for confidence in Stortinget. I am quite sure that the citizens are concerned that the members of the Storting will make a good profit, and I am sure that the inhabitants see how important a job the Stortinge is doing every day to stand up for the workers and businesses, that many of my colleagues travel around the country and beach to meet the inhabitants, businesses and communities. I am equally sure that the citizens have great expectations of us as politicians. Now we have to clean up, and we have to do something about increasing pay differentials in Norway. That is why the Workers' Party is now proposing to freeze wages and salaries. The order is important. I shall therefore also deal with the proposals of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e346	Grandfather Masud Gharahkhani mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e351	Snylters, cheaters, and lawbreakers are to be taken, and they are to be punished in such a way as to defame — it is also the case for depositors. But today the media present us all as bandits to dig for themselves. It affects all political Norway. It increases the political bias, and some of us make enemies of the people. It's a collective punishment, and no one dares to take it again. But I dare – and I will take it again. The truth is that all my co-representatives are hardworking representatives with faith and willingness to make society better for everyone. Majority representatives most use evenings to give talks, participate in debates, be active in local policy, in state governments, national governments and at national level. A deposit representative works without any additions of any kind. You have not paid overtime, you have no compensation for inconvenient working hours, and you are expected to be available at any time. We are exposed in the media, and many of us experience hot and even threats. A more guaranteed temporary employment should also be sought for a long time. Politicians on the left tend to refer to the Working Environment Act, but not today. The Working Environment Act does not apply to wholesale representatives. Today it is more politically correct to be morally offended and indignant about their greedy colleagues. But talking down on their colleagues and their responsibilities and work efforts is not honorable – it is disrespectful. They stand in front of ‘a race to the bottom’. They have conducted private wage negotiations at the parties' meeting rooms. But why $800,000? Why not NOK 700,000 or NOK 600 000? That's a lot of money, that. Facts: Everybody in LO's management earns more than 1 million. kr. Members have a number of advantages and benefits, such as insurance, legal assistance, education scholarships and cheaper mortgages. They're going to have to do that for me, but that's the facts. 300 top executives in the state earn more than the prime minister, and the prime minister makes 1.7 million. kr. Several thousand employees in the public sector serve more than us. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed that management wages or salaries exceed 1 million. is not unusual in the office, rather the opposite. In addition, there are a number of goodies that particularly belong to the diplomatic corps, such as free apartments when they are out, and that they can rent out the apartment when they are at home. The Minister of Defence has informed me of the same thing. In the Ministry of Defence there are several who make well more than 1 million. kr. Some personal wage agreements are even concluded. What about the journalist class sitting on my left-hand side? There's just one of them here today, which is also interesting. What is their salary level, and what benefits do they receive? These are wages paid by taxpayers. It's in glass. Editors and journalists most stand out undisputedly, as the French Sun King, Louis on the 14th, as the legislative, executive and judicial power. No one at Stortinget is asking for big payrolls or other unfairness. The only thing we mean qualified to do is to get an adjustment to our salary that is in line with everyone else in the public sector – no more or less. It should be a matter of course. If the amount is NOK 10,000, NOK 50,000, NOK 70 000, NOK 80 000 or so large that we pass SEK 1 million. kr, is completely irrelevant. We're dealing with what everyone else in the public sector gets. It criticizes the media, and no one dares to oppose it. Now it's time for us to stand up for each other, show that we respect each other and take seriously the work we do. What we do for the country is important. And then we're also going to show that it's important, and it's also happening through our remuneration. I am amazed at the big business president, Gharakhani, who himself has increased his salary by over 750,000 kroner. We don't hear a word about it. He's going to represent the whole Stortinget, he's going to be our ombudsman, but I haven't experienced it. He cuts down on the allowances of the staging representatives and our possible benefits and benefits. The contract to which he refers shall not look at remuneration – it shall look at benefits. Nevertheless, the Labour Party, as he represents up here, will wait for a report that will not look at what we are dealing with today. It's unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e376	The President will only point out that the wording ‘even increased its salary’ may be misleading. He entered a position with a higher salary. But otherwise it was right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e381	The majority does not decide to increase our own salary today. It's a good sign, because for many years, it's almost automatic that the evidence to the government representatives and government members has to be increased by large amounts, so that the distance between the populace and the majority of the people has gotten bigger and bigger. Over time, large-scale representatives have become part of the deciduous highest-paid group in society, and we could have passed the million by good margin with a decision today. So that's not going to happen. When this doesn't happen, it's because everyone here sees that it's not right - not right now, at least, because someone just wants to postpone and hope to recover the lost if not for too long. I think I'm underestimating the serious crisis of trust, not just the Biggest, but the whole community is in it. Too many people have lost confidence that they will be heard and taken seriously, and that those who control and control understand how they feel – with good reason, unfortunately. SV will not just suspend. We think it's time to take real action to reduce the pay gap between elected and ordinary people – not because big-time representatives don't do an important job and have a big responsibility, because it has us. I would even say that many people here do a pretty good job – and they hardly work as few hours as they do. But think -- we're not alone in that. The concerns I had in my job as a teacher were not less. The bad conscience of finished work was no less. The responsibility I knew was no less, it was of another kind. Still, I did my job, even for significantly lower wages. Someone's worried that people in the upper social layers, those who already feel a lot, should refuse to be nominated to a big place unless the big pay can correspond to anything else they would have received. I'm not so concerned about it, because it's not the highly paid groups that are underrepresented in this room and in other political positions. Those who are not well represented are those with short education and low income. It is also in these groups the confidence in the political system is lowest and the distance is greatest, both real and experienced. When SV today proposes to reduce the amount of evidence and introduce a new model that constantly ensures that staging representatives do not belong to the 10 pst. The highest wage in this country is a small but very important contribution to reducing this distance. Although we all want salt in the grass here, it will be a step in the direction of having a little more ground contact, a little bit more indication of how ordinary people are doing. That's what I mean, both us and democracy are good at. With that, I take up the proposal that SV has made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e394	Fifth Vice President Ingrid Fiska has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e399	It's unhealthy for democracy with a million-dollar class of politicians. Today, the size has a direction choice with three alternatives. One is a higher politician's salary as soon as possible, so that we move even more from people most. The second is still frozen in the politicians' wages, a foot in the ground. The third is to cut off the sky-high politicians' wages, for which Red has long worked. I don't think everyone outside this hall knows about Storting's remuneration committee. It consists of a retired janitor, a former stock exchange director and Professor von der Fehr. They suggest what big business representatives, government members and the Prime Minister should serve. In the autumn, the sample presented a proposal to compensate for a self-imposed wage freeze by adopting a double wage increase this year. The selection also claims in its setting that they proposed this bonus on a so-called professional basis. I don't think any ordinary people are fooled by this alleged professional basis. There is also a gap in the myth that Storting’s salary is determined on an objective, professional basis from an independent scientific selection. Red's view is that the Storting must put down the remuneration committee. We decide on our own salary, then we get to take responsibility for it ourselves, not push this sample in front of us and point it out as an excuse for the salary increases. Today, unfortunately, the bulk of the population goes in to kick the ball back to the same sample. So the Right Party, the Progressive Party and the Centre are asking for a new proposal for consideration and that this should be done as soon as possible. The urgency we now see, that is, when it comes to increasing our own salary, I have the benefit of looking at other things, such as: cleaning up commuting and double holiday pay. Then the presidency goes against all changes because you have to look at the whole thing and take a very good time. The same obviously does not apply to raising your own salary. A lot of people notice that. The majority must take responsibility for restoring confidence in the elected representatives. A good start to it is that, as elected representatives, we do not ensure that we move even further from those who have elected us to the Stortinget. I think a lot of people have noticed that the Center Party went from talking in and out about bringing down the differences, to then in the election campaign to open up to enter into conciliation with the right-hand side of important issues, and now to doing so in Stortinget in terms of cooperation to ensure the fastest possible wage increase for the big business representatives. Then it is nice and happy that the Workers' Party shows moderation and goes in for further wage freezes. I think it would have dressed both government parties to support Red's intention to reduce the difference between our salary and the general salary level in Norway. The model we want is a model where the allowances are cut to a maximum of one and a half times the median income, approx. $820,000, and then we're going to follow the annual change in heads if you earn right in the middle of the tree. In this way, we link politicians' wages to ordinary people's income and wage development and break with what has been the trend in the last decade, where politicians' wages follow the income of those who earn the most, and we get a political class that moves from people the most. We also want to cut back on salary. Arguing governments are in a great hurry to cut the daily allowance level. The same haste should be seen when it comes to the pay back for top politicians. We also want to abolish the double holiday pay scheme. There has been a discussion, as we have recorded, about shortening the compensation this year against earned holiday money last year. It was a good initiative, so we follow that up today. Now we're going to bring down the differences in society, and then maybe it's not a very bad start to start with ourselves. I'll bring that up with Red's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e428	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e433	Fair or not: there is much to be said about the criticisms directed at the use of our different schemes by the big business representatives. But it does not change the fact that the trust crisis we face outside the Storting is serious and must be handled as very serious. The remuneration received by the representatives of the Grand Duchy shall not prevent people from making elections to the Grand Duchy. It is essential that it is attractive to become a magnificent representative in order for us to be able to develop our democracy. But the remuneration that big business representatives receive is also to be seen as fair and fair by those who will choose us. That is why it is right that the Stortinget today does not accept a salary increase for the big ones, but that we make it quite clear that we should think carefully before we decide how this should be done. Increasing the salary now would be sending a completely wrong signal in a difficult cleaning situation. What we have to do is, first of all, to make two things quite clear: First of all, it's how your pay is determined. That is why, in the Greens/EFA, it makes sense to remove a remuneration committee which, in practice, creates further ambiguity about who is responsible and on which premises pay are set. It is more neat that it is clear that these are decisions that – at least initially – are in the presidency, so at least everyone knows what is going on. The second thing we need is a framework for remuneration. It's obviously a reasonable idea to change from percentage adjustment to crown adjustment, so we avoid the mechanism that leads to the systematic withdrawal of those who make a lot of money from before. It is also reasonable to set a ceiling on where the gross wages should be in the overall pay room. That is why the Green Party will support the SV's proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e448	Now the representative Bjørke has also explained the Right's view of the presidency, and I'm going to bring some deepenings in the experience we have in the Right – also the one I have – as members of the Norwegian National Assembly, us 169. Language is important. Languages can be precise, and languages can be very unpresidual. When I listen to the representatives of Moxnes and Fiskaa, I have to say that it is fully possible in this room to be populist and to be populist rhetorical, but I expect you to know the difference between apples and pears. It is that wages and salaries are two different concepts and have two different contents. We don't have a salary on Stortinget. No one has a salary here -- not by the elected representatives. The employees have it – yes. We don't have a job, we have a job. We have no working hours. We are 169 responsible representatives, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. We serve the people, and I think the voters are wise. I sat in the Cappelen Committee, the remuneration committee, which I hear some representatives here refer to as retired coryphians. I am an intensive nurse, I have been a hospital director, I have had an 8-16 job, I have had regulated working hours. I don't have that right here. I have stood at the beginning of life and the end of life. It's stressful. It's demanding. That's the same thing here, but there's no regulated working time here. This is a mission of trust, and I think the voters understand perfectly well that it requires that me and we, the listening populace, are faced with the challenges our society faces, not only nationally but also internationally. We need to recruit from all over the country – unemployed, students, nurses, lawyers, teachers, forest workers, doctors and journalists from all over the country. When we worked in the Cappelen Committee, we also saw the North. Are we getting divorced? Is it so that Norwegian elected representatives – we 169 – who have been here over the years, and who are coming forward, are different from one another, are sky high in remuneration for a non-regulated working time, for a job that has been demonstrated? No, we're pretty similar. The agreed understanding is that we're there to be able to recruit from all walks of life, that we don't have a regulated working time, and that we can say that the Nordics have a fairly similar understanding of how this is going to be. The committee also concluded in its recommendation that it is wise for anyone other than us to look at how remuneration should be set, but it was also quite clear when we proposed it for the presidency and the Stortinget to agree, that it is not called the pay committee or the pay committee, but that it is called the remuneration committee. This is precisely to be precise in the language – that bigots representatives, elected representatives, do not have a salary, but remuneration, do not have a job, but have a job, live by trust and live temporarily on trust for four years at a time, and that the voters can replace us if the trust is failing. We don't have a work environment law, we don't have a holiday supplement. And if it's the case that the representatives of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party say that the hourly salary of the elected representatives on the Stortinget should not be a minimum wage – then you can calculate it. It is completely wrong to extend and pursue such reasoning. Then it's okay to have a unified understanding of what the level of remuneration should be, because otherwise apples, pears, plums become exactly what they are – different. I expect you to ask yourself when you're going to clean up and you want to look at wages in the state: is it really that you want the Storting to take over the government's responsibility? Because if you were to compare yourself with government executives, our compensation would go to heaven, and there's no merit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e463	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e468	I don't think anyone in this room is in doubt that sitting on the Storting is an important task. I don't think anyone in this room is in doubt that we who are sitting here are working hard. I don't think anyone in this room -- those who commute, at least -- doesn't miss their kids every week. But we're not alone in working hard in this country. That's how it sometimes sounds when you hear big-time politicians talk about the workload that's here in this room. It is such that the average retirement age for a nurse in Norway is 57 years. In other words, the average nurse in Norway has worked so hard that she has been unemployed five years before retirement. It's a hard job. I miss my kids every week I'm in the commuting home, but I come from a town where half of the kids have their parents, their fathers, offshore for two to three weeks in a stretch. It is therefore not unique in Norway to have a high workload. There is therefore nothing unique about working hard in Norway. A cook in this country lives on average ten years shorter — ten years shorter — than the vast majority in office occupations. It's a hard profession. If you were to use the logic of the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right to pay people out of the hardest jobs, the greatest workload, then the cook and the nurse should earn twice that of us, and not the other way around, because it's hard jobs, it's hard jobs. I have never heard such a touching and genuine commitment from any representative in this room as what I heard from the representative Tybring-Gjedde of the Progress Party when he was to defend his own and his colleagues' wages. If the representatives in this room had shown the same indignation, the same commitment and the same violent reaction when we talk about the social security of people in this country, when we talk about the social assistance rates of people in this country, when we talk about the minimum pension in this country, then I think Norway would have been a significantly better place to live. The representative Tybring-Gjedde said that now we have to stand up for each other, but I reject that solidarity, I reject that I am sitting in this Chamber to be in solidarity with my colleagues and co-representatives, and I sincerely hope that the same applies to my co-representatives towards me. We're sitting here because we're going to be solid with our voters. We're sitting here to stand up for our voters, not to stand up for each other. Let's remind ourselves that the voters don't make a million dollars. kr or 800000 kr or 700000 kr, they serve on average 400000–500000 kr. It's the voters we're going to compare with, and not all kinds of top leaders in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e479	Do the country’s gamblers seriously feel that they serve too badly? I think the Right Party, the Advance Party, and the Center Party are all real that we're going to give ourselves over 1 million. kr a year to sit on the Stortinget? We've been through two years with pandemics, where many have paid the price of this crisis with uncertainty, cut wages and permits. We have record power prices that eat people's wallets, and up in this sits the Stortinget and wants to decide higher pay for itself. We have a salary most people in Norway can only dream of. Storing politicians earn better than 95 pst. by the population. That means that if you go into a room and see a poacher, you can be sure that it's the highest-paid person in that room. Do we really want it like that? Do we want that distance – that we, who are elected to represent the people of Norway, are to live in a world with a completely different economic space than all, most of them in the country? The right-hand side often tends in this hall or in the election campaign to be incredibly concerned with how taxpayers' money is spent. But there's one place they think it's okay that we use a little bit more of it, and that's when we're going to give ourselves higher compensation or pay. You argue that it's just an adjustment to the pay growth of everyone else. But big-time politicians don't have any jobs. We are representatives of the people. We in SV have been fighting for a long time for the gross pay to fall, and I must say I had thought that after all the scandals that have marked the Stortinget the last time, we who are sitting in this hall had understood that it is inconvenient to grant ourselves even higher wages. We're the goat that fits the oat sack, and then the Storting should be especially aware of how this is perceived by people. The size depends on trust. We're chosen by people to represent them. If we freeze the salary at today's level, we still have a good salary. If we cut the salary by $100,000, we still have a good salary. If we cut our salary by $200,000, we still have a good salary. But that's not going to happen today, because a small majority of the Progress Party, the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party believe that 987 997 kroner per year is too low a salary for big business representatives. That's not good. Today we could have decided to cut our own salary, and I hope we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e496	I want to draw a slightly wider picture of what is the Workers' Party's position. It's that, as trust elected by our voters, we have an obligation to make sure that the arrangements we have, trust, have legitimacy in the population, that they are fair, but also that they provide opportunities for everyone to become a magnificence representative, wherever they come from, where they live, or how much they serve. Therefore, we believe that the remuneration must be seen in conjunction with others, that the fees must be seen in conjunction with other remunerations. That's why we want to postpone the decision on actual fees until we get the other arrangements on the table. The Labour Party also pursues a policy of solidarity in order to balance the differences elsewhere in society. We are committed to ensuring that those with the lowest income receive higher income and that those with high incomes are taxed somewhat more. That's exactly why we also have to look at ourselves. We need a thorough review, and we need to look at the arrangements together. So I want to answer Tybring-Gjedde, who is of the opinion that the Grand President is knocking down on co-representatives. I could not have disagreed more. There is a united presidency that is behind us having to look at our arrangements. There is a united presidency that has put down all the selections that are now going to go through these arrangements, and there is a united presidency that is just concerned that we should increase confidence in us who have been given the privilege of being trusted by our voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e505	Storing representatives serve better than 95 pst. by the population, and there is a problem in so many ways. I've met for three days now, and on the three days I've served almost as much as my fellow students live on in the course of a whole month. And not enough with that: I have had access to a canteen that is much cheaper than the one I have access to at the university, to cover all travels and to free parking in the middle of Oslo Centre, even though the annual salary here is seven times higher than what I manage as a student in a year. To everyone in this room, you're actually doing less than 1 million. kr of the year – I have threatened you! The party for most people has apparently forgotten that most people can't decide how much they should earn, and that the Storting should be very careful about using the power we have in this room, to make life easier for ourselves, while there are so many challenges out there – power crisis, child poverty, etc. For what does it really say about ordinary people's income when those who put the benefits, the blue-necks and don't manage to live on the same amount of themselves? It's increasing the pay of politicians to the point where we make more than 1 million. kr in the year, is a bad idea initially, but it is an even worse idea when the rug is two years of pandemic, where many Northmen have lived under great economic uncertainty. At this point in the debate, those who believe that big business representatives should earn so much, say something like this is the same increase that the public sector has in percent. Yes, but the difference is that 4 pst. increase in the service of a staging representative is just below NOK 40000, while 4 pst. the increase in study aid is NOK 5000. So it's going to be an eight-fold increase in heads and ears. Gross wages and salaries should not be increased or frozen. It should be lowered – and strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e516	How much is trust worth? The crisis of confidence in which the Stortinget is now standing is about much more than electricity prices and commuting homes. It's about a lot more than the Storting. The irritation and the mind that comes now are stronger than before. Every single thing becomes a symbol of something bigger and something more important: a society where the distance between people and people elected is increasing. Politicians are alerting themselves at the same time as enjoying millions of wages. So it's obvious that the crowns the salary increase is going to cost are going to be a drop in a state budget, but the symbolism is going to be a river wave. Because while ordinary people get it tighter, it goes so it laughs at Oslo Exchange. That's why this case is just a small part of something much bigger and much more important, namely the growing differences in our country. The answer to that should be a completely different distribution of power and resources, and we who have the power and resources to do something about it, have to go ahead. SV says a blank no to million wages. Historically, Stortinget has benefited from a high level of confidence in the population, but it is not obvious that it continues to do so. All politicians fighting for a society with small differences and strong communities have a responsibility to contribute to it. But then we can't be subtracting them that we're going to represent. Biggest politicians should never be among the 10 best paid percentages in Norway, because the trust we're chosen for, and the trust that our democracy relies on is worth more than any pay. SV wants more people to participate in democracy and more people to believe in the benefits of engaging. But the distance between people and people elected stands in the way of it. This proposal is one step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e529	I have to comment on the point of being hardworking. It's nice to be hardworking, and there's a lot of people in this country. People work very hard very often, every day, but most people don't earn near what's the payroll – far from it. Most people are not close to being able to decide as much about their lives as we can. Most of them aren't around. So to the point that we should stand up for each other. Let me be honest, I'm not here to stand up for politicians. We're here to stand up for people -- people who've been overlooked year after year, people who have to turn on every single penny, people who have bills they can't pay, people who carry our welfare on worn backs and knees, people who need politicians to stand up for them. That's what should be our priority, and that's the most important thing we can do as politicians. It's very interesting that we can stand here and discuss how much we should earn, and forget what a great privilege it is – it's a little interesting. For example: the district in which I live, Søndre Nordstrand, is the average wage less than half of what is the gross salary. My neighbors also work very hard, and my neighbors have nothing to say about the salary they have. My neighbors can't even decide that our bus should go on Sundays. So little opportunity they have to decide about their own everyday life. I would encourage my colleagues in here to remember that the pulpit we have in front of us is a privilege. I understand that you can say a lot of toes about how hard the work is – you work without working time and you stand on – but we do it because we think we can change the world for the better, in different ways, so far. But this is a privilege that we should not undermine. We also have to remember that we can't run from people; we have to represent. Because then we suddenly get a completely different reality, and today, unfortunately, is a good example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e540	Let me first say that no one with a seat in this room can be said to be underpaid. Compared to other parliaments and national living costs in the Nordic region, no one can be said to be particularly overpaid. Today, it is not the amount of any increase in remuneration that is our main concern, but the principle that a single group of people should be refused to participate in the annual wage development for four years, because a few have made one or more mistakes in one or more legislations to which the country’s grubbing-up representatives are subject. Let me be clear that violations of the rules that apply are not to be tolerated and should of course be charged and settled in. However, it is important to remember that the vast majority of us 169 representatives who have been given the confidence to act on behalf of our voters in this house do so in an exemplary way in complying with the legislation. However, today we are discussing whether there should be a freeze on wages or even a fall in wages. I would like to see what other group of workers Red would accept that a 20 pst was imposed. reduction of wages after the signature of the contract of employment or the group of employees of the Workers' Party, with LO in place at the table of the central government of the Party, would accept that no adjustment of their salaries would be made in four years. Policy framework conditions are involved, both in this Chamber and not least in the fields of comments. It's hard for many of us to accept that we're almost like a paria cast to count for some who are hammering on the keyboard about what gold-edge arrangements we have, and what a lucrative life we live here in the service of democracy. It is relatively far from the truth, but there are no limits to the demeaning characteristics of politicians who make themselves available to the country in red, white and blue. It also costs to have a well-developed democracy. Today the news came that Norway was last year the most democratic country in the world, according to the annual democracy index of The Economist Intelligence Unit. We're supposed to be happy about that. It is said that you get the politicians you deserve. Common to them is that everyone does the best they can, whether they are young and forward-looking, elderly and routine, semi-skilled robbers or experienced entrepreneurs, whether they are young children's parents or in the grandparents' regeneration. Everyone is serving democracy, the Norwegian people and the country. This is why Norwegian politicians deserve to participate in normal wage developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e554	I have our elected representatives for almost 25 years, at all levels, in the municipality, state and now on the Stortinget. I was looking forward to coming to Stortinget, to the National Assembly, in order to do a job for the whole country. I just have to admit that I almost want to go home because of the decline of the retribution that is taking place from our own president and a media player who is hammering off our integrity and our role as members of the National Assembly. It's not just easy to be elected. One day I got a letter in the mail, the style of Frank Edvard Sve, Hjellane 41, 6200 Stranda, saying, "You're talking about being big and stupid in the kung fu, you're fucking... I'm not gonna say anything more because it's not parliamentary language. And it said, "You should have got a nude shot." I have, of course, provided this to the police a long time ago. That's what we, as big-time representatives and populists, meet because the reconstruction of being elected to the people is constantly being dragged down. It's about time, and I expect, my own president, too, for the president of this house is also my president, the president of all the representatives, to start speaking about our role as elected representatives in this house, so I don't want to go home again every week, the drawer, sad actually, about being part of something that gets hammered off. – I’m a little emotional now, because I’m actually so sad that I’m almost crying about it. It's so bad. We, as big-time representatives, government members and the presidency, must begin to stand up for democracy, stand up for what we are so proud of, do a job to see that we are actually the world to be in this house. People come to me a few times and say we feel so good. The first thing I'm asking is to get their phone number, their e-mail, because I want them on a popular list. No, no, they shouldn't, they'll be quiet right away. We're doing a job for the Norwegian people, for all the inhabitants of Norway, and we're going to be proud of that job. That's the case that I think we have to go back. There is a great role for the media and must stop this meddling with politicians. When it comes to those who make mistakes, the presidency must clean up. It's okay, but the great crowd of big-time representatives and populists do this because they're happy in their country, happy in their municipality, happy in their state.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e567	The representative Morten Wold of the Progress Party asks a question about who Red wants to go down in pay. We in Red are firmly committed to what we've always done, that a worker deserves his salary, and we're the foremost ones to promote the demands of and cooperate with the workers on pay issues. But here it's not about workers. Here it is about a well-born and privileged elite, a class of politicians, who year after year sit and can add to their wealth a salary that is now approaching a million. It comes from this pulpit, series on series, year after year, petty cuts that hit the economy of ordinary people out there, the ones who have chosen us in here. And when the situation is that we have a real wage drop in many professions, and in agriculture in particular, the least we can do – as responsible, popularly elected policymakers – is to start with ourselves. A worker deserves his salary. Storing politicians have enough, and it is quite reassuring to see that there is solidarity to be found within this quite privileged class of high pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e576	In addition to what we've been discussing, mainly, today, about cutting back on the remuneration of big business representatives, there's also been a recent discussion about the holiday money scheme for big business representatives. There, Stortinget has just taken advantage of the ambiguity that the representative of the Right spoke about, namely that the depositors are in a way half-way workers and half-way in employment. It has been used to create a system of double holiday pay, which means that you will not get a vacation but a regular allowance for all the twelve months of the year – the opposite of the usual employee has – but when you are finished, you will still have to keep the compensation in June if you were on the Stortinget. So you're going to double up. I don't think it's possible to explain to any ordinary people in this country why big-time representatives, who, in addition to having an extremely good salary, are going to double their holiday pay. That's why our proposal is to cut into that arrangement and start curtailing already from the summer coming. It makes no sense that Stortinget should give me full compensation for the summer that is coming, when I can get holiday money at the same time that I have earned from the year before. All insured people in this country are familiar with the term ‘shortening’ — for each and every time someone grants an increased benefit to insured persons, it should be cut off against the other social benefits they receive. Curtailment is a rule that should also apply to depositors. If you have a holiday money from your previous job, it should be curtailed against the fee you get at Stortinget. Then I almost have to answer the representative Frank Sve. The representative, Sve, is standing here crying when we discuss the pay of politicians. I've never seen the representative sobbing when we've discussed social security, when we've discussed housing support, when we've discussed social assistance, when we've discussed the Nav scandal. No, then the representative is not Sve on the crying, but when the representative is Sve's own million salary that is being discussed, it's very foolish. I fully agree with the representative Sve that the degradation of reputation must end, but those who believe that what builds up the image of Storting are the criticism we get in the media, they must believe again. The reason why Storting's reputation is broken is that many of the representatives in this room have abused the arrangements they have received. It has to be cleaned up. The reason why the reputation is broken down is that the Storting has steadily increased its own schemes over many years, improving its own remuneration. It has to be cleaned up. So I fully agree with the representative Sve: now it's about getting up for democracy and returning to trust in the Storting as the most important assembly in our country. And the best way to do that is to cut off the allowances of big business representatives, so that they approach the pay and the reality that ordinary people live with and in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e589	As the President-in-Office of the Council, I am proud every day to receive international visits or to have the opportunity to talk about democracy in Norway, because we are the best democracy in the world. It's about trust. And one of the reasons we do much better than very many other countries under the pandemic is that we have the welfare state, that we have the opportunity to provide workers and businesses for a difficult time. But the welfare state needs a well-functioning democracy, and we have that in Norway. So every day I talk about this great democracy, where we can work together across political boundaries to the benefit of the nation. I never throw down on my colleagues; I'm talking up the great democracy we have. Then I agree with the representative Sve, and this is something I spend a lot of time on, and as I've said, I, as the prime minister, want to have as a priority, and it's taking a settlement with hot, hateful remarks and threats. We're not going to accept that! No one should be pressured into silence. It is important in our democracy that we not only have criticism of power, but also that people have the opportunity to express themselves. That's all that's going on. It's a lot of simple things, and we don't spend time with them in the presidency. It's a national audit that's going to go through things back in time, it's investigation and tax control. But as far as the road is concerned, for which the presidency has been responsible, we have agreed to go through all the arrangements, precisely to ensure that it is fair, has legitimacy and is not to be misunderstood – while providing a good representation, no matter where in the country you come from, and no matter what background you have, which is a strength for Norwegian democracy. So to the case, which is about compensation: if someone has heard about Google, and I suppose that's what several people have done, you can do a little search for signed and "reparation". Then you will see that it was signed, together with the then Wraith representative Karin Andersen, who took the initiative for the freezing of wages and the overall review already in 2019, long before I took on my new role. I am concerned that my colleagues will earn well – I have never taken any initiative to cut compensation – but let me add to my history in this matter, which has been known for a long time: I am a social democrat, and my starting point in both 2019 and now is that we as leaders must be good examples when we are going to clean up, and that we cannot point to everyone else, but not ourselves. That is what it is about when the Workers' Party has that position in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e604	I have great respect for this debate and for the fact that these are divided opinions. Nevertheless, when the debate begins to deal with who is concerned about the social responsibility, of those who are struggling, and of those who are not getting help: is there one thing I have been concerned about all my political life, it is actually those sitting at the bottom of the table. It's about making sure to lift people up. It's about Ellen, it's about Lasse, it's about Christian – about people who don't get their medicine, because the political majority doesn't want them to get that medicine. It's about getting drug users better. It's about pensioners actually getting an increase in their pension, not cutting it short, etc. Then I also want to say something when someone is a little tall and dark – and I have a lot of respect for the debate, and that you can mean things about pay. But some of those who are very tall and dark, namely SV and Red, are here now talking about political compensation. Then I think they should talk to their colleagues in Telemark, who in 2015 felt it was so important to get into the county committee that we had to expand the county committee with more representatives to get those politicians in and get high remuneration. It's in many ways okay to be tall and dark, but then you should also know what you've actually done. The representatives from both SV and Red sat and looked down on the table when the debate on extending the county committee went on. Perhaps the representative of Moxnes should also talk to someone in his own secretariat, as at the time was one of the state politicians. It's okay, but I'm being provoked. For me, what I'm burning for, what makes me do with this, is about injustice -- do something about it, make sure we lift people, and make sure that we give better relationships to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e615	One might be engaged in such a debate, but I didn't mention in my previous post political deities in one word. Then I thought it would be very special when the representative from Red uses his speech to criticize me as a person. I actually didn't expect that. I didn't think it was anything special, simply because I'm talking about the reputation of the peoples of all Norway. What is important is that one has a good reputation and that we are in one way up for democracy. That was my point. Then a person can certainly discuss the evidence and the so-called graceful, as some talk about. Yes, there is a difference between the signs, which travel 1,100 km/h to come home again, and those who can go in with slippers in the Storting from the street. One might like to discuss power in the apartment or whatever it is, but I expect me to travel 1,100 km, to be treated the same as those who wear slippers – that's a little clumsy to say, but – right in front of the Stortinget and live here in the vicinity. We need to be treated the same way. That's a point. One must be a little careful with the rhetoric that I also think has come from the presidency when it applies to the good. What's nice? Then you have to think about what I just said. We are representatives from North Norway to the far south of the country, including from Oslo, spread throughout Norway, and have different powers to operate what we have here in Stortinget. It's important to keep going. I expect everyone to be treated the same, regardless of their background, and that one has a basis that allows one to pursue policies at Stortinget. You talk all the time about those who are low-paid or who have a salary under the payroll representatives, but there are also representatives who actually go down in pay when they get into the Stortinget, because they're burning to run politics. You can't forget it, too. We want people from all over the population – everything from directors to regular workers, no matter what people have to do with it. It is an important democratic principle, and then it must also be based on a level of evidence that is justifiable. I sincerely hope that the presidency can also help to bring down this pressure on the debate about so-called ‘fine good’ – but I would like to clean up, as I said before. I also hope that Red can be real and not attack me as a person on things I have not actually said.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e628	The representative Mimir Kristjánsson has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e633	I find it a little surprising to hear the representative Frank Sves wonder that a debate on political compensation is about political compensation, because that is exactly what we are discussing now. These are concrete proposals on political compensation, not all sorts of other things. I believe that the representative Sve and I share the same respect for both the Stortinget, for our colleagues here, for everyone, but we have quite the opposite view of how to combat political contempt in this country. The representative, Sve, seems to believe that it is when the media write critically about the schemes of the staging representatives, or when politicians from Red and SV criticise the schemes of the staging representatives, that the problem arises. In other words, if everyone kept their mouths shut about it, there would be no problem. That's not right. The problem arises because the arrangements are unfair. What neither the representative Sve nor anyone else has responded to yet is why it should not be possible to do this job for 800,000 kroner instead of 1 million kroner. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e642	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e659	This year's Document 1 of the National Audit Office includes 233 audit reports. The review shows that the state also works well in times of crisis. It's good to know. The national accounts and annual accounts are essentially correct. The consistent finding is that the central government is following up the recommendations of the National Audit Office. In 2020, the country spent more than 300 billion dollars. kr of the oil fund. The money went towards increasing the cost of popular security, health, municipalities and county municipalities. Then we all know that budget changes were made along the way, while large parts of the state are at home. Then one might think that then increased the risk of errors compared to a normal year, but that has not been the case. All the annual accounts are without material errors and deficiencies, with the exception of the Defence. The fact that there is an error in the defence's annual accounts has been a repetition over several years. This means that the Storting does not receive a proper report on how the appropriations have been used. Despite very clear instructions from Stortinget, these were the same errors in 2020 and 2019. It is therefore an overall committee which underlines the responsibility of the Council of States to ensure that these errors are corrected. The Committee will follow the case and assumes that the Stortinget is informed of the work on accounting practice in next year's Document 1. The pandemic situation has made it difficult for the National Audit Office to revise classified information. Although it has been attempted by the Defence and Defence Council, it is not a complete revision of the entire annual accounts of the Defence and Defence Council. Then the Riksrevision presents five new criticisms. One of them is a significant breach of administrative legislation by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Then we've got our own case on the e-Health Directorate. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is a breach of the cash principle regarding the holding of outstanding balances with the Treasury. That's what they say. For the Directorate for eHealth, the offences concern non-compliance with the Acquisitions Act and the Economic Code. The Riksrevision then points out that it is highly critical that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries has not ensured that a new registry platform in the Brønnøsund Registers has been delivered in line with Stortingen’s regulations. The management of information security in the Brønn Island Health Registers is still not good enough. The project has been delayed for several years and is expected to be more expensive than planned. Two of the criticisms relate to the university and higher education sectors. In one case, the Riksrevision believes that it is critical that state universities and colleges to a small extent ensure that real costs are borne by research projects, and that it is also critical that research institutions in the sector do not do enough to ensure that research complies with the Ethics Act, standards and rules. The last of the criticisms is that the Ministry of Finance and the tax rate do not sufficiently ensure that compensation for VAT is paid correctly to municipalities and intercommunal companies. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Riksrevision for their good work and also for the way in which they have renewed Document 1. It makes it easier to work with both for us and for the audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e678	The Chairman of the Committee presented the criticisms well, but I still want to go through a little of what we, as the Committee, have also looked at. In 2020, 1867 billion were used. NOK in the country, i.e. almost NOK 350 000 per capita. It's a huge number, which can be hard to understand. The National Audit Service has done a significant job of reviewing 233 annual accounts and ensuring that the accounts for these 1867 billion. kr is ok. I would like to say it is reassuring that the Riksrevision finds that the government accounts for 2020 are essentially accurate and presented. It's extra good to know, given that we had to make extra appropriations in 2020 to adapt to a pandemic. As a consequence, significant amounts were allocated outside the ordinary budgetary procedures. We in the Control and Constitutional Committee are concerned with controlling and perhaps sometimes finding faults, and an important part of the job is also finding improvement points. I will end by giving the administration credit for the good and thorough job they do by having good control of significant amounts and keeping order in their accounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e691	I would particularly like to take it as a matter of concern to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, since I am the case spokesman for it. The strongest criticism in the Riksrevision report is directed towards the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and their follow-up to the new registry platform in the Brønnøsund Registers. The size allowed funds to be transferred to a new platform, so that all the registers would be transferred. The registry platform is the largest development project in the history of the Brønn Island Health Registers. The new registry platform in Brønnøysund delivers less, is monthly delayed and costs more than originally foreseen. A platform with common functionality for the new registry service was mainly completed in 2020. No register has been delivered at the end of 2020. Implementation areas of the Brønn Island Health Register are low. The new platform that would provide satisfactory information security at the registry is not in use – and it is highly critical. I would particularly like to present the department's task and responsibility for following up this project. The Ministry has received reports from the Brønnøsund Registers on major challenges in the project, but the Ministry has not changed the management signals or reported on the challenges of Stortinget when new funds were to be released. A joint committee asks whether the Ministry has given the Brønn Island Health Registers new and resource-requiring tasks when the Ministry knew about the low level of implementation of the enterprise. The Committee stresses that when it appears that the actual scope of the project is greater than originally estimated, the Ministry must reconsider the cost framework and the plans for the project. The recently graduated National Auditor, Per-Kristian Foss, asked in a chronicle in the Evening Post last week which state actually learns from criticism. He listed large delays in IT investment as the example of where there was learning to pick up. I hope that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries will learn from the criticism in this case, and that several departments will listen. The Control and Constitutional Committee is now dealing with several examples of expensive and delaying IT investment in the country – and there is a lot of learning to learn here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e706	The main rapporteur, if I may call the representative Frølich, has given a good account of the matter. I intend to say two words about selected cases and follow-up of previously reported cases within the Ministry of Knowledge, as I am the case-rapporteur there. First to selected issues: the National Audit Office report shows that the university and higher education sectors do not do enough to ensure that research takes place according to research ethics and regulations. It is a co-ordinated committee that will stress the importance of all research in line with recognised research ethical standards. The Committee therefore supports the recommendations of the National Audit Office to the Ministry of Knowledge: the institutions must ensure that all staff involved in research are adequately trained and that institutions set up systems to ensure that possible breaches of recognised research ethics standards are detected and addressed. In addition, there are gaps in the budgeting and documentation of expenditure by several universities and higher education institutions in some projects. It is a unanimous committee which points out that the control of the National Audit Office has revealed that universities and higher education institutions have little to do with ensuring that the costs of grant and commission projects are in line with the applicable legislation. For example, only one in 10 universities and universities has established a system to ensure that all compensation of employees and indirect costs are properly charged to each project. There were selected issues. As regards the follow-up to previously reported cases, there is still some work to be done before the Ministry is in target. In Document 1 for 2020-2021, the National Audit Office found it critical that the Ministry of Knowledge and State universities and higher education institutions are not sufficiently targeted and systematically employed with social security and preparedness. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Knowledge in the past year has followed the recommendations of the National Audit Office and has taken action to strengthen this important work. The case can therefore be closed. On the other hand, the lack of follow-up of grants to incubators has been the subject of the attention of the Control and Constitutional Committee in several rounds. The Committee has noted that, in the course of the accounting year, the Ministry has revealed that 138 out of 370 schools reported deficiencies in one or more of the note requirements. The Committee notes that the Riksrevision will follow up the case at a later stage, and that is good. Finally, the Committee notes that compliance with accounting standards remains a challenge for several activities of the Ministry of Knowledge. The situation was problematic in the treatment of Document 1 for 2020-2021, but is still not correct. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision is following the case and expects feedback on the follow-up in Document 1 for 2022-2023. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their cooperation and thank the President for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e723	In this setting, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has largely only unanimous comments. It is also largely unanimous that the Committee recommends the proposals, requests and advice of the National Audit Office to the various departments. That in itself is essential, I think, for the controlling business, about which we are actually united in terms of the very large state activity. Even I would like to say that this Document 1 has now been made considerably easier to read. It's important improvements, and I guess the Riksrevision is in an ongoing process of improvement here that's positive. I agree with the Labour Party and the Centre Party, which points out in their comments that the type of listings that are requested can be attached. It can happen without the lyrics esperating again. This could be done, for example, by: be made as a separate annex. I hope the Riksrevision will assess it. The second central feature of the document, in addition to showing deviations, is that it shows the main dimensions of the national accounts on the development of expenditure and income, and the particular reasons for the Storing to be aware of. It has also been the Storting. In particular, I would like to highlight how the document in the opening chapters shows a number of graphs that give cause for concern over a total increase in the gap between revenue and expenditure. These graphs show cost developments in some large departmental areas that go far beyond normal price increases. This shows a need for us to be aware of this both in government and in the Grand Duchy and to think in the long term about how we should be able to achieve a more balanced balance in our income and expenses. So far, it's been very good because we have a solid oil fund that covers the differences, but it's an underlying trend that we have to be aware of. In a number of areas, the Riksrevision says that they have pointed out errors, deficiencies and deviations earlier. In some places it is corrected, as the representative, Even Eriksen, stressed, for some points, which can then be concluded, but for others, it is the same reference from the Riksrevision for several years. Then I would like to stress the responsibility of the Councils and the members of the Government to follow up the Riksaudition, especially where a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs joins the recommendations of the Riksaudition. In this context, there may also be grounds for recalling that members of the government are not only responsible for the parliamentary governance system but also for the constitutional system. Section 10 of the Liability Act states: «By fines or imprisonment of up to 2 years, a member of the Government who causes or contributes to the misuse of the State's properties or other resources, or who otherwise shows negligence or negligence, shall be punished.» It may be understood by some – and I am very close to it – that it is a negligence on the part of the government if they do not follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office supported by a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Now, of course, the situation is that the present members of the government are not responsible for any of the things in Document 1. This applies to previous governments. But next year, the state councils that have been here throughout this period, from now until next year, when we deal with the next Document 1, will be responsible if the National Audit Office points out that shortcomings have been identified as they have also been done in previous years. So I would recommend the councils to be conscious of their constitutional responsibility and make sure that there are no comments from the National Audit Office that say that they have pointed this out for years without anything happening. Finally, I would also recommend to all government councils to look at the Riksrevision as a helper. I know that there is a part of the government that has a negative view of the National Audit Office, which comes and mixes, points out errors and conducts investigations, both administrative audits and other things that are in Document 1, and that they do not like it. But here, both the government and the government have a common interest in the subordinate government complying with the recommendations of the National Audit Office and the support of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for the recommendations and ensuring that what happens is corrected. So for the government councils and departments, the Riksrevision is something they're going to be pleased with, because they're really helping the departments get their manners and order on their subordinate directorates and agencies. Therefore, the members of the Government should actively use the document from the National Audit Office to follow up and implement the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The Councils of State may also, if they are met with criticism from their office, draw attention to the fact that the Councils of State are in fact constitutionally responsible, and they can refer to Section 10 of the law to which I have just referred. It is therefore a support that the state councils can use if they have discussions with their offices – they are constitutionally responsible and risk both fines and penalties if they do not do a job within Section 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e749	The Chairman of the Committee gave a good account of the overall situation. I'll say a little bit more about the Ministry of Defence's budget. But before I do that, I'd like to say, as a new big business representative, that it's really nice to see that the budget is going down as thoroughly as it is going to be. The National Audit Office has previously found that the Ministry of Defence broke the VAT Act for the financial year 2018. Furthermore, they found that the Defence, Defence and Defence Building had continued to break the law for the financial year 2019. The National Audit Office considered this to be a critical matter, as the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs then joined. This was because the Ministry of Defence had assumed that all the establishments in the department were one charging entity and therefore did not ask them to pay VAT for purchases between themselves. The Ministry of Finance, however, found that they were own tax entities and therefore had to pay VAT on goods and services they bought from each other. The National Audit Office concludes in the document we are examining today that the Ministry of Defence interprets and practises the VAT law correctly as from the financial year 2020, and the Riksrevision therefore closes the case. It records the committee. Something else the Riksrevision criticises is how the Defence has practised horizontal interaction. The consequence of this is that expenses do not appear in the right chapter when they are paid, but only when the goods are deducted from stock, in matters relating to the Defence Logistics Organisation. There could be years between these two events. The national audit has repeatedly criticised this way of keeping accounts. When the appropriations are granted one year but are entered in the correct item another year, the admissibility rule violates the one-year principle and the cash principle of the admissibility regulation. But then the chapter structure has changed in the state budget for 2021. The National Audit Board assumes that the changes to the chapter structure will no longer lead to a material breach of the provisions of the Appropriations Regulation and a failure to report on appropriations as a result of horizontal interaction in the Defence. The national audit also concludes this case, but in this case we will see the actual results only after next year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e766	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e783	This report gives us the opportunity to check that previous audits, and what we have pointed out in their wholesale treatment, have actually been followed up by the government. This time, the Riksrevision has reported on the follow-up to 11 cases. Seven of them finish. That's good news. In this way, we can see that what the Riksaudition is doing, and what we're reporting and adopting in this room, is actually being followed up and resulting in concrete improvements. There are four things the Riksrevision has said that they will follow on. These are important things, with great significance for people in Norway. Firstly, the follow-up to the report on child poverty. The national audit indicates that many good measures have been taken in this field in recent years. For example, there is more than a doubling of child poverty grant funds from 2014 to 2018, and specific measures targeting immigrants, with a higher proportion of children growing up in poverty. Unfortunately, the proportion of children growing up in child poverty continues to increase. In 2019, 115,000 children grew up in families with persistently low incomes. In particular, there is a need to look at issues relating to school and education policy, social policy, economic cohesion and labour policy. It is therefore an overall committee that supports the Riksrevision that follow-up to this case is continued. The second case concerns the report on the impact of investments in the railway on train provision. The study shows that train provision has improved significantly from 2016 to 2019, taking into account the number of departures and travel times on routes, but at the same time trains and delays have been set up. The National Audit Office explains this with an increased maintenance kit drag. The Ministry, on its side, claims that several major projects are being completed and that therefore an improvement is expected. The Committee therefore supports the continued follow-up by the Riksrevision. The third case concerns the report on referral practices of the decision-makers to the specialist health service. Clearly, there are major challenges to the fixed medical system. Responses that have been launched need more time to work. The Committee therefore agrees that the Riksrevision will continue to follow this case as well. The last case concerns road-to-sea freight transport. Although many measures have been taken in this field, the Riksrevision has not found any demonstrable impact of the measures. There is the Ministry’s feedback that it has been difficult to assess the results of the measures taken and that the Committee agrees that there is a matter to be followed further. Then I will conclude by thanking the National Audit Office again for good and conscientious work. I look forward to the government following up the leaders in the matter and on the part of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e800	These debates may be a bit repetitive, because there is an overall committee that joins the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office is doing a very important job with its administrative audits. They're going in and they're looking at whether our decisions here in the Storing are being implemented and put into practice effectively, in line with the Storing's objectives, decisions and regulations. The capacity of the national audit to address major societal issues very thoroughly is an important part of governance control. Administrative audits help to create better and more efficient management. In the document we are now examining, the National Audit Office reports on the follow-up to previous administrative audits, and it is good to see that most of the administrative audits carried out by the National Audit Office do not need to be pursued further. At the same time, we in the Labour Party support the fact that the National Audit Office continues to follow four important areas, which was also the chairman of the Committee: Combating child poverty has been a major political concern in the United Kingdom, but progress has nevertheless gone in the wrong direction. Further political attention is needed here, and it is important that the National Audit Office also follow up on what needs to be done. Also the investments in the railways, and the transfer of goods to the railways and the sea, there is a broad consensus, but it takes time to arrive at the results you want. Therefore, it is important that these themes are also pursued and given attention. The same applies to the work of ensuring good referral practices from decision-makers to specialist health services. When people get sick, we depend on the ability and the ability of the decision-makers to refer us further, and it's not by chance that you get help in the specialist health service. Here we are not in goal, and in the light of a long-standing fixed crisis, it is particularly important to follow this further. I also want to thank the National Audit Office for the good and important job they have done here, and I look forward to next year's audits.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e819	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the committee leader for a good review. I still want to go into some of these points. This is an important document, although Stortinget often does not pay much attention. The reports to the National Audit Office tell us how it works after we have taken decisions in this Chamber. It's a response to the political environment about how our decisions are made in the face of people's lives. The criticism in the reports is a starting point for better management. Public services are for people. Management should make the best of its resources to improve services and set policy goals. When the Riksrevision continues to report on a matter, this is not happening. I want to draw up two things from the options that show how important the follow-up of the reports is: In 2017, the Riksrevision reported that the large investments in the rail sector were too low to target a better train supply. In spite of large investments, the developments in precautionary conditions for travellers have been negative on all sections between 2016 and 2019, except for the section Sandnes–Stavanger. A Joint Committee supports the Riksrevision, which will follow things further. This is particularly important when the previous government kept focusing on the fact that there was so much more room for manoeuvre with the constant reorganizations and outsourcing of competition, but one sees that it does not work in practice. It is also necessary for the Riksrevision to continue to follow up the 2018 study on the transport of goods by sea and rail. It has been a clear goal for the Storting for decades to transfer 30 pst. goods from road to sea and track. Powers do not have the power to strengthen competitive corks on sea or rail compared to road transport. Actions taken so far have no measurable effect. Some permissions are not yet usable. Now the ministry has to think again about how they're working on this, and the National Audit Office has to take care of how it works. Therefore, this handling today is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e834	Increased rail transport is important in order to achieve the objective of a more efficient and environmentally friendly transport system, and for trains to be used, the offer of trains must be attractive compared to other modes of transport. That is why I am pleased that the National Audit Office has drawn attention to this important objective. The National Audit Board had the following comments and recommendations in 2017: ensure that the planning of the train improves the provision of the train in line with the capacity extension of the infrastructure; ensure that the railway directorate and Bane NOR are well coordinated, so that conditions affecting the ability to absorb the effects of investment are an integral part of the projects; ensure that the large investment projects have clear, time-fixed and verifiable objectives for improving train provision; In November 2017, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee adopted a unanimous opinion supporting the recommendations of the Riksrevision. The National Audit Board has since followed up on new analyses of travel time, frequency and predictability, both for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. In June last year, the National Audit Office of the Ministry of Transport requested the Ministry of Transport to explain the measures taken to follow up the recommendations and comments made in 2017. Furthermore, the Ministry was asked to comment on the Riksrevision's new analyses for 2017–2019, and the department, under the then state council Knut Arild Hareide, sent its response to the Riksrevision last August. I fully agree with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. This government also wants improvements in train provision, for the benefit of travellers and for freight customers, and I am already taking several steps to achieve this. I also fully agree that investment must lead to a more attractive rail system. However, let me comment on some of the facts that we need to be aware of in order to address the root cause of the challenges the railway is still facing. Firstly, in the last decade, the railways have experienced a great deal of cross-political commitment. This has led to a sharp increase in appropriations, many new developments, investments in material and major changes in train provision. The initiative has produced results, and the growth in the number of travellers until the pandemic occurred was significant. However, it takes time to develop a modern railway. Although we have had, and have in front of us, large expansions, the rail network in Norway still consists of over 92 pst. single track. There are few bypasses, and the maintenance drivage at the end of 2021 is intended to exceed 23 billion. kr. This makes obvious rail transport vulnerable to delays and offers little flexibility to change the route services. Secondly, in 2012 and 2014, the route model in Eastern Europe was completely transformed to provide a train service tailored to the needs of passengers and increased use of infrastructure. The number of train passengers and the number of train departures have since increased markedly. For example, the demand for train journeys along the Drammen-Oslo-Lillestrøm axis has increased to 17,5 million passengers per year in the years 2012 to 2019, a growth of 65 pst. The growth and success of the railway has also created congestion, increased operational problems, wear on infrastructure and materials and also the need for more capacity. We now have a very high use of the infrastructure, and this causes delays to spread even faster and have greater consequences than they would otherwise have. In order to maximise the use of existing networks, it is necessary to optimise the management of the scarce capacity. I have therefore just taken action to ensure strong state control of the scarce infrastructure and given several tasks to the Railway Directorate about how we can improve the daily lives of the travellers. If the railway is to take its share of growth in line with the objectives of zero growth in car traffic, a need for capacity increase of up to 30 pst was calculated before the pandemic. in addition to the increase in planned investment measures. However, due to the congestion of railway infrastructure in Oslo, it will not be possible to further improve train provision with many more departures. A larger grip in the short term to get more passengers in place is therefore to use the available transport capacity on board trains in a more efficient way, and we are also looking at that. The National Audit Service points out that we need to ensure improved train provision through better scheduling as infrastructure capacity expands. I fully agree with that. That's also what we're working for. In order to achieve improvements in train provision, infrastructure measures must be completed, material must be available, timetables changed and agreements concluded with the train operators. The Railway Directorate has been responsible for coordinating all these actions. Large development projects are now regulated in agreements between Bane NOR and the Directorate. In its recommendations to the Ministry, the Directorate emphasises the impact of investment in infrastructure measures. All the pieces needed to achieve such an improvement are collected in a so-called power package, in which case the Directorate-General for Railways will be able to coordinate well all the measures necessary to achieve the improvement of supply. The railway directorate has prepared an offer book which gives an overview of the possibilities for a step-by-step improvement of the train offer. The offer book describes possible improvements to the offer as a result of individual infrastructure actions. However, none of these are on a scale that provides a basis for a fundamental change now, as requested by the Control and Constitutional Committee in 2017. This offer book is public and it is possible for train operators to propose changes if they wish to run a train offer in addition to the contractual offer. As stated in National Transport Plans 2022-2033 and in the Ministry of Transport's budget proposal for 2022, Bane NOR has now been given increased responsibility for delivering the power improvements within a given economic and temporal framework. These frameworks are agreed between Bane NOR and the Railway Directorate for the various power packs. The framework conditions will respond to the recommendations of the National Audit Office that the large investment projects have clear, time-table and verifiable targets for improving train provision. Given that the framework conditions are met, Bane NOR itself prioritises the implementation order of the various projects. Enterprises have also gained greater operational freedom in the concrete design of investment measures with the aim of maximising the impact of each invested krone. With regard to the updated analyses for 2017 to 2019, the Riksrevision has found that the customer experience with regard to travel time and frequency of the relationships studied has either improved or remained unchanged during the period. However, predictability has shown a downward trend. In most of the relations examined by the Riksrevision, no new infrastructure has been put into service during the period. In recent decades there have been significant increases in appropriations for both new railway infrastructure and operation and maintenance of the existing infrastructure. In spite of this, the maintenance kit has thus increased overall, with reduced predictability as a result. The increased frequency in recent years of several sections, as mentioned at the outset, also contributes to increased wear on the infrastructure and facilitates the reproduction of delays. In the years to come, several major projects will be put into use in the relationships examined, thus replacing existing infrastructure. This applies, inter alia, to: continuous double tracks between Oslo and Moss, Tønsberg and Hamar respectively, and several major actions both on the Voseban and Tronderbanen. These projects are expected to improve predictability after completion. We have limited infrastructure capacity, few reversion possibilities, the Oslo Tunnel as a bottleneck and a high maintenance seat. This makes it particularly important with strong state governance and management of the scarce capacity, so we have the best possible train offer for travellers and freight customers. Many steps have been taken to ensure that train provision, material investment and infrastructure development are well coordinated. These grips also need to ensure that we get improvements in train provision from the large appropriations used on the railway to the agreed cost and time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e884	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e901	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e908	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has in Prop. 212 L for 2020-2021 submitted legislative proposals on national rules of procedure in matters of public support. The law shall be referred to as the Support Process Act. I want to start by thanking the Business Committee for a good cooperation and a good process. Norway is a small, open economy. To create jobs for ordinary people, we depend on Norwegian companies selling their goods and services abroad. This is not least the case in the EU, Norway’s main trading partner. Through the EEA Agreement, Norway has access to the EU internal market. Equally important as access to the EU market itself is the need for equal rules and conditions of competition for businesses in the internal market. This also applies to public support. We must then have a common understanding of how public support is to be given. Public support can be a powerful and necessary instrument. Annually, it provides public – from state directorates and all the municipalities of the country – with billions of dollars in support for businesses in Norway. In the last two years, in both Norway and the rest of the world, public funding has been provided by large amounts of public support to enterprises to address the consequences of the pandemic. When the world in the next decades needs to transform industry and society into a renewable society, there is no reason to believe that there will be a less need for public support and thus clear guidelines and rules on how public support can support enterprises in this transformation. The 1992 aid law now regulates the way in which public authorities should proceed if they wish to provide support. This law has not been amended in the last 30 years. There is a need to update and modernise the law so that it is easier to understand and bring it into line with the law in force. The aid law does not regulate the aid itself, but it essentially regulates the process that public authorities have to go through when they want to provide public support to private enterprises. The legislative proposal under consideration today contains important clarifications on both the obligation to recover and the procedure for the grantor after the payment of unlawful aid. The support process is designed to clarify the ambiguities of what is currently in force. In addition to regulating the aid process in respect of the EEA Agreement, the Support Process Act ensures that Norway fulfils its obligations under the OECD Agreement on normal competitive conditions in the shipbuilding industry and under the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Cohesion Charges. Overall, the proposal for a new support process law provides for the cleanup and clarification of the legislation of the outgoing aid law. A new, up-to-date and modern law will be positive for the sponsor, for business and for total Norwegian value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e925	Today, we are dealing with rules of procedure in matters of public support. This proposition was promoted in June 2021 by the government of Solberg, and thus the representatives of the Right are behind the proposition as it was promoted, in its entirety. The right is concerned that Norway has an active EU and European policy and strongly supports Norway’s access to the internal market through the EEA Agreement. Participation in the internal market shall ensure Norwegian business participation and competitive conditions in line with those of other EEA countries. It is very important for Norwegian enterprises with a well-functioning internal market and a level playing field, and we believe it is good that the EEA Agreement contains common rules on public aid. Public support may be a necessary tool for achieving important objectives, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions and economic development in regions with specific challenges. The proposal under consideration today confirms that the rules on public aid are also an important prerequisite for the proper functioning of competition in the internal market across national borders. The rules shall prevent subsidy competition between EEA States, where they promote their own business through public subsidies. They shall also restrict the ability of the authorities to promote individual undertakings or industries rather than others. These rules are very important at a time when we see political trends that will focus more on their own production and nationalism, rather than free competition and cross-border cooperation. The right supports improvements in existing laws that aim to clarify the law and make it more user-friendly. The main objective of designing a new law on national procedural rules on public support issues is to ensure a clear and comprehensive regulation of national support processes. This contributes to predictability and long-term business life, and that is good. At the same time, it also reinforces the possibility of complying with Norway’s EEA legal obligations, and it is very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e940	In this case, which could quickly remind you of the need to clean up national public support rules, the consultation round drew attention to the fact that conditions are in the process of making worse demands for the recovery of unlawfully paid aid than those of the EU country, among others. Sweden and Finland. So with this proposal, a limitation period of ten years to recover illegal aid will be reduced to three years, which seems to be what a majority in this Chamber wants. It will therefore provide us here in Norway with shorter deadlines and less opportunities to recover unlawfully granted aid. We cannot accept that in red, and we have proposed that the limitation period here should be ten years, as our neighbouring country has, which are full members of the European Union. So there's nothing in the way that we can do this. We are pleased that SV and MDG are in favour of this proposal, and this has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e947	The representative, Mr Jørgensen, has thus addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e952	The Government is now proposing new rules to ensure that public aid issues are dealt with in an efficient and consistent manner and in line with the rules of the EEA Agreement. The new law will clarify the legislation and thus contribute to greater predictability, and it is important for business. It also covers an update need in the field of support procedures and processes. The main objective is to ensure a clear and comprehensive regulation of the national procedures that must be followed where national authorities wish to provide public support. The legislative proposal shall help to ensure that no formal error is made in order to make the granting of aid illegal under the EEA Agreement. This is particularly important now. So we're paying more public support than ever in the case of the Korona Schemes. The legislative proposal lays down rules on what public authorities in Norway, whether they are a municipality or a state directorate, have to remember when they provide support, for example. the obligation to notify to ESA, and not least the obligation to withdraw. The proposal also provides for an important clarification of the obligation to recover and how beneficiaries should proceed when unlawful aid has been paid. The Support Process Act thus clears up issues that have been unsolved in the current law. The Government proposes a three-year limitation in the obligation of the grantor and the right to recover unlawful aid where there is no decision by the ESA to recover. Where the ESA has not taken a decision on the return, the obligation to recover unlawful aid that is potentially competitively acceptable under EEA law also exists. Therefore, there are good reasons to limit the obligation of recovery of the grantor in these cases. It will be of great practical importance for any return requirements in the future, and therefore we are pleased that the majority of the Business Committee agrees with this proposal. Our main aid schemes, which differentiate employers' fees, are granted through the tax fixing. Such aid must therefore follow the rules of procedure laid down in the Tax Administration Act as far as they are appropriate. The Supporting Process Act shall also ensure that we fulfil our obligations under the OECD Agreement on normal competitive conditions in the shipbuilding industry and the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Balancing Fees. Such subsidies are subject to own rules on notification, reporting and recovery. We've now allocated over 7.5 billion. kr to cover the fixed and unavoidable costs of Norwegian enterprises affected by the corona measures. So this is just one of many important corona support schemes for our business. The EEA Agreement allows the authorities to provide financial support to Norwegian enterprises where necessary and well-founded, and that is the case in these cases. But it is important that we do this in the right way, and the Support Process Act provides clear rules on how governments should proceed when they grant public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e967	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e972	The size follows the government through many parts of the proposal, and then there is an important question of clarification. Paragraph 14 of the proposal applies to the fact that the grantor can take individual decisions under Section 12 requiring the recovery of unlawful aid for up to three or ten years. Can the Council of State clarify to the Storting what the difference is between the two proposals, and what practical consequences can they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e977	The three-year limitation on the obligation and the right to recover unlawful aid is where ESA has not imposed a reversal. Where ESA has done so, it has a 10-year limitation. We have to deal with this as part of the EEA Agreement, so it will not be possible to change it. So the government believes that there are good reasons why it should be a three-year limitation in cases where ESA has not imposed a surrender. It's about the predictability of our business – that they can adapt to the public support given, and that it could have very negative consequences if businesses are set up and any mistakes have been made, and the limitation period is too long. I can add that the general limitation period in Norwegian law is three years. That's also why the government has settled there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e982	The chord shift has been completed. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e990	Norwegian nursery buildings are usually built on free or very reasonable plots and financed with favourable loans through the House Bank. Kindergarten construction is an important part of the infrastructure that we need in Norwegian care and education policy, and throughout. In addition, Dr. SBB recently sold 142 nursery buildings to the Swedish property company SBB for 4.58 billion. kr, and last year the Learning Workshop sold 138 nursery buildings to SBB for a total of 4.25 billion. kr. Red believes that this may be a case of unlawful State aid granted, cf. evaluations of the welfare service committee. These are two concrete examples, where in a short time it might be difficult to recover this money if it turns out to be right. It may not be that we are in a situation where we cannot both succeed and turn down unlawfully granted public support that is longer than three years. It will be very damaging to Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e999	I would like to respond to some of the concerns of the representatives from Red, and therefore I have to go to work a little more detailed in this post. The EEA Agreement requires illegal aid to be recovered, but when we talk about unlawful aid in this context, it concerns aid which is not subject to notification to ESA but for some reason has not been notified and approved by ESA in advance. Illegal aid may be either compatible or incompatible with the substantive aid rules. Accordingly, compatible aid is acceptable under the EEA Agreement and only ESA has legal access to assess the compatibility of the aid. If the ESA finds in a case that unlawful aid is incompatible with EEA law, it will be fully possible to allow the recovery of unlawful aid 10 years back in time. If the ESA finds that the aid, even if it had a procedural break, was lawful under the conditions of competition in the EEA territory, the aid would not have to be repaid. It is necessary to clarify that the Support Process Act includes public support for economic activity. I notice that representatives have talked about the fact that commercial actors in the kindergarten sector are affected. We are several parties that will reduce the profits of publicly funded private welfare services, but both the EFTA Court and ESA have previously concluded that kindergarten activities cannot be considered as economic activity and that normal operating aid to them is not covered by EEA rules and the Supporting Process Act. The majority of the Committee is clear that it makes sense to limit the obligation of three years and to recover unlawful aid where ESA has not imposed a reversal. In this context, the public will be required to recover aid regardless of whether the aid is materially within the limits set by EEA law for public aid. It is also worth mentioning that the bill does not stand in the way of reclaiming aid on the basis of other legal bases, such as contractual or administrative requirements. An update will make it easier for potential beneficiaries to inform themselves in the legislation and thus reduce the risk of breach of the aid legislation. The Government is clear that the scope of action of the EEA Agreement is to be used to promote and strengthen Norwegian interests. We are clear that a more active state can support under new Norwegian industrial ventures and create good, safe jobs for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1012	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1029	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1036	The Economic and Social Committee has had the following proposal from the Left to strengthen animal welfare for farmed animals for treatment. The Committee shares the view of the proposers that it is important to ensure good animal welfare in Norway, and we believe that Norway should continue to be at the top of the world in this area. The Committee notes, on a cross-political basis, that Norway is well placed to maintain good animal health and good animal welfare. I assume that the proposers themselves do well for their own suggestions. For us in the Central Party and the Labour Party, it is important to emphasize that we do not vote against the proposals from the Left because we are against improving animal welfare, but because we think there is reason to look more closely at the problem. We want a professional look as a basis for decisions in Stortinget that have major consequences. Serious policies in the field of animal welfare must provide measures that have good animal welfare as likely targets, but it is not necessarily achieved with proposals to increase the penalties for violations of animal welfare laws, such as the Right, the Advance Party, the Red and the Left do in this case. They come with this without looking at health and without considering whether other measures may have a better impact on animal welfare. In addition, if the problem is that some today are unable to comply with today’s rules, it may not be possible that even stricter rules or higher penalties are the answer. The whole thing seems like a light and slightly thoughtful set of things. Minister of Agriculture Sandra Borch has concluded that the government will present its own report on animal welfare. This animal welfare message shall address both domestic animals and farmed animals on land and in the sea. Such a holistic review by professionals will provide a good basis for assessing measures and regulatory changes that can strengthen Norwegian animal welfare. Of course, improvements should also be made until the message is produced, but major steps, which have major consequences for animals and nutrients, must be taken with a more serious view than many of the other parties have clearly intended to use. Farmers are a professional group with a high level of care for the animals. However, in recent years there have been cases of gross violations of the rules and situations where animals have not been able to do well. It is important that violations of animal welfare laws are properly addressed. The Government Party and SV have strengthened the Food Authority precisely to ensure more frequent and better supervision. The aim is for the Food Safety Authority to have sufficient resources to carry out good consultation and to have targeted cooperation with the manufacturing industries. For years to come, Norway shall produce more food in order to increase self-sufficiency and ensure national food security. This must be done at the same time as animal welfare is even better. These measures must then be a result of thoughtful changes and provide real improvements. The Central Party and the Labour Party will vote in favour of the loose proposal of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1057	Animal welfare is important. We all agree on that. Already in June 2021, the government of Solberg announced the need for a new big message on animal welfare. I am very pleased that the Left is raising this issue and has done a very good job, and that we are now discussing it and seem to have a majority for more proposals. I also think that very many small grips can make a big difference. Norwegian agriculture today is generally very good at animal welfare. I feel that most farmers take very good care of and are very happy with their animals, and I am very happy about that. It might sound a little clichéy, but that's how happy animals produce better, better food and better profitability. That doesn't mean we're not going to take a look at better solutions, because there's, of course, a great potential. In the case of pigs, which is one of the themes we're discussing, it's like if you're a pig's mother living on a hard concrete floor with very little litter, you get a wound. That's the way it is, and that makes sense. These wounds can in some cases go all the way down to the bones. Breeding that makes the pigs extra big, does give a lot of food, but if they're lying on the hard floor, it leads to bone problems, and these pig breasts become very rarely something particularly more than two years. Most of the violations we see that the Food Safety Authority has revealed in its pig campaign were related to this – the lack of good soil and the absence of litter and root material. These are challenges that can simply be solved. At the same time, it is important that the demands we make here on Stortinget do not make the farmers sink into spending. It's not like the farmers today have a sea of money to take off, so we have to do things in a good way that's good for the animals, but that's also measures that are realistic for the farmers to implement. In the case of a bird, today we grind the cocklings alive; approx. Three million male chicks are milled alive every year in Norway. The growth rate of chicken is a major challenge. There's quite a broad consensus about that. I am very happy that several of the food chains have taken hold of this themselves and made demands. They phase out fast-growing breeds and use more sustainable feed. Norwegian Chicken AS is one of these examples. In 2018 they completed the replacement of approx. 13 million chickens, from fast growing to slow growing, so here the market is already on the ball. So it's like some people who have animals shouldn't have animals. Today, the penal framework for destroying nature is higher than for animal abuse, and it is not at stake. Therefore, we believe that the penalties for animal abuse and the fines for grossly negligent infringements of the Animal Welfare Act should be increased, and we hope that perhaps SV, for example, can consider participating in that proposal. I'll bring that up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1074	The representative Lene Westgaard-Halle has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1079	Animal welfare is important and Norway shall enjoy a high level of animal protection. It's outrageous to see animals being treated badly. There is also something Norwegian consumers are concerned about, but it is the exception rather than the rule. Norwegian farmers usually treat their animals well and take great care of them. Therefore, it is unfortunate if the impression is created that Norwegian farmers are about to engage in animal abuse. I'm afraid that this will be the result of a conscious campaign of some animal protectors. It was a conscious campaign to get rid of the fur farmers. The majority of the population fell for it, and the result was mildly problematic. When it's said, it's important to make sure animals are well, and we were drivers to get animal police in place. Then we must also have standards that contribute to better animal welfare and that must be based on up-to-date professional knowledge. There has been a lot of focus on the pig industry. Here research indicates that pigs need more space and softer surfaces, and that it is important that they also have something to work with in order to thrive. Higher animal welfare requirements may be expensive for farmers. Many farmers are under financial pressure. It is then important to find a way to introduce new standards that will not lead to significant financial burdens. Many pig-fowls have matured for upgrading in the next few years, and we see a smooth transition, with the gradual introduction of new standards. It's also important to add up to incentives. The introduction of new animal welfare standards should be assessed by the government in close dialogue with industry. Then we have cases where we can talk about animal abuse and gross violations of the animal welfare law. It's important to shut down. It often turns out that there are several problems inside the picture that are exposed to violence against animals. Then we're not going to wear silk gloves. We therefore support the proposal of the Right to increase the penalties and increase the fines for serious infringements of the Animal Welfare Act. The Progress Party has faith in the market. Even in the case of animal welfare, we see that it works. In recent nations, Denmark was reported to be cutting out fast - growing chicken. The reason is that consumers demand slow-growing chicken breeds. In Norway, threshing layers based on Norwegian chicken AS have phased out fast-growing breeds. According to the company, they today need up to 3 million fewer chickens to produce the same quantity of meat as for the production of fast growing chicken. The conversion has been made by means of private capital and economic incentives for the farmers. I am pleased that we receive an animal welfare message by the spring of 2023 at the latest, and look forward to treating it in Stortinget. I would also like to inform you that the Progress Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1096	Let me start with an example. In 2018, the surveillance campaign for the Swedish Food Safety Authority on slaughter piglets in Rogaland revealed serious animal welfare violations in 166 of 228 slaughter pig producers. The following year, in June 2019, Karen Johanne Baalsrud, Director of the Plant and Animal Welfare Department, said: ‘Our supervision in recent times cannot report any marked improvement in the animal welfare of pigs’. There is a lot of good animal welfare in Norwegian agriculture, but we also have problems. We have a societal challenge of animal welfare in Norway that needs to be addressed. One thing is a violation of the law, another is too bad a law. The living conditions of chickens, pigs, cows and other grazing animals must be improved. This is an animal welfare report for agriculture to address. The last time it happened was 20 years ago. Many of the measures outlined there are not followed up today, and much of the legislation we have today dates back to the 1980s and 1990s. In particular, it is critical for livestock driven intensively, such as pigs, chickens and poultry, but also for cows, sheep and goats. Pigs and chicken first: Here we have a problem with intensive production pressure. Concession limits should be lowered, at the same time as the economy of the farmer must be maintained, so that it can be driven more in line with good animal welfare. Choice of breed in e.g. the production of chicken has itself been driven by purely economic motives, without regard to animal welfare. Burying of hens should be prohibited. There needs to be greater space and a better environment for indoor operations. There must be healthy breeds, and pigs and chickens should have access to outdoor areas. To a greater extent than at present, provision should be made for the maintenance of typical species needs in production. For livestock where the production pressure is lower, the animal welfare challenge is still present. Here it's up to you to give good rules that make the animals, for example. may be out for a good part of the time, have exercise, have good area, be together cow and calf, etc. In this case, SV is pleased to form multiples to provide an offensive animal welfare message, to provide alternatives to problematic breeding methods, and to work to improve the situation in the pig industry. We are disappointed that the majority does not want to address the problems of the regulation now, or address the major animal welfare challenges that exist before the transport of animals. A fundamental problem is that the farmer’s economy is also a direct cause for poor animal welfare. What we think is an important dimension in this matter. The farmer's economy must be raised. It will also have a positive animal welfare effect, as well as a strong regulatory framework. I would like to include the SV suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1113	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1118	In the beginning, I will begin by praising the Left Party. It's not every day we in Red do it, but this is a good and important proposal. We also see that the government has notified a notice of animal welfare. But the Red government seems to have given it a good time. By the end of 2024, the starting point was. We believe that this was too long a time perspective, so we support the proposal that that communication should come about by 2023. We don't just have to focus on animals. We have to focus on the farmer. We've seen developments in agriculture in recent years, with an increasing focus on volume, and we're seeing that there's more and more between uses. The community that makes the farmer as well as being a producer can have a good life and a network around him, is in many places in the process of collapsing. And we know that when the farmer is well, the conditions are also there for the animals to feel good. There's a lot you have to deal with, and we kind of don't get away from the very structure of agriculture and the way we produce. I'll take one off at sea. It is such that both farmed salmon and wild fish are covered by the Animal Welfare Act. Every day, 150 000 cleansing fish die in Norwegian breeding pain – so consumption is 50 million cleansing fish every year. It's a consumption of living beings and individuals that we haven't seen in Norway's history. In addition, we know that the mortality rate in the farming industry is evenly above 20-25 p.m., and in 2019 52 million farmed salmon died in the mermaids. So to illustrate the level of this, it's a lot of times the quantity that's taken up in the locotfish, which is the largest seasonal fish in the world. We can't have it like that. We look forward to good discussions on animal welfare in the future and the message that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1129	When the Left presented in November a comprehensive package of measures for better animal welfare, for farmed animals in general and for pigs in particular, it was for a clear purpose. It wasn't a political mark to be knocked down, and it wasn't because we think animal welfare in Norwegian agriculture is generally bad, because it's not. No, it was because we had a sincere belief that just the concrete left-hand proposals provided, it was possible to gather multiple numbers about, across the red, green, and blue, and with that changing our country to the better for our animals. It is therefore a great pleasure to be able to stand in the hall here today and see that it seems to be right. There's going to be multiple numbers for better animal welfare. There is a broad alliance that now says that there is a hurry with a new big message, much more than the government itself believes, and that the message must take up a number of important, concrete points for better animal welfare. And it's a lot of -- right now, before an animal welfare report -- to start work on improving animal welfare for pigs, when it comes to land per animal, land requirements and the environment they live in, and to speed up their efforts to find good alternatives to today's practice of killing chickens by squeezing them whole. I would like to thank that broad majority of the party in the committee that now together, hopefully, makes sure that animals in Norway can get it even better, and I would like to thank for all the good recordings from organizations and other along the way in the work. So I wonder if the government and the government party didn't look at one of all our proposals as important enough to promise now, but just plainly reject all measures for better animal welfare and will push a new animal welfare message all the way to the dump of the landfill period. It's too bad. It's not to take the welfare of animals seriously, and I'm glad that the big crowd is now, hopefully, giving clear information about it. We're not in target. Firstly, on the left, we would like to have a plurality for all our proposals, the proposal to be even clearer in strengthening animal welfare requirements for pig feeding, the proposal for the rapid phasing-out of fast-growing breeds of chickens and turkeys and the proposal for higher requirements for the transport of animals, which we have been told in the course of the process that Norway can introduce. As is so often the case here in the world, it is not on the EEA or the EU, it is on the Central Party's will. Secondly, this document deals only with farmed animals in agriculture. Animal welfare is about much more. Now, already in 2023, there is to be a holistic message of animal welfare for all the animals that human beings control – pets, farm animals and fish farming. We're very satisfied with that. I can now inform you that the Left will come with new initiatives for better animal welfare, not least for our pets. Work on better animal welfare must continue. We in the left hand side are going to be in the first row, and I'm glad that many other parties are engaged. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4, 5 and 6, which we agree on, but at least I want to put forward proposal No. 7, which is not currently taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1146	The representative of Alfred Jens Bjørlo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1152	Thank you to the Left, who has made an important proposal to speed up and increase the level of ambition in the work on animal welfare in Norwegian food production. And congratulations to the Stortinget, who is going to adopt a clear marshalling earth to the government to increase the progress in the process of a growth report that will provide a significantly better level of animal welfare throughout Norwegian agriculture. This is not an attack on agriculture. It is a help both to the farmed animals, for which we have a responsibility, and to the agriculture that is dependent on and responsible for ensuring that welfare is as good as the Norwegian legislation has long required, but that is not always sufficiently well complied with. We must now get a big message, by the spring of 2023 at the latest, and that big message must ensure that pigs get significantly better living conditions in production, more space and more toy space – more opportunities for this species of very advanced animals to practice their natural behaviour – and we must have better killing methods and a number of other measures. It is important that the government takes on board that the decisions that come today are not exhaustive. On the contrary, they expect a broad quality promise for the entire animal production in Norway. And when the representative Klinge uses the word realistically, it is important to be aware that realism in the field of animal welfare is increasing demands and increased expectations in line with what consumers want, and what research knows about animals. The Green Party has worked consistently and hard to increase animal welfare for all Norwegian farmed animals. That is why we are somewhat surprised that this proposal, which is therefore about the welfare of Norwegian farmed animals, does not also include the sovereign largest farmed animal in Norwegian food production, which is farmed fish. There are also the greatest welfare problems, and the Greens have tabled several proposals on how to deal with them. They are, for some strange reason, voted down by the majority, but we assume that these proposals will be included in the forthcoming big message. The Greens will support proposal No. 1 in the settings. We are also going to support the Christian People's Party's loose proposals, and I recommend with this Environment Party the Greens' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1165	Animal welfare is something that engages us all, and the last years' pictures of shocking treatment of animals are none of us for. This meant that the previous government started work on animal welfare messages, and the new government has expanded it with an even greater mandate to make a communication with a broad professional background – in order to increase animal welfare in our own country. I have great expectations for the work that the government has started. It is incredibly important that such a notification is based on fresh knowledge of the situation in Norwegian agriculture, not least of what is good animal welfare. So it's like that message has to come up with something more. That message must also provide an estimate of what this will mean for our own food production. What will it mean for the individual farmer when we apply measures? Because to the seventh and last, it's also about the bottom line of the individual farmer. In addition, we know that the health of farmers has an impact on animal health. Those who struggle with their own health have more difficulty in following up the responsibility of having good animal welfare in their own animals. That is why I am concerned that this animal welfare message that the government comes with should be highly professional, that it should be able to come up with thorough solutions and look at legislation and requirements. But I am concerned that it should be done in a way that is not made in individual decisions of the Stortinget. I mean this for the industry, but I also mean it for the competence and knowledge into what we adopt. That is why the Christian People's Party, although we are concerned with animal welfare, will not vote for any of the individual proposals that have come, but we are looking forward to the animal welfare message that comes. And we have our own solved proposal asking for this message to be based on up-to-date knowledge of animal welfare, and not least based on professional and factual conditions that are now there, and that it also takes into account that human welfare also affects animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1178	Then the representative, Olug Vervik Bollestad, took up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1183	I am pleased that the Business Committee agrees that a new animal welfare report is important and necessary. Such work will focus attention on issues that this government prioritises, both animal welfare and animal husbandry conditions in our primary industries, both in the green and blue sectors. So I believe that the work we are doing has to be overdue and could provide a solid basis for the work on animal welfare for many years to come. The previous report on animal husbandry and welfare came almost 20 years ago. The time has come for a new message, but the work is very extensive and needs to be done well. The complexity of the conditions to be covered and the scope of the notification and what it is intended to embrace, and the need for a sound professional level, make the time perspective essential. Providing a notice to the Storting at the latest in spring 2023 means, in substance, a completed project work by the end of this year. If I had thought it was possible, I would suggest it myself. However, with the proposal currently in place in the Committee, it will be difficult to get all the knowledge on the table, especially since this notification, which has been notified by the government, will cover both domestic animals, pets and, in particular, aquaculture animals. So I therefore insist that a big message should only be promoted in 2024. Then I would like to remind you that the proposal for a representative that we are dealing with today deals only with farmed animals, while the government has notified an animal welfare notice to cover both farmed animals, pet animals and aquaculture animals. The new government has already announced in the Hurdals platform an ambition that we in Norway should be among the best in animal welfare, but the entrance must be knowledge-based, comprehensive and thorough. This is particularly important where measures can have a significant impact on the economy and competitiveness of Norwegian livestock farming. The aim should, of course, be to raise various issues relating to animal husbandry and animal welfare, both professionally and politically. An animal welfare notification must include proposals for new, long-term objectives and long-term measures. I am surprised to see the setting today, which the Right Party and the Advance Party are in, what is about the pig industry and upgrades of operating buildings or new buildings. There will be serious economic consequences for the pig industry that will not last for long. So I'll end by saying that I'm happy for the commitment, because it's important, and that's good at the work we're going to do when it comes to writing an animal welfare message.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1205	I'm surprised to hear the answer from the Council of State. So we have a government that thinks that breaking up the county councils in the country, reversing the whole judicial reform and making major reforms in the public sector, it's just to do with a trick and get away right away – but making a big message about animal welfare is impossible to do in a year and a half. It tells me that we have a government that doesn't prioritize animal welfare, which doesn't mean it's an important area to work with. I'm not surprised that the Center Party has that hold, but that the Labour Party, as a party that has traditionally been occupied by animal welfare, can stand behind such a downside, I'm very surprised. I would like to challenge the Council of State directly at the setting in the Committee to quickly start a work to sharpen animal welfare for pigs. I would like to ask the State Council to comment on whether it wants to follow up on what is in the configuration of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1212	I thank you for the question. I want to say that the government is very concerned with animal welfare, and the government is also very concerned about improving animal welfare. The industry is also developing in the future, and we have to deal with that. But at the same time, I'm going to say that it's actually the animal owner who's in charge, and we have amazingly many good animal owners out there who are genuinely happy with their animals. Of course, some cases are unfortunate, and animals in Norway are going to be fine. So to the question to the representative Bjørlo, the government is very concerned to have an overview of the costs of what you decide. So I almost want to challenge the representative back, if he has calculated what it will cost for the pig industry, for the individual farmer, to implement the measures proposed here. Agriculture is now in a difficult economic situation, and there are proposals that will contribute to an even more difficult economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1219	I would like to remind you that what the Council of State is now commenting on is as follows: A requested government is looking at ‘incentives that will increase animal welfare in the pig industry’, i.e. looking at instinctively to get it done. So the proposal is so difficult that the Council of State asks the opposition to find funding on it. And another proposal that lies here is research on ‘alternatives to CO 2 stunning of animals in the slaughterhouse and grinding of chickens reared for laying’. After all, it's quite fascinating that when it comes to the resolution of all the county councils in the country, which we know costs hundreds of millions of dollars, the finance minister says it doesn't matter what it costs, this is just what we pay anyway. However, when it comes to introducing simple measures to improve animal welfare for pigs, an industry where we know one is not good enough at it today, the Council of State is apparently completely helpless and must have help from the opposition to obtain funding on it. Again: It says something about priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1229	But we have to remember that there are families here. It's not public agencies or institutions. There are families, Norwegian food producers, who get this bill caught. Then I actually want to brag a little bit of my predecessor, because the previous government started a welfare program for pigs, which we now get reports on, and which shows that the pig industry has made a lot of progress. The industry itself has taken a large roof. So I'm not saying that that's good enough, and that's what I'm going to challenge the representative Bjørlo on here, who didn't read the rest of the proposal, that's the one with the upgrade of operating buildings and new buildings. It costs money for the families who have to make these investments. There are individual enterprises, or Norwegian farmers, who have to make these investments – and that with a proposal that only comes on the table. That's what I'm so skeptical about, because we have to have a complete message that addresses all the challenges of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1236	The President would just like to point out that it is important to ask questions, and then the Council of State will answer the question and not ask questions back again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1241	It looks like answering questions is something the Center Party in general has some challenges with, but we're not giving up, of course. But the Central Party is therefore voting against all the proposals for animal welfare that are being promoted in the matter. They want to push on a new animal welfare message and deliver it five years after the Solberg government said it was needed – five years. They've been notifying me about both the one and the other, but animal welfare is completely impossible to deal with. You need five years on it. So to that with costs: the argument against one of the proposals is that there are so many costs, and therefore the government parties cannot agree to it. Therefore, I wonder, what is the cost of increasing the fines for gross infringements of the Animal Welfare Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1249	The new government has been sitting for 100 days and has already announced an animal welfare report, and work is under way in the ministry. The Solberg government set up for eight years and was unable to get work started on an animal welfare report. I want to say that the new government is delivering. We are concerned with animal welfare, concerned that our animals should be well, whether they are farmed animals, pets or aquaculture animals. That's exactly why we want a complete animal welfare message to look at all of these factors. For the fact that when the Food Safety Authority receives a statement of concern, more than half of the concerns related to pet animals are not farmed animals. So we need an overall review, and that's what the government wants to start, just to get a thorough assessment of all of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1256	So it was to answer questions again then. So the argument is that the last government has been sitting for eight years without doing anything, but now it's 20 years since the last animal welfare report, so it put a red-green government in power for eight years before it again. We'd like to hit each other in the head with who's been sitting the longest without doing anything, but the Solberg government warned that there had to be a new animal welfare message, while today's government says they need five years to do it. I think that's a little weird. But my question wasn't about it. My question was about costs. What is the cost of increasing the fines for gross infringements of the Animal Welfare Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1261	These are investigations that we are going to come back to, but I have to make the representative aware that it is not five years for the animal welfare notification that the government has notified to come. It's two years, just to be able to do a thorough job. If you were to follow up in 2023, the work had to be done by the end of this year, and it's complex. This is a complex topic, even if we're going to get an animal welfare message that's going to last for a long time. I would like to remind you again that one of the first things we did in the government was to notify an animal welfare message. This government is concerned with animal welfare, is concerned that we are going to have food production in the country, are busy with pets and are also concerned that aquaculture animals are going to be well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1266	I am a little concerned that the Council of State has not read the proposal well enough. It says: «The government is asked to look at incentives that will increase animal welfare in the pig industry, in particular in terms of area, soil and environmental coverage [[...]] That's how the proposal starts. It gives a great deal of room for action for the government if they want it. But I'm recording that the Council of State and the Central Party don't want it. To this end, with a complete notification: will there not be any significant difference between measures for farmed animals on land and for aquaculture? Would it not be appropriate to look at them separately? If not – why do these have to be seen in context?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1278	It's pretty easy for a representative of a party that's cutting off 1.5 billion. in the appropriations for Norwegian agriculture in its alternative state budget, to say that this is to be done. I am concerned about those who are going to make these investments, and that we are not now putting the leads on them. To the question from the representative: we want a comprehensive animal welfare message to address farmed animals and pet animals, but also aquaculture animals. I will do so in cooperation with the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea. This is an important work, and how we do it further, and if we are to divide it in the message, we have to look at it. But that's exactly what we need time to get to know about. This is an extensive work to be done in a short time, and as I said, on the part of the government, we have said that we are ready to deal with that work, but our recommendation is that it should be done in 2024.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1285	I am also amazed that the Council of State has an approach to animal welfare advances as if it were a whole new invention. We have a food control, we have a law, we have research, and we have an industry that is very well aware of both problems and opportunities, and that needs it that an ambitious government can provide. And in the case of such a drag, it's also very interesting what the government is going to do about this animal welfare message with farmed fish. I am aware that this is not the work of the Council of State, but when she is here, can the Council of State guarantee, on behalf of the Government, that much more stringent requirements will be made for reducing mortality among farmed fish and cleansing fish in the notification to be submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1290	This is what the government is going to do, and I think it is good that the government is now warning that there is to be a big message to cover all animals, including pets, farmed animals and aquaculture animals. I fully agree with the representative that the Food Authority and the other mechanisms we already have are important. For this reason, the government has now significantly strengthened the Food Authority with budgetary resources in order to be able to supervise it out there. But it is important that that message remains over time. I, who comes from a farm myself, may well be the Council of State who has the best knowledge of the animals on farm. Me and the rest of the government are concerned with animal welfare. That's exactly why I want to get this work going, both in order to get knowledge and in terms of political choices – but not least I want it to be possible for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1299	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1304	Norway has good conditions for good animal health and animal welfare. It gives the industry a good quality stamp and helps place Norwegian food production at the top of the world in terms of quality. Increased food production based on Norwegian resources is well served by a desire for Norwegian agriculture to play a major role in improving animal welfare. A total of agriculture is currently on animal welfare programmes to carry out systematic and good work in all herds. It also referred to the Council of State. Veterinary visits are a key element of animal welfare programmes. This means that a veterinarian assesses animal welfare in herds and makes suggestions for improvement areas. If deviations are detected, this is recorded and targeted advice provides suggestions for improvements and solutions. The Hurdal platform supports and ensures good animal welfare, food security and preparedness. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee has stressed that a mandate for a possible notification of enlargement should have a thorough professional and political process with an overall perspective, where it is also relevant to include all animals covered by the Animal Welfare Act. There is no concealment that there are challenges to improving animal welfare. We have to be constantly concerned with improvements. Animal husbandry shall take the utmost account of the natural behaviour of the animals and their needs. Animals are self-valued and must be handled with respect. Inadequate living conditions cause farmed animals to become ill and change behaviour. In other words, there is no desired situation for either animals, agricultural industry or consumers. Good animal welfare is primarily important with regard to animals, but also contributes to a good working environment for the farmer. However, the representative proposal contains proposals which may have a significant impact on the economy and competitiveness of Norwegian livestock farming. I believe that any such changes should come as a result of a thorough investigation, in which both the benefits and the costs of different measures are assessed, which could happen, for example. through such an animal welfare message. Then issues related to animal husbandry will be raised both professionally and politically in a good way. Therefore, the centre party is not in favour of individual opposition proposals, because of a desire to see measures, requirements and adaptations in a wider context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1317	In general, Norwegian farmers are happy with their animals, but I think it is absolutely necessary that we get an animal protection message, which comes in 2023. In 2024 and 2034 there are additional requirements, especially in cattle. I think we have to be a little bit more ambitious than that particular government party is here. It's a little amazing to hear, in this room, that the council obviously has the best thing on animals because she's grown up on the farm. There may be some of us who have also done so, and who have been involved in animal production for quite many years. But what surprises me more is when you talk about pigs, or about the pig industry, which is an industry that almost does not receive transfers at all, but which is so dependent on the consumer and not least consumer loyalty. Then it is surprising to hear that the centre party has to be pulled after the hair in order to actually realize that it is important that the consumer's loyalty depends on how the industry succeeds. I think the vast majority of pig producers are very serious, but then we also have to stimulate in a way that makes the loyalty of the consumer there. Animal welfare is important both for farmed animals and for pet animals. That's why we're warning that we're coming back with more in the case of pets. The case rapporteur was in the Food Authority. Yes, the Food Authority must remember that they not only have a control and supervision function; they also have a guidance function that is often equally important, which can help prevent animal tragedy, as we have seen on TV, with poor care, which often has a connection with the farmer's mental health. Poor livestock farming cannot be accepted in any way. In many livestock owners there are several veterinary visits per week; in others there is much less. And the vast majority of farmers are very concerned that their animals are going to be well, for precisely through that they are prospering and producing, it will also be shown on the bottom line of the farmer. Good animal welfare is, as I said, something the consumer is very concerned about. That's why it's also important that we from the Biggest actually facilitate that we have good animal welfare. Animal welfare is more and more what consumers are looking at. This will also be a pretense when we want to export, along with little use of antibiotics. I'm fully aware that some Easterners call them pig-mothers, but we throngers call them sows. The sows are fine, they're fine, but I also think they can get better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1339	Good animal welfare is very important. A society's attitudes to animal welfare mirror the qualities of a society in many ways. The Animal Welfare Code must therefore be dynamic and based on up-to-date knowledge and changing societal demands in this area. Therefore, it would be appropriate to provide a wholesale communication with a comprehensive perspective. It would then make sense to address and address issues for all animal species under the Animal Welfare Act as a whole. There is no doubt that today's government has ambitious objectives in this area. The Hurdal platform describes Norwegian agriculture as world leaders in animal welfare. Norway also has very good assumptions about being able to hold that position, even in the future. Norway has one of the world’s lowest antibiotic consumption. We have an animal husbandry without the preventive use of antibiotics and growth promoters in animal feed. We have a good code that can be built on and further improved. This government has given increased transfers to the Food Authority and still wants to strengthen it. And not least: Norway has a very competent agricultural environment. Part of the manufacturing animal challenge picture is an unupdated operator and the investment is dependent on it. Fortunately, today's government, in cooperation with SV, has granted 200 million. kr extra, earmarked for investment in small and medium-sized applications. It will be crucial in the future to enable agriculture to modernise its equipment so that it is more able to meet current and future requirements. Therefore, aid schemes promoting animal protection measures in agriculture are necessary without requiring new start-up or increased production. I am pleased to note that this coincides with the government's objective. The setting of the Committee may appear to be too tight in the lead and timeframes to fully address the complex challenges that this work will deliver on. Nevertheless, in the context of Norway’s many advantages in this area and our opportunities, the Centre Party looks very much forward to the announced work on a comprehensive animal welfare report.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1352	This is an incredibly happy day. It seems that we have a majority for several of our proposals to improve animal welfare in agriculture. It also makes it a sabbatical day for those of us who are animal lovers – and not least a sabbatical good day for animals. This is an area where there has been a long time since major political changes, but it is also an area where considerable progress has been made in the knowledge base. We know a lot more about what animals need to live more like the species they are, and to have a better life. Because of this knowledge, we also know that there are many of today's rules and practices that lead to animal suffering. Knowledge is there, but laws and regulations have not been fully applied. We know that the minimum requirements are too low, because we know that a pig of 110 kg needs more space than 1 m2. We know that the concrete floor gives pigs ulcers, bone disorders, limpness and joint diseases. We know that pigs are smart and curious animals, and that they need to mess with their cops. Nevertheless, there is no requirement for soft substrate and root material for pigs today. The knowledge base is there and nevertheless the amendments to the minimum requirements have not been included. That is why it is so important that the minimum requirements of the regulation on pig husbandry are strengthened, and I hope that several of the parties will support this proposal, so that those changes are now coming instead of later. We know that for fast-growing breeds of feather often the body becomes too heavy for the skeleton, that they experience bone disorders, stress injuries and poor health. Several food and food chains have already phased out the use of these breeds, and I believe that legislation must keep pace in this area as well. I therefore hope that even more parties will vote with us for that proposal. So it's incredibly important that we get the animal welfare message as early as next year. If it had been that way that we got that message at the end of the ageing period, I am afraid that all the good animal welfare proposals would have been pushed on by the government pending the notification. That's one of the things I'm assuming was the intention of the government by proposing this message in 2024. Now we already get it at the beginning of next year, and that's very good, both for farm animals, for pets and for fish. In the last year, I have visited many peasants in the past. There are many farmers who focus heavily on driving as animal-friendly as possible. I think there are many more farmers who also want to operate that way, and I know that it is fully possible to combine better animal welfare with profitable operations, but then it has to be taken care of. Therefore, I am pleased that it seems to be going through to explore economic instruments in order to make it more profitable to operate animal friendly. I also have to quickly show that Norsvin has come with numbers that show that 70 pst. pig farmers need to be upgraded. Therefore, it is particularly important that these changes in minimum requirements come now, and not later, so that we do not make any changes. Animals have intrinsic value. This is an important step in the right direction, and I hope that several of you will agree with us for our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1372	It is indicative of our view of our fellow creatures that the oversight to take care of them is called the Food Authority and not the Animal Welfare Authority. I myself am an organ donor and have nothing against my fellow human beings providing themselves diligently with my body when I am going to die once, but it is, after all, the United Nations Human Rights Commission that upholds my rights, not an organ commission. We have great expectations for the forthcoming animal welfare announcement in terms of both speed and content. The previous government set an important milestone when it shut down the fur industry, and we also see that in the recommendation we are adopting here today, there are actually parties from the previous government that ensure the majority of important progress. What is the new major reform that the new government has planned to do for the animals? Then we must not forget that the reason why we are now, finally, taking advantage of animal welfare measures, is that the Animal Welfare Alliance, the Animal Freedom Network, the NOAH and all the other organisations, and not least the competent and committed individuals, have been working for many years to raise unsustainable conditions in Norwegian animal husbandry. Now we're concerned that this is actually being followed up. There are clear signals sent by a majority on the Stortinget, but the concrete regulatory changes and follow-up in practice are the responsibility of the government to implement. We have to follow the opposition on the Storting, but the government has to show that it can carry out animal welfare in practice, not just in terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1383	Animals don't have enough in Norway, and how we treat our animals, says something about what society we live in. Therefore, it is good that we should now strengthen well-being and that a number of measures will be implemented that will improve animal welfare when they are adopted. Of course, we in SV would like us to go even further today, that we got more done for the farmers who work every day to make the animals feel good, but who live in a stressed economic situation that is demanding. We would like to see a force for animal welfare for farmed fish, stricter requirements for the transport of animals in agriculture, a significant strengthening of the area requirements for pig husbandry, and the phasing out of fast-growing breeds of poultry. There would be a significant boost to animal welfare. But there is one measure I want to warn against, and that is the proposal from the Right, the Progress Party, the Red and the Left that we should address the problem of animal welfare violations, with increased penalties and fines. That's because increasing penalties is a symbol policy that doesn't help animals. Penalty will not solve the problem of animal welfare violations; it will not cause the problems to disappear. And it will go into a wide range of politicians who buy a narrative that if we just increase the penalty level, we show action and show that we're taking the problem seriously. The problem is that it is wrong and that it violates some of what most people in Norway agree to: that we are based on human criminal justice and relatively low levels of punishment. For what should the penalty function be? Well, it should be that crime should not initially happen and that those who commit criminal acts should be rehabilitated. And we know that the longer you're in prison, the less likely you're to get back to society. In recent years, politicians have often resorted to increasing penalties to show that they are capable of action and take a problem seriously, and that error can be repeated today. Over the period 2000–2016, the prison rate in Norway has increased by 30 pst. The penalty level since 2010 has increased by 52 pst. We have increased penalties, significantly higher in Norway than in the rest of the Nordic region. Starting a criminal race now is a bad idea. Increasing the level of penalties piece by piece and divided for one sector without looking at the whole of the criminal system is stupid. What is a good idea is to strengthen regulation and control, and to look at the criminal system and make adjustments requires more thorough and comprehensive work than the proposal on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1392	What is perhaps alarming for most people in this matter is that especially the Right, the Progress Party, the Left in the setting – and I believe that the Christian People's Party also signals support for these proposals – supports offensive measures for animal welfare. That's very good. In recent years, the problem has been to include precisely these parties in offensive measures for animal welfare. On 13 March 2017, the same parties voted in favour of a proposal from the SV to ask the Government ‘to review and update animal husbandry regulations so that they are up-to-date under the Animal Welfare Act’. On 27 February 2020, the same parties adopted all the SV's proposals on animal welfare, including: ‘The government is asking for the minimum living conditions for pigs to be reviewed by the government with a view to introducing stricter requirements for the living environment which allow pigs to exercise their natural and species-typical needs to a greater extent’. They're all of a sudden inside today. Or... «The government is asked by the government to specify in the legislation what kind of physical handling of non-authorised livestock in agriculture.» They also voted against that. Last year, the previous government party, with the Progress Party, voted down a series of proposals from SV which were dealt with in spring, that access to outdoor areas for pigs and poultry should be extended, that cow and calf relations should be established, that alternatives to surgical castration should be addressed, and that there should be a greater area per animal in poultry and pig industries. My point is that there is going to be some animal welfare washing in this case. That's good, because when the result is that it's starting to accumulate a multiple to strengthen animal welfare, it's definitely positive. But there's a back carpet here, that one for eight years has consistently voted it down. The fact that it takes so long to get this animal welfare message started is because it's a work that should have been started a long time ago. It should have been started under the previous government, much earlier than it actually was. Nevertheless, my SV that it should be prioritised and put on high speed, but we must not forget that there is a history here. One does not come in here as if nothing has happened before. Many have done so before; suggestions have been voted down. There is a process that has been suspended. I just want to support the post of my associate representative, Unneland. It's beginning to change the criminal law from one single matter to another – I'm assuming that all the parties here have a warning against it. That punishment is the way to get better relationships – no, it is through better regulation, above all. That's what's the road to better animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1411	To the last post: I don't know where the representative Knag County has been for the last four years. Now we have had the big fight, with a civil majority, where we end the fur industry in Norway. It's been the big fight in the last few years. We've had rounds of rounds in the Great Britain both on how to implement it and on how to implement it, and it's done by a civil majority. Now we're taking further steps to improve animal welfare. I have to say that this is a very good day. Here we have an impact – and a broad impact in many important areas. I have to say, first of all, that it is good that the majority of the animal welfare reports that are coming are intended to cover both farm animals, pet animals and fish farming. There are many comments in this case, and I think that we also need to do a thorough job there. So to the Council of State: As has been pointed out by the representative, Bjørlo, it says in proposal No. 1 that one should look at ‘incentives that will increase animal welfare in the pig industry’. That's what we have to look at now. Looking at agricultural subsidy schemes, investment aid and production aid will be one way to achieve this. Then I'm glad that it's the majority that we're now going to investigate markings for animal welfare. In some eco-labelling schemes animal welfare is part of it, including: with organic production, but I think there are many who will pay more for meat and dairy products that we know are produced with extra good animal welfare. One thing is that we have to raise the demands, as we need, but we also have to reward the farmers who want to go further, and they need to get paid for the extra good animal welfare that they're facilitating. It may be a state label scheme, which they have in Denmark for pigs, chickens and cows – we think we need to look at that in more detail. But we already have the animal protection mark, which the Animal Alliance is behind, and the government can, to support it, provide support right now. Among other things, support can be given to farmers so that it is more reasonable for them to join that labelling system. So while we're working on what's coming, we can also support what's already there. Then we have to use public acquisitions also for better animal welfare. Many countries around us use it for more environmentally friendly production, and we can do it, but we can also use it to improve animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1424	It's a big topic we're discussing today, and we from the Government Party recognise that it's so big that it takes time to get a proper big message to lay the foundation for the very best policy, which we'll hopefully be a few in this Chamber. I think that's a lot we're a few about, and that's a good starting point. So this of course has to go as fast as possible. I want to take to heart the situation of a farmer who is unable to walk in the feather, i.e., the cases where there are simply problems at the back. If any of us big-time representatives don't get us into the room, there's at least two of us from the same committee who's supposed not to come and take part in the debate, but there's something else we're talking about here. When it comes to production, livestock, life and animal welfare, etc., it goes without saying that when things go wrong, there is so much greater range. It is quite right, as the representative of André Skkelstad mentioned in his statement, that the Food Safety Authority should have a guide function, and I was also in my post, that this is a matter of consulting and following closely with the manufacturers. I mean, we can't overestimate just that -- how much it means to make better animal welfare. Because no matter how much stricter the rules and penalties we're going to impose, the problem is the one that can't cope with it. They need help. So this overseeing, following up and consulting is an extremely important part of it, which we're going to bet on further. I thought at the same time there's a bit of a strange debate. It is pointed out that 20 years have passed since an animal welfare message was received, and the Westgaard-Halle representative criticises the government for taking the time to make a solid animal welfare message, as we wish, because we say she will come in 2024. They used themselves almost eight years before they announced that a message was coming, and she said in her reply to the Council of State that there was a red-green government eight years before it again. I think that's a very thin argument to say that we should have been out in the past. It was also much closer to the big message that came 20 years ago, it says itself. Time has passed, and now we're doing the best we can to speed up, so it's going to be a solid message to come as soon as possible. Finally, I want to take to heart what Alfred Bjørlo from the Left says, where he mocks that this is going to be so late, while there is, like, a question of judicial reform. There it is worth remembering that we had a court order until last year, which has existed for many years, and which is now about being able to recover. It's clear that there's a completely different process behind the possible recovery, that we hope, than it's going to write an animal welfare message, that I think we all have to be as good as possible to give us the best possible basis for good political decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1437	I notice again that the Central Party believes it is much more complicated to make an animal welfare message than to reverse both the whole regional Norwegian administration level and the Norwegian judicial system at the same time in a shorter time, but I don't think we're going to get any further in that debate today. I thought I'd briefly comment on a couple of things. The representative Hansson of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European From the point of view of the Left, we believe that this is an important issue with important points raised by the Greens. Now, the representative proposal we have been dealing with here has gone to farm animals. In connection with that, we have run quite thorough processes of recording rounds from all actors and have received a collection of knowledge from everyone interested in the matter, which is also part of the work that has been done in connection with this message. The corresponding process has not been linked to farmed fish. Therefore, we believe it is natural to come back to this in the message that will be created, but I would like to say that the Greens are concrete and clear that there should be strict animal welfare requirements in the farming industry as well. So we're far on the road along that line. The council said that she might better someone else in this room know what this is about because she's coming from the garden. I can say, like the representative of Skelstad and perhaps more here, that I also come from the garden and have grown up with animals. There are actually people up in the garden who don't smoke at the Center Party. I know well what agriculture is in. That's precisely why I'm also very busy that if we're going to have a good agriculture with a broad anchoring of people in the future, animal welfare is important. We have good animal welfare in agriculture, but we know that knowledge of animal welfare is changing. We know that consumer requirements change. We know that this is an area that must be constantly evolving. It's hugely important. That's why I thought it would be strange – when we know that it's actually 20 years since the last time we had an animal welfare report, and then it's going to take even more time before a new one comes – that we can't go straight at any of the points where we know there are special challenges today, like in the pig industry. I think that's what everyone wanted, both agriculture, consumers and, of course, animals. Once again, this surprise of my government party is not that one is dissident in any proposal, but that one simply rejects everything – absolutely everything – and says that because everything is related to everything, we cannot adopt any concrete progress now. I think that's an unfortunate attitude. We are forced to show clearly from this room that we take animal welfare seriously, both by introducing immediate measures and by quickly putting in place a concrete and good animal welfare message that allows Norway to continue to be in the first row on animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1450	Let there be no doubt: for the Workers' Party is animal welfare very important, and we are very pleased that there is now a big message about animal welfare. I also want to praise the Left to raise an important issue. That's not what the Right says, that the Red-Green government didn't do anything about this in eight years. There came a new animal welfare law that established that animals have a self-esteem, regardless of the utility they needed for us humans. It's very important. Animals must be well treated and protected from unnecessary stresses and loads. Ensuring good animal welfare is and will be important for Norwegian food production and for Norwegian farmers. A more quality livestock that gives more value to society than what we find in a number of other countries is positive in order to ensure the digestion of Norwegian food and Norwegian farmers in the future. Good animal welfare and low-medical animal health provide safety for people, and this provides competitive advantage for Norwegian food production. Then we've seen images in the media, for example. from the pig industry, which is totally unacceptable. This has to be hard to deal with. As we've already heard, there's important work going on to improve this. We also need to ensure that the Food Authority is well-equipped to carry out its social mission in order to ensure good animal welfare. Unannounced supervision by the Food Authority is one of several instruments that can contribute to improving animal welfare. We in the Workers' Party believe it is a fundamental value in our society that animals should feel good. There are many good proposals that have been raised here, but we believe that this must be seen in full, and that is what the Minister of Agriculture has told us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1463	I would like to thank you for a good debate. Then I just have to complain about the two farmers sitting in the hall, the representatives of Skkelstad and Holand, that I was the only one who lived on the farm. But I would like to stress that the previous government has been sitting for eight years without delivering anything on an animal welfare note. We launched animal welfare messages in the Hurdal platform. We've been in government for 100 days. We are already doing that work, so this government is taking animal welfare seriously. I must also say that it is not that we do not have a code of animal welfare today. We're developing the code all the time. We're going to do that at the same time as we're going to work on an animal welfare message. I can mention that the department now has a legislative package for farmed animals for treatment. It contains very many important proposals for welfare requirements for both pigs, cattle, smallpox and not least poultry, so it is also important to include in this debate. I want to make it clear that the government is very concerned about good animal welfare for all animals. That's exactly why we're launching an animal welfare report for farmed animals. There has been a lot of talk about farmed animals, fish and aquaculture here today. There has been not so much talk about pets. Looking at the concerns of the Food Authority, more than half of them are about pets. That dimension is also important in the debate. The other day, I visited some farmers who were running pigs. What made the impression on me was when they told me about the invasion of their feathers by animal protection activists. The psychological stress that is now felt by many in the pig industry is quite cool. Take it with you, too, in the debate, because I may feel that the debate today has been more about pigs than it has been about animal welfare for all animals. I would also like to say that this government is concerned that we are still going to have pig production in Norway. We are going to follow the welfare programme that is there today, as well as improving the conditions for all animals in the animal welfare message that we are now working on. We in the government have also strengthened the Food Authority. The last government cut dramatically in the Food Authority. In the budget agreement with SV, we have strengthened food supervision significantly, precisely in order to be able to exercise supervision. I'd say this government delivers quite well on animal welfare for the first 100 days, and we're going to follow up the message. I am looking forward to a good cooperation with Stortinget when the message is subsequently received.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1478	The representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1484	I would like to thank the Stortinget for an exciting debate. On mine over eight years here, this is the first time there's proper dynamics in animal welfare bags. I came in 2013. It was blue rule. Left voice only for fur-farming bans, otherwise against all our proposals. It was black seas, to say it like that, for animal welfare sakes. Now we get a completely different type of dynamics. It's an interest, it seems, in all the parties to do something for animal welfare. We are now waiting for the long work on an animal welfare message, which will of course address itself to what has been said and done and meant and reported in this matter. It becomes interesting to follow along, and I think this fits as a hand in handling while raising the farm, raising the farmer, getting more farmers and getting less production pressure, so that one can also get better animal welfare through it – the legislation and the economy of the farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1491	It has been interesting to sit here and on the right today, and I look forward to a really well-worked animal welfare message. Animals have intrinsic value. I have a background as a farmer, have been in the welfare department of the municipality and have held on and looked at this from several angles. Every animal has its own value, and that means we have to make sure every animal in Norway is well. That means that such special branding schemes, where we make such a luxury variant where one in a way buys out someone and lets it be good relationships around them, are not good enough. We need to have much bigger ambitions. Every animal in Norway needs to feel good, and if we're going to get it, it's one health. The farmer and the animals are two sides of the same thing. As we approach farming, when we consider getting investment funds, so that the animals can fit, so that all dairy cows come into action, and one can test out the cow/calf problem, is when we have to set up in this room – and I hope one will. So we have to have education courses that focus on this right here. Here is a very good starting point for Norwegian agriculture and also for farming, but we need to put this clearly on the agenda through legislation and with schemes that follow the legislation for all animal species. Norwegian food production and Norwegian animal husbandry shall be skinned. The strongest moment I have had in my time as previously elected to the Bonde team was to stand behind and take the word after a farmer stood on the pulpit and said: I could become such an animal welfare case. After too much work, too much stress and bad economics, he went to a click. Those who deal with domestic animals can actually end up in prison when they get sick, because of these things here, so this is about the welfare of the animals, and it's about the welfare of those who feed the animals. We have to take care of that in Norway – both of them. I look forward to a really good animal welfare message.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1506	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1523	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1530	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. I would also like to thank the County Spokesman of More and Romesdal and representatives from Flanders who have contributed to knowledge and good recordings and good dialogue. This has helped to shed light on the matter and has provided a good basis for the work. It is especially demanding for the World Heritage fjords with the zero emission requirement, precisely because they are protected. The protection applies not only to fjords, but also to the surrounding area. We have a responsibility to protect and care for our common interests and our common resources, both for ourselves and for future generations. At the same time, we shall also take responsibility for the local environment and the districts for their potential to survive in the transition we are facing. The development of zero emission technology before shipping is fast, including for cruise ships. Electricization is not the only option for a zero-emission conversion. Hydrogen is one example, and there may come cruise ships now in the World Heritage fjord that can go on hydrogen or ammonia, as well as on power. For years to come, this will be able to contribute to zero emissions in the world heritage fjords. The requirement for green shipping is also an international requirement. The EU aims to halve emissions from cruise ships by 2030. There is today a joint committee that makes its recommendation, which does not go beyond the zero emission requirement, but we ask the government to come back to the UK about how the government can help to help meet the power demand, both in the Near Island Fjord and in the Geiranger Fjord. The recommendation of the Committee for Roman numeral II shall be the subject of a joint committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1543	Right is occupied by our heritage fjords, and the Geiranger fjord is like an adventure. The fjord and the surrounding area are exceptionally beautiful, and it is among other things. above fjord is part of UNESCO's heritage. One can take the fjord cruise or go to the fjord safari, visit the beautiful points of view or go up to the Skageflå Mountain Garden, one of the many landscaped mountain gardens that lie up in the steep mountain faces of Geiranger, or one can stay at the historic Hotel Union in Geiranger and take a pleasant stop surrounded by some of the most beautiful nature the globe has to offer. The beautiful Geirangerfjord is located on Sunnmaere, in the Mora and Romesdal counties, and it notices a good one. Today's document 8 deals with, unfortunately does not deal with Nærøyfjorden and Aurlandsfjorden, which are two of the world's most beautiful and dramatic fjords. They're in Westland. It is simply incomprehensible that the Progress Party should keep them out of this situation. When they have the same challenges, it's kind of special. It is no wonder that the two co-sponsors from the Western Progressive Party did not participate in the debate today. Pollution and zero emission decisions create challenges. Undoubtedly, this heritage area is as important as Geiranger and has the same challenges as zero emission requirements. Nærøyfjorden starts in Gudvangen and meets Aurlandsfjorden further out by the mountain Beitelen. From Beittelen they continue together until they meet the 204 km Sognefjord. Fortunately, the entire committee was with us in a wording for decisions that embrace both World Heritage fjords. For the Right, it is both important and right that the State follow up on the consequences of its decisions. Decisions on zero emission require investment. There are many solutions to achieve zero emission requirements, but electricity and battery demand is a good charging infrastructure. Biogas, hydrogen and ammonia are energy carriers that are being used, but they are not always as well available yet. There is good reason to look at the power needs of the World Heritage fjords as a result of existing business, including ferries that run the fjords today, and not least in view of what future business needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1554	It is not difficult to understand that the representative Trellevik would like to have with Nærøjjord, but it may not be difficult to understand who has written this proposal. That's why Geirangerfjord and our area are with it, but Nærøyfjord is equally important, so there's no problem. That being said, a decision has been taken in this room on zero emission for the World Heritage fjords. That's what the challenge is: one has taken a zero emission decision by 2026. In 2025, the Tier III requirement comes. That means there are only a few ships that can come then. So there's LNG or LBG, and there's very few ships that will be ready to contract into the fjords of 2025. In 2026 it is ‘empty fjord’. There is nothing to suggest that there will be zero-emission ships until 2026. Until 2028 we know what's contracted by ships, and there's no zero-eject ships that could enter the fjord, probably not until 2030, maybe later. We'll see what happens when it comes to technology. Anyway, there's a need for power. That's the background of the proposal, that one is forced to have the stream in. If one can board the ship e.g. in Geirangerfjorden, Stranda or Hellesylt, the industry and the port community and others are very clear that one can transport tourists with zero-emission ships from the areas, i.e. smaller ships, with 350-400 passengers, and they will have a fantastic experience in the fjord – quite quietly, with zero emissions. Different solutions can be selected there. So there's a lot of possibilities, but then you have to have a stream in the range. That's why we've pointed out that the important thing for Geirangerfjord is to get the flow into Hellesylt in the first round, as part one. The problem is there's no stream into Hornindal, there's got to be a new line from Sogndal to Hornindal to a couple of hundred million, and from Hornindal to Hellesylt it's 220 million. kr. So almost half a billion could have to be used to get power to Hellesylt. There are 2.5 MW available, and a hydrogen factory is to be built to use two of the megawatts, so there's not much left for anything else. When it's Geiranger, we're talking about a billion, because there's two alternatives there. It's either drilling a pond tunnel from Tafjord and right through the mountain, to a billion, or laying a sea cable. Sea cable won't have one, because there's so much mountaineering in the spring. Ergo we're left with a billion into the area. Option to build reinforced lines or to do something with some small power plants that can be built, but it is not that easy in a world heritage area. The starting point is that it's extremely exciting. That's why I think it's very good that the committee now has a collective proposal where we ask the government to come back, and there's no negativity considering that we're also getting with the Nærøjfjord. Obviously, a zero emission decision has been taken here without considering the consequences. So I'm glad that the committee gives a clear order, because that's what's necessary to be able to stream into these areas, which is absolutely important in order to get zero emissions to actually become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1571	The President will believe that the representative Sve wants to address minority proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1576	It's good that the president reminds me of that. Of course I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1581	The representative Frank Edvard Sve then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1586	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, knows this area that he owns, so he describes the challenges well. The storing decision to make the World Heritage fjords free of emissions by 2026 came after reports of very poor air quality due to large emissions from ships. Demands from the government are an important tool for initiating innovation and the development of zero-emission solutions, and the maritime industry was aware that it was important to hold on to the date when this matter was up for discussion a year ago. Both nationally and internationally, there is a lot of development work going on to produce alternative fuels for oil. Entrepreneurs have complied with the decision and large resources have been lost to meet the emission requirement. Most likely it is ammonia and hydrogen that are future for large ships, and when it is in place, it is perhaps most sensible that they use it as power supply even when they are at berth. Release-free ships with capacity of 300 passengers are most likely to be ready before the deadline, by 2026, precisely because of the decision taken by the Stortinget in 2018. Being early in technology is not without risk, and it is important that the government follow up its decision and create security around the transition both for the maritime industry, the municipality and the tourism industry in the area – everyone concerned by the decision – not least in view of the special situation that has existed now, with the covid-19 pandemic up to the whole. Instead of the Storting instructing the government to use large public funds to build very expensive land-based power plants for large cruise ships, we think that a rather important thing should be how to facilitate a conversion that also involves more local value creation than today. There's a lot of big business that doesn't know what's possible, so here's the good dialogue between the municipality, the travel industry, the community of competences and the state. Stream is of course a theme, but it is wrong to go into the details of our part. We've seen hairy targets in this case. There are no simple exercises to cut emissions from large ships, especially in the World Heritage Sites. But continuing as before is not an option. So let's respect all those who have seen energy and thinking power to find the solutions, rather put everything in place to achieve the goal of zero-emission World Heritage fjords, including what's about conversion. With this I will present our proposal, No. 1, in addition to the position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1603	The representative of Birgit Oline Kjerstad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1608	So we're going to halve the emissions from shipping in Norway by 2030, both in order to achieve the emission obligations that have been notified to the United Nations, the climate agreement we have with the EU, and not least the objective that the government set and that the Left agrees with, that we should cut 55 pst. by 2030. Then you have to reduce at least 50 pst. on shipping. It is also the basis of the Green Shipping Action Plan presented by the previous government, and it is confirmed in the 2030 climate plan, which has also been dealt with in the Stortinget. Of course, in order to achieve the goal, electricity and battery are one solution, but it is equally important to consider the possibility of using hydrogen, green or blue, or also ammonia where production is free of emissions. We also have to include biogas as almost zero emissions, sometimes it's also negative. In this case it is about the world heritage fjords. In 2018, Stortinget decided to set a zero emission requirement in the World Heritage fjords by 2026. It applies to tourist ships and ferries. So the one discussion that has been about cargo ships in Nærøyfjorden, I believe you can handle, even without breaking that decision from 2018. In the proposal there is very great attention to power needs, power from land, and power supply. It's an important part of the question, but we also need to look at the possibility that biogas, hydrogen, ammonia can be part of the solution in the world heritage fjords – not least because it's world heritage, so installing new power lines is difficult to get into itself, especially in Geiranger. As a final point, I would say the following: this is a decision. We're going to have zero emissions by 2026. And then it's the government's responsibility to come back to Stortinget with how it's going to be implemented. It has to be implemented in cooperation with the municipalities and actors, but the government has to look at how we are going to do it, what solutions we are going to have, to what extent power from land is part of this, to have the power demand – which we also get a decision on here – but also to what extent the state and the government have to support up to do so, because it is clear that this costs, and then we have to be there to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1622	We have to close the debate on case No. 7 because it's voting at 7 o'clock. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1634	The size is ready to go to voting in the case no. 1 to 5 and 9 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1646	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Nils T. Bjørke on behalf of the members of the Presidency Svein Harberg, Nils T. Bjørke and Morten Wold proposal No 2, by Masud Gharahkhani, on behalf of the members of the Presidency, Masud Gharahkhani and Kari Henriksen, proposal No 3, by Mr Ingrid Fisaa, Member of the Presidency the proposals No 4-8, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 6 and 7, from Red. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Grand total asks the Presidency to draw up proposals for guidelines which ensure that there are less differences between the overall salary level in Norway and the remunerations for high-ranking representatives, members of the government and Prime Minister.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The vote will ask the Presidency to come back with the necessary legislative changes in order to put a ceiling on retirement benefits or compensation on retirement to 62.4 per cent of the previous monthly income of the gross domestic product.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘Government members, prime minister, state secretaries and political advisers shall not be granted a retirement benefit or a refund on retirement exceeding 62.4 per cent of previous monthly income.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1690	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Presidency, pending the review of the Stortingen holiday money scheme, to shorten the remuneration of the representatives in June against the holiday money they earned in 2021 and to come back with proposals for necessary legislative changes.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1707	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from President Ingrid Fisaa. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The remuneration committee shall be wound up. The annual adjustment of the public-elected allowances is made directly by the Presidency. The Majority asks the Presidency to make the necessary proposals to implement the following changes related to the regulation of political incentives: This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. The remuneration of the staging representatives is adjusted annually with a crown supplement equal to the average wage paid to an employee in the previous year. b. A rule is introduced that the remuneration of the aggregate representatives shall never reach the level of salaries to the 10 per cent highest paid in Norway, and the 91 percentage point is used as an absolute limit. This means that this ceiling will be effective if the above adjustments give too much compared to those with the highest income. c. Government members and Prime Minister are subject to the same regulatory regime, with 1.4 and 1.75 times the gross domestic product respectively being taken into account. The background of these numbers is the difference of the day. d. The deposit allowance shall be adjusted downwards to a level below the 91 percentage point prior to the implementation of this new model.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1741	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority requests the Presidency to make proposals in which remuneration for depositors is reduced to a maximum median income by 1.5 and then adjusted annually by a crown amount corresponding to the median income trend of the previous year. The remuneration of government councils and prime minister shall be set at 1,25 and 1,75 times the remuneration of large-scale representatives.’;» The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1759	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the members of the Presidency Masud Gharakhani and Kari Henriksen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The regulation of the remuneration of large-scale representatives is frozen until the government’s board of directors’ salaries in the country and the Grand nominated representative board has presented its conclusions.’ The Left Socialist Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1776	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the members of the Presidency Svein Harberg, Nils T. Bjørke and Morten Wold. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Regulation of remuneration for grossing-up representatives shall take place as soon as possible after the salary settlement in 2022 after re-alignment from the remuneration committee, disregarding the trend in wages and salaries in 2020.’;» The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1823	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e1884	During the debate, Mr Jørgensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left, the Red and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 14 is replaced by the following: The grantor may take individual decisions under Section 12 requiring the recovery of unlawful aid for up to 10 years after the grant of the aid. If a third party brings an action against the grantor concerning the return obligation under Section 12, the period shall be suspended until the Court has finally ruled in the case.» Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's recommendation to Section 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2159	The remainder of the Committee's opinion shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2169	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2179	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2237	The next speaker is Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2242	The proposal to introduce zero-emission requirements from cruise ships in World Heritage fjords by 2026 at the latest was promoted by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in connection with the handling of Report by the Storting. St. 41 for 2016–2017, 2030 Climate Strategy – Norwegian transformation into European cooperation. The proposal was adopted unanimously. Without the provision of shore-side electricity for cruise ships in Geiranger or close to neighbouring fjord areas, it is not possible to achieve the objective of zero emissions from cruise ships by 2026. The electricity grid in the area is currently undersized in order to provide enough energy for this type of shore power plant, especially in Geiranger. We in the Christian People's Party are working with the Progress Party on the proposals to ask the government to provide sufficient power to the Geirangerfjord area by 2026, and to make a plan to help finance this. We do that because we stand by what we agreed to propose and adopt in 2018. We therefore demand that the government follow up Decision 672 of 3 May 2018, because in that way the world heritage area of the Geirangerfjord will appear as a global pilot. So we in the Christian People's Party have this harder on than the Green, SV and Red Environmental Party to ensure that the zero-emission requirement is more than a flocculation. Land power in the Geirangerfjord will provide a very strong incentive to develop and commercialise new future technologies for large passenger ships. Northern Xplorer has already announced earlier in winter that it is possible to have emission-free ships on hydrogen and battery, for 300 passengers, ready for the 2025 World Heritage fjords. Sufficient current capacity must now be ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2253	Norway has a surplus of power in normal years, and that we produce more power than we use, gives us good assumptions for electrification and cut greenhouse gas emissions and facilitates the reduction of local air pollution. The government is working on how we're going to increase our power generation. Yesterday we presented the plans for the first large-scale expansion of sea wind at sea in Norway, which facilitates more power for the increasing demand we see through the electrification of society. But as we know, it doesn't keep producing the force; it also has to be transported to where it's going to be used. In a long-term country like Norway, a well-developed electricity grid is a prerequisite for our being able to have lights in the houses and industry throughout the country. The Government is concerned that the mains power supply needs to be reinforced and that the concessional processing time should be reduced. The operation and development of the mains network itself is the responsibility of the electricity companies and it is regulated that the transmission system companies are obliged to relate to new consumption. In cases requiring a concession, energy authorities are examining applications for action. Increasing network capacity takes time. I would therefore like to stress that it is important to wish to have connectivity concretely and in good time to be notified to the network company. It is only when this is done that work on identifying and planning network actions is started. When large, new infrastructure is to be built, with high costs both for nature and for the surrounding environment of people, there is a need for thorough processes, especially in this area, where we need to take into account the world heritage status of planning. The Government is concerned that interested parties are heard along the way and has processes in place to do so. In response to future power needs, it is natural that we meet demand with more power and more transmission capacity. Today there is no available capacity in the grid in the Geiranger area to relate to higher consumption. I would like to point out that although electrification is an important measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and local air pollution, there are also other climate-friendly solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in shipping. The government is concerned that we support if necessary technological developments, including: to achieve the objectives of zero emissions in the world heritage fjords. Enova is one of our most important instruments in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2273	State councils talk a little about how the process is to get power and wires in place, etc. It's not a secret that in the project of making world heritage fjords free of emissions, it's a bit like making hens and eggs at the same time: is there hydrogen? Is that ammonia? It's about the maritime industry, it's about the travel industry and the footprint of the Norwegian travel industry. Will the Council of State ensure that in this situation, those to whom the decision of the Storting is given are given security and diligence?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2278	Thank you for the question. It is clear that this affects very many of the responsibilities of the Councils, and fortunately for that, because I believe that when we are going to achieve the objectives we have on zero emission solutions and net zero emissions in all sectors, it is going to be about the whole spectrum of policy. We have to get it into everything. Zero emissions in the fjords will require that we switch to zero-emission technology even when we sail in the fjords, not only when you are connected to land. I am aware that regional and local network companies such as Morenett and Tindra Net have received numerous enquiries over several years about a significant power demand in Geiranger. However, the network companies inform that the demand for new power has not been concreteised by actual orders, which the network operators need in order to launch the necessary investigations. But of course we're going to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2285	The challenge when it comes to the world heritage fjord Geirangerfjord with its surrounding area is that the industry, port services and others are clear. The business community wants to build a zero-emission vessel to be able to transport fjords, either with hydrogen, ammonia or electricity. Boats of 350-400 passengers can be built now, even regionally. There is no problem to get. The problem is that it's necessary to be power in the first phase, to Hellesylt. We have received information from Sognekraft that one is required to build reinforcements from Sogn to Hornindal and further from Hornindal to Hellesylt. The price is fast between 400 and 500 million. kr. Will the Council of State and the Government take the initiative to initiate the process of doing so? Because it's all, most important as part one to ensure that one can run with zero emission on the fjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2292	First, I want to start by giving the Progress Party a boost to raise a matter that is about how we can replace fossil energy with renewable energy. If we are to achieve our climate objectives, we must do so in more sectors. So to the question, it's clear that precisely because of the system we have, it's important that the network companies know about the consumption that is expected, and it's important that it is notified. We do have different support schemes, including: through Enova, which contributes to the establishment of shore-side power plants, which are the means by which this can be achieved. As the representative points out, there is a great need for more power grid expansion, but it actually takes a little bit of time, precisely because we have the concession treatment we have. But we have the power network range, which is now working and will deliver its position on 15 June, which I hope will come up with some suggestions for solutions on how to shorten that concession period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2299	It's all right to say that you want to help build lines faster. From the network it is said that it can quickly go 8-10 years before one can get the lines in place to Hellesylt and to Geiranger. In order to use zero-eject boats, smaller boats, you need to have access to currents on the edge of the continent. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that it takes time with line capacity, and it worries the area violently when it is due to put it in place. Also for ferry operations, where at present there may only be currents that are the option, a strengthening of the mains power grid will be important in this way. So the question is, will the Council of State help reduce the duration of the concessional treatment, especially from Sogn to Hornindal and Hornindal to Hellesylt? So that's the time and the way to get it in place, and there's a need to interact as much as possible to slow down the treatment of concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2304	The answer to the question is yes. This government shall facilitate the reduction of the concessional treatment period. But I want to stress that the problem here is first and foremost that this should have been planned a long time ago. We're going to do what we can to fix this, that's by trying to set up an entire network. But I would like to stress that it is important that all needs are notified and concreteised, and that they are notified to Statnett, who is responsible for the development that will take place. I hope that the power network selection, among others. provides suggestions on how to shorten the concession period. At the same time, this is a world heritage area, and we need to take into account nature, environment and expansion. We actually have to weigh those considerations up to each other in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2312	Just a little follow-up question: it's probably true that we've debated here, that it's not certain that one needs such huge amounts in Geiranger, because on the day of zero emission on the cruise ship, it's probably ammonia and hydrogen, and one can produce its own power. But there's a need to get zero emissions on all the car traffic and bus traffic in Geiranger. We're very concerned about the traffic when the zero emission decision comes in 2025-2026, that there are buses coming in from Olden and Ålesund and other areas, and that we get extremely many buses that are not zero, into the area and get a lot of pollution there, and then we sit back with the blue smoke. Ergo is very important that we also get enough power in place to be able to electrify what is needed in Geiranger on land when it comes to cars and other areas. Would it be possible to think that it can be opened up for less power expansion in Geiranger, gentle, where there are actually plans about it, completely invisible? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2317	The transmission system operators themselves are responsible for operating and developing the mains network in their concession areas and for providing network services to their customers. However, although I am aware that both regional and local network companies have received numerous enquiries, over several years, about a significant power demand in Geiranger, the network companies inform that demand for new power has not been concreteised by actual orders, which, of course, the network companies need to initiate the necessary investigations. It must also be my answer, that it is important that needs are actually notified, so that the transmission system operators can start the necessary planning, because they actually have an obligation through today's regulation to offer access to the network to those who want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2322	If we start with the proposal on power generation in the UNESCO World Heritage Site, then I think UNESCO is reacting quickly, so I think that is difficult. But this matter is urgent, because the decision came in 2018. We've got a Green Shipping Program. It's not like it's been silent. There are eleven boats entering the Nærøyfjord, and there are also shore power solutions made there, with a battery. But now it's about the big ships and how we're going to do this. With the decision, it's the government's responsibility to find out what is required and how we're going to get this done. Then my question becomes: this is not really with the Minister of Oil and Energy, it is just as much with the Minister of Climate and Environment, who has green shipping. Is there now a cooperation going on so that we get a case back to Stortinget about how we get to the zero emission target, and how much does it require state support?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2331	It is such that there is a work in which we coordinate different sectors, not least in the transport sector, which is an important area. We're going to electrify all parts of our society. The transport sector is part of it, but also the industry and all these others. So that coordination is going on with the government. I agree with the representative of Elvesuen that this has of course happened quite a lot. Support has been granted to shore-side power plants for cruise ships, e.g. in Ålesund, Bergen, Haugesund, Flåm, Nordfjordeid, Tromsø, and Oslo. They've got over 187 million in total. kr i support. It's clear that that work has to go on if we're going to achieve these goals. But here, in this area, it's about network capacity to get it into.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2338	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2345	Shore currents can often be a good option to reduce discharges from ships, but not always. In any case, landflow alone will not allow large ships to sail in Geirangerfjord by 2026. The report from Morenett shows what is needed to produce the current to Geiranger and Hellesylt, and numbers are quite high. Large shore-side power plants require a lot of power. They exist, but they are not imposed by force. There is a lot to think about here, and there are a lot of solutions to be found, including conversion, when it comes to taking care of the travel and working life objectives themselves. It is important that the Stortinge’s decision is closely followed up by the government, in close cooperation with all actors. We're going to cut out and halve them by 2030, and it's not just about Geiranger, but also about our industrial potential in the maritime industry. The cause of making the world heritage fjords free of emissions is a great opportunity for Norway, both to take care of nature, to develop new maritime technology, to bring down emissions and to market our iconic travel destinations, which are the World Heritage fjords, and I will take them all with me. We have a forward-looking maritime industry, but we don't have the shipyards that build the largest ships. Our yards are best at smaller special buildings, and they've just converted to this segment with less cruise ships. Even if there are bumps in the way of this case, we must seize the opportunity to create positive change. Doing right can be a win-win for both man, climate and nature. With Norway's fainting oil revenues, we have an extra responsibility to take a little bit of the cost of driving out emission-free solutions before shipping, like in the world heritage fjords, and to take a little bit of the economic risk it's driving out new technologies that speed up the transition, away from fossil energy, which will benefit the whole world. We have a short time, and it has to be handled, but this I believe we can do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2356	By 2026 there is empty fjord in Geiranger. We don't have to worry about that once. One says that one can have a ship with 300 passengers going in there. Yes, there may be ships with both 300 and 400 passengers entering Geiranger with zero emissions, but they can thus walk from Stranda or from Hellesylt into Geiranger and back. That's the starting point, but then they either have to be charged on the current, or they have to go on the hydrogen. But hydrogen is not a quick fix. There is no automatic in it; there are challenges technologically. They're going to solve it, but there's nothing that's 100 pst. in place on the day of today. Many think so, but it's actually not, so it might be demanding to reach it to 2026. There's four more years, and then you can't get what's going on until there's actually an empty fjord in Geiranger. There are usually 400,000 cruise passengers coming in there. 220 of the world's largest cruise ships go to Geiranger. They're adding another 100 million. kr in the North fjord area, so this is not a small business. That means we have to take it seriously. Then it is unlikely that the government and the Council of State will understand the themes around it – that the industry in the area, port services and others, are ready to make and order boats in order to carry passengers from Stranda and Hellesylt to Geiranger and back. Zero emissions in World Heritage fjords are fully possible, and the industry is ready. One doesn't discuss the zero emission decision anymore – it's there, and then one has to act on it. But we're content to make sure that it's actually possible to run boats from Stranda and Hellesylt into the fjord on zero. Then there must be power at the other end. That's why we're stressing it with Hellesylt, and it's also about going to Hellesylt and using the big cruisekaia that's lying there. Private Kaia is not in the World Heritage Area, but it's a parcel that you have to pass through. There's a process against the government, and it's important that it gets caught up in. For example, if you can't use a pia on Hellesylt, if you're cut off from it, you'll get tourists to Geiranger by bus via Olden and Ålesund and other places. Then we get the wind smoke, and it doesn't get any cleaner in the area. It might get worse, and it doesn't get the environmental effect you want to achieve. Here a different thing has to be done, but getting power to Hellesylt from Sogn is the most important thing in the short term. Then one has to have enough power to charge ferries, smaller boats, car and bus and what had to be, in Geiranger. These are the things that are decisive. Then we'll have to catch up to it. We have a good suggestion now, which we're a little bit familiar with. I really hope that the government takes hold of it, because this is very important for an entire nation. Geiranger is a tourist icon over something.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2365	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2382	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2389	I must thank the Cooperation Committee. This is a matter to which reference is made, which is therefore an external quality assurance of the socio-economic consequences of wiring versus air voltage for a 420 kV transmission line between Hamang in Bærum and Smestad in Oslo. As the case now stands, Oslo and Bærum have objections to the air voltage. That objection has been rejected by the NVE. It is again indicted and is now at NVE for a new treatment. If the NVE maintains its decision and rejects the complaint, the complaint is lodged with the Minister of Oil and Energy. There is no disagreement that this area needs increased network capacity and that it needs to be strengthened. There is an increased need here, and there has also been a longer-term increase in the population. As a general rule, such lines are constructed with air voltage, also on grounds of a case from Stortinget from 2011 to 2012. Then the question is, when do you have to put power lines on the ground, so with cable, like this, and what should be the basis for such a decision? I can also mention that a separate public sample, a web sample, has been set up, where, among other things. these questions will be addressed. So I'll say a little bit about what's the left hand position here. The Left supports the Right’s proposal to ask the Government to ensure such external quality assurance in dealing with the complaint, which it will be when it comes to the Government. I think this is important to get in place, so that we ensure, in this densely populated area, that all parts of the socio-economic impact are looked at. I don't think it's in contrast to the responsibility of the Council of State, that we make such a decision in Stortinget. It doesn't get majority. I would then like to refer to the comment of a majority, which actually has the same content, namely that reference is made to the specific considerations which require the Ministry to obtain an external assessment as part of the appeal procedure. Finally, I would draw attention to that comment and link it to what becomes a majority decision, which also indicates that one must look at the situation in a holistic way. It is necessary to consider the majority comment together with the decision, and then with the expectation that such external quality assurance will actually be implemented. I'm dealing with the proposal that left is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2412	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2417	There is a great need to strengthen network capacity in Oslo and in Bærum. The air lines that we have today come from the 1950s, and there is a great need for upgrade. Everyone agrees here, both in this room and locally. What's at the heart of the battle is whether this is going to go through cables, or whether it's going to go into the air. The masts planned correspond to a twelve-storey building and will pass through some of the most populous areas in Norway. This has led to great protests from the communities – for good reason, I would say, because I think they have good arguments on their side. I am pleased that there is a unified local government in Bærum, with all parties, and that the City Council in Oslo has been clear on this matter and stood by the neighbours and say that they disagree with the decision that the NVE has made. Then it is that this matter has not yet been for political treatment, or has been up in the ministry. It was not under the responsibility of the previous government when the NVE took its decision. When I asked Tina Bru about this, she would not comment and said that she had nothing to do with this. Nor has it been put on this Council of State table. In fact, we don't even know if it's going to do that yet, because the matter is still with the NVE. So that's to advance what's going to happen, to say that we already know today how the progress in this case is going to be. However, I am pleased that we have discussed the matter, that we have to deal with it properly, and that we are shown that we have listened, listened to all the counter-conceptions that have come. And if the matter comes to the Minister's table, the Minister clearly states – and it is in line with the decision that is now to be taken – that all assessments and all counter-representations will of course be taken, and the socio-economic considerations will form the basis for the final decision. The size will also take a decision by a large majority today – or not today, but when we are going to vote at the next meeting – saying that this should apply in particular to the power line proposed between Hamang and Smestad. I think it is a good decision that the Stortinget should now make. So I know that the Right has put forward a proposal to have an external assessment of this. I think it's a little early to say exactly how the assessment should be done, before we know at all whether to make an assessment. We do not know whether this matter comes to the Minister's table. It may be that that assessment should then be made externally, but I think we will have to assess it if it comes. In addition, it sounds like it's just external, and you get the answers you want. Of course it's not like that. The Ministry may take more account of the socio-economic assessments than an external assessment will. I would like to conclude by saying that I think we are making a good decision. I would like to thank all those who have been active in the debate – the City Council, and not least the local community. We will follow the case further, and they will know that their votes have been heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2434	There is a great need to strengthen network capacity both in Oslo and in Bærum. We all agree on that. The question is how best to use the socio-economic approach and whether the government should already initiate a new quality assurance approach to the calculations of the socio-economic impact of cable versus air voltage on this route. The right considers that there are good reasons why the government could already, in this complaint procedure, tell the NVE to make a new socio-economic assessment. I am pleased that there are many parties – unfortunately not the majority – that support this need to be done. Following the NVE’s decision on a concession allowing Statnett to expand the link as an air line, against the objections of Oslo and Bærum, there has been very wide disagreement between different environments. There are others who point to the fact that low environmental and land values were taken into account in the socio-economic calculations of the NVE. Both Oslo and Bærum also describe in their letters of consultation that the planned power transmission will have a major impact on the local environment in the densely populated area of Norway. The planned masts are an average of 38 meters high, towards today's 21 meters high masts. A new pipeline could provide higher noise levels and link the area needed for other expansions. That's what happens from the hearings. I don't think anyone has been served with great disintegration and fundamental strife over the calculations that form the basis of such a major extension case in Norway's most populous territory. That is precisely why the Right believes that the government in this case should now initiate a new quality assurance of the calculations, where several of the objections raised are heard and listened to. For the Right, it has not been about whether it should be an external assessment or an external assessment. I would have been very happy if today the majority had agreed to a new analysis and a new assessment, including, if necessary, in-house in the department. Unfortunately, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV would not decide that this was something the government would do. But I'm glad, it's nevertheless a majority of the committee that is very clear in its comments. I quote: ‘The ministry should obtain an external assessment as part of the appeal procedure’.» [[...]] In other words, the majority indicate that this would have been wise to do. I believe and hope that the Minister of Oil and Energy will listen today and take him into the further process. Then there's a proposal that's been promoted today, which seems to be getting a majority. This proposal opens open doors in a way, for it only confirms current practice by saying that concession cases should have a broad socio-economic assessment. It is already in the law, but the Right is not against today's practice, so we can vote in a subsidiary way for it. But I probably wanted the majority in this room today to be more clear that we need a new analysis, which gives security to all the people in this area. This choice shall remain for another 50-100 years. We have time for a new analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2452	There is a great need to strengthen network capacity in large parts of the country, including in Oslo and Bærum. Upgrading the connection between Hamang and Smestad, which we are discussing in this matter, is a necessary upgrade of the mains power grid in an area of high population growth and increasing consumption. A flexible and efficient electricity network is essential for implementing the electrification of society in the coming years, bringing the power efficiently from the producer to the consumer and providing adequate security of supply for consumers and businesses. In this debate, it is important to point out that costs related to trasé selection and cost-effective technical solutions are paid by electricity customers across the country through the network, not only in areas affected by improvements. The power grid is a monopoly where all costs are borne by customers, and a central infrastructure is dependent on the population. However, with the large network investments required to meet the electrification of society and shifting green, efficient deployment and strict cost control are important. I think we all agree on that. All decisions to be taken in the management of Norwegian energy infrastructure must be based on thorough and comprehensive assessments. It is of course important that this is also done in this specific case. The parties argue that, in the context of any review of the appeal, the Council of State will consider all the essential aspects of the case and whether further investigations are necessary. That is precisely what the Ministry will do if a case is sent to the Department for a decision. In the extension of this I wonder that the Right only months after they left the government, this proposal promotes. They even had the Minister of Oil and Energy until the fall and should have been able to initiate more thorough investigations while they were running. I believe the Right has a relatively large credibility problem in this case, but I will leave it. In June 2021 a public network selection was set up. The sample shall assess measures to speed up the development and concessionalisation of new network facilities, principles for the socio-economic development of the mains power grid and improvements in the access point system. They shall submit their comments by 16 June 2022. Any discussion of the principles of network concession treatment should be conducted in this context and not through individual cases. In view of this, it is natural for the Centre Party to submit a proposal in which the Stortinget asks the Government to base an overall socio-economic assessment on concession cases. This assessment must take into account the development of land- scarce areas, the public use of land and the development of areas. We do not regard this as an over-control of the government's work, but rather as a clarification of the Storting's will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2467	It is interesting to read Statnett's comments on the nearly 380 complaints that have come to the NVE's decision to allow the establishment of sample masts through densely built struts and residential areas, both in Bærum and Oslo. Statnett has initially applied for two alternative solutions, and they stress in their comments, and also in their application, that cable is considered to be an equally good solution for a new 420 kV connection between Hamang in Bærum and Oslo as an air line. They have applied for the cable option because it can be socio-economically rational and therefore within the framework of the network message. There are leads from the authorities which are the reason that Statnett has applied for air pipeline as first priority, but it is noted that the cable option on the route will enable stakeholders to realise gains for wiring on all or part of this route. So there are almost 3,000 dwellings along the planned air voltage and 6,000 people living there, and never before has such high voltage masts of almost 40 meters and the corresponding voltage level been passed through residential areas. I would argue that it is both anti-human and old-fashioned, and that it will weaken the quality of life. It will prevent the development of important social institutions and recreational areas, both in Bærum and Oslo. As early as last autumn, the Progress Party in Stortinget proposed that the government should instruct Statnett to bury the new cable in order to renew the connection in question. There were no other parties supporting this proposal, and repeated questions to the Council of State have only been referred to the NVE. But this must be resolved politically. I registered that all parties locally in the election campaign, including today's government parties, marked out clear support for the cable option when it was relevant. But it was of course tactically smart to be on the part of the citizens and voters in the election campaign, perhaps also because the responsible state council was from the Right. The Progress Party believes that an external calculation of the socio-economic impact of the interconnection of power transmission between Bærum and Oslo needs to be made. We are disappointed with the government parties and the SV, who ensure that the proposal does not now have a majority in the Storting. But we can have a hope. We can hope that the Council of State and the Government will do as they have promised: listen to ordinary people in all parts of society – even if they live in Oslo west and Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2478	I could have chosen to dwell on this fact and asked: where were the people who are now fighting for the cable, when we discussed some of the really big interventions in Norwegian nature related to power line production in the West a few years ago? But I'll leave it. It is a fact that, on a case-by-case basis, we see, in terms of energy development, that questions are rightly asked in the investigations that are being carried out. The quality of the investigations carried out and the quality of the studies related to the environment for human consumption are rightly questioned. This is something that helps create distrust of the whole system that we have, and that we need to make sure is the best possible way to make the right decisions. Therefore, SV has proposed in this case, and gets a majority for it, that there should be holistic, socio-economic analyses of these developments, also in the matter we are discussing here. We have also submitted a comment that I want to draw attention to, and which has also received a majority, where we say that in this case too, it may be right, or that is right, to ask outsiders for advice before actually making decisions. I hope that the government councils and government parties will remember that remark. Empty value has been drawn out as an important argument that we're going to have wired right here. For SV, the value of the plot is not necessarily what is essential for it to be wired or not, it is the consideration of nature and the consideration of people's growing environment that must be the leading. If the plot value were what was decided, we would simply have cabled in Oslo west and large monster masts in Oslo east. Then there's been a question about why you can't immediately dig down. No, it has a cost of one billion, and I want to challenge the two parties that think it's going to be dug right away, to tell people how this is now to be financed, with the sky-high power prices. How will the Red and Advance Party finance and ask people to pay one billion extra?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2489	It is tempting to ask the representative Haltbrecken whether he has noticed the increased tax revenue received by the State in the form of rent taxes, and the increased return to Statkraft, if the representative is concerned that there are no financial muscles to build cables. ‘The unpriced effects draw in the direction of cable. We cannot exclude that the added value of cables exceeds the additional cost." These are Statnett's own words in the concession application. They are very uncertain about their own socio-economic assessments, and then it makes sense for others to review the socio-economic assessments with a fresh look. This is Red's reason why we support the proposal on external quality assurance. So simple is actually this matter, although it has been tried to produce more complicated by several. Now we have to do what we can to ensure that the review process is handled as best as possible, and this proposal will improve the handling of complaints. But this matter is also about something more. In Ullernåsen residential Samenie in Oslo, the high-spent cable literally passes between the large terrace blocks. It goes over green areas where the kids play, and it goes right past the balconies and the bedroom windows to people. So there's too many others on the 12 km distance. 6000 to 7000 persons are directly affected by the proposed high-spent pathway. It will go through some of the most densely populated areas of the country. Therefore, Red has taken a decision to dig down the cable. It's also about all the ratings Statnet doesn't make. Finally, it is a political question of whether or not our most powerful high-voltage lines should be traversed through densely built strips. This case is not about the plots of the distance, as someone thinks. It's about the lack of plots. When we build from a 50-year perspective, we have to plan for a 50-year perspective, and if there is one thing we know, there will be no more vacant areas in this area in the future. Here we can free an enormous area of joy for society. Two large schools are given the opportunity to expand. We can build kindergartens, playgrounds, football courts and play areas. Berum hospitals are given the opportunity to grow in the future, and we can build homes. 40 meters of width in 12 kilometers is going to add up to a total of square meters. I thank you for now and draw me again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2508	It is likely long since the power policy has been on as many lips as this winter. The extraordinary situation at high power prices has caused many to reflect on how our power system is built, how we are going to make sure that we have enough power in the future, and that everyone has access to power at an acceptable price, whether they're operating with a powerful industry or they're going to heat up their range house. The government is already increasing our power generation. We have a power support system in place to ensure that the state takes the tops of the electricity bill for households when the price is exceptionally high. But building up enough power is not in itself enough if we are to meet the needs of the future. We also have to have a power grid that leads to the power to which it is to be consumed. But it's engaging. The construction of a new power transmission link between Hamang and Smestad is dealt with under the Energy Act. The Energy Act shall ensure that the development of new network facilities is carried out in a socially rational manner and that public and private interests affected are taken into account. Concession treatment focuses on socio-economic profitability, but also needs to take into account how the costs and benefits of the action are distributed among the various interests involved. In the development of the network, the Community takes on most of the investment and operational costs. Soil or sea cable normally has significantly higher costs than the overhead line, especially at higher voltage levels. When examining the network message in 2012, Stortinget agreed on the principles for assessing when the ground or sea cable can be considered as an alternative to the air line. For example, cables may be: considered if, over a limited distance, there is a significantly better total solution than the overhead line, taking into account all considerations. The principles of the online notification form the basis of the concession treatment, and any changes to it must be made by general political signals, not as part of the handling of individual cases. NVE's decision to grant Statnett concession to a new 420 kV power line in air voltage between Hamang in Bærum and Smestad in Oslo is indicted. In line with the rules of the Administrative Act, the case is now for preliminary review by the NVE, before the case is sent to the Ministry of Oil and Energy for final decision. The NVE is now making independent assessments of the complaints that have come. The NVE may initiate investigations and make changes to the directorate in the opinion of the complainants. I will not prejudge the NVE's initial complaint procedure, but I can assure you that the department will assess all relevant aspects of the case when the case is sent to the department for final decision. Finally, I would like to stress that it is an important administrative principle that the paragraph which has taken a decision should also be able to deal with and possibly transform its own decision into a review procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2532	The Council of State is absolutely right that this engages. The Council of State says that she will first decide on further investigations when and if the matter ends up on her table. Initially, I sympathise with the way in which I deal with the complaint procedure, but in this case there are several specific considerations. One is about the disagreement about the calculations, but it may be especially related to the fact that it is such a densely constructed stroke, and that there is a disagreement about whether it is done in the ways that the NVE calculates today. Today, it is a majority in the Committee that is clear that the government should introduce a new external quality assurance, and that is a very clear signal. So my question to the Council of State is simply: is it a signal she takes, and will she possibly reconsider not asking for a new assessment now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2539	There are many good arguments in this case, including: I think it is important that all aspects of the case be properly assessed, and also in view of the facts of the case. But as the Council of State, I really want to stick to the administrative principle that the one dealing with the complaint, or having taken the decision, should also have the opportunity to do so. And the NVE has every opportunity to ask for new investigations and other investigations, or to reverse its decision without those investigations, if you like. Then they will have to do so, and when the complaint comes to the oil and energy department's table, we will decide what might remain. I don't want to prejudge it, because things can happen in the complaint process, which is now on the NVE's table.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2544	The problem now is that it feels like there are a little different signals coming up, because the representative Åsmund Aukrust said – both in Budstikka and here – that now the protests from people have been heard, and it will ensure that ‘the concerns that have not been taken care of are now guaranteed by the government’. Then he refers to what's the signal from the committee. But as I understand the Council of State now, she does not experience today that there is a change in reality. Or does the Council of State think that the signal that comes – both with the majority of the opinion that the government should implement a new, external quality assurance, and that many problematic aspects of the assessments that have been made – does not mean that she can now anticipate and say that if she gets the case on her table and no further investigations have been made, will she do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2551	This will be a very hypothetical debate – that ‘if the Council of State gets it on its table’, and ‘if the NVE has not carried out further investigations’. I believe that the matter is best if I consider the facts when they may be on my table. There may be a need for new investigations related to the socio-economic interests, but there may also be a need for other types of investigations, and I am then free, as Minister of Oil and Energy, to decide what investigations we need. As a complaint handler, one also has the opportunity to consider the facts of the case, the principles that lie here, and in the online notification Stortinget has given quite clear signals about how this should be perceived, and this case can also be seen in the light of the principles that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2556	Statnett has applied for two alternative solutions in order of priority, but they have applied for what can be called a cable solution, because they believe it is socio-economically rational, and that it will be within the framework of the online message, i.e. the Storting decision back to 2012. Do the State Councils agree with Statnett's assessments of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2561	The NVE has granted a concession to the new air line option and the new air line shall replace the current air line to be demolished before the new one is built. That is the reality of the matter, and then the case is appealed by several interests who believe that this tension should instead go to ground, such as, among other things. The representative Limi pointed out in his post instead, because you can then free another area. I am not comfortable standing here for a complaint procedure that is now on the NVE's table, until it may come to me in the Ministry of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2566	Until recently, I understand that a complaint procedure should not be avoided, but at the same time, my question as to whether the Council of State agrees with the assessments made by Statnet in its concessional application, precisely that a cable solution would also be within the framework of what has been drawn up in the online message. It is a little important to clarify, because at the end of the day this can be a political decision, a political decision, and it is quite natural that it will be. Here, there is a great need for society to take care of. But leave it alone, for I would also like to ask this question to the Council of State: When can we, given a normal appeal procedure, expect a political decision in the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2571	Assessing the socio-economic assessment of local effects by Statnet is also a discretionary assessment. That's why it's part of a complaint procedure, and that's why I'm saying I don't want to put it out of Storting's pulpit until it gets to my table. As far as the time perspective is concerned, the complaint is pending at NVE, and once it has been concluded there, it will come to the Ministry of Oil and Energy for a final decision. So it depends on what socio-economic investigations or other perspectives you want to have in such a complaint handling, how long it will take to deal with such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2578	Energy laws regulate network deployment and power deployment, and the objective paragraph is very clear: it has to be socio-economically rational, and one has to preserve interests that will happen. The Hardanger Line, which was a major battle theme a few years ago, is an example, and there are many such issues ahead because we need to strengthen the central network. Is there really going to be socio-economic distributions, or is there someone who is feeling it completely free, almost out of his free discretion?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2586	Yes, socio-economic assessments have been carried out in all cases. In this case, too, Statnet has carried out a socio-economic assessment of local effects on, among others. property prices and recreational opportunities, but the complainants believe that these effects are underestimated and that an external quality assurance must be carried out. I cannot assess these complaints – whether they are correct and such things, including whether there is a need for external quality assurance or new investigations – until that case has been sent from the NVE to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. But yes, there are socio-economic assessments of this in all cases. Then the question is whether there are always socio-economic assessments that will be crucial, or whether there are other considerations to be taken into account. There is also room for a discretionary assessment of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2591	I fully agree with the latter. Other considerations may also be taken into account in the discretionary assessment. It should also have been done in Hardanger in its time. This is a matter that affects a lot of people, and that is big and important in the area. I have great respect for the fact that the Council of State cannot forge that she might be able to receive a complaint handling, and that it must then make a comprehensive assessment. My question will then be: If the Council of State receives this matter on its table and is required to make its full assessment, will it also include in the assessment that there is a majority comment in the case that just indicates that an external quality assurance should be carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2600	These are also many hypothetical ‘if’ issues, but if that is what the representative here describes, I will of course include all the relevant elements in this, including a majority comment from the Storing, which in itself does not say much more than what is already done in these cases, and of course also the views of the minority. Not least, the views of the complainants will also be reflected in such a review procedure. This is precisely what a complaint handling is all about – it is also important to consider the aspects that come in as new elements in the complaint procedure. So the answer -- if this happens, in a hypothetical problem situation -- is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2605	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2612	For the Central Party, it is essential that we make it possible for people to live, work and live a good life in all of Norway, in the countryside and in the city. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to build up and upgrade so that we get good and modern infrastructure. This applies either to road projects or to runways, or – as in this case – to the development of a good and modern electricity network. In such contexts, it is important that good overall societal assessments are made and that good processes are provided for those affected. For the centre party, it has been incredibly important, even in this case, to listen to those affected, to have meetings with them and to have dialogue, which both the centre party on the Stortinget, the centre party locally and myself included have had in a number of rounds. What is interesting to hear from the proposers, who have raised an important representative proposal, is that the anxiety that people feel locally, they have felt over time. The Facebook group entitled ‘No to Sample Masters in Congested Strokes!’ was established in September 2020. The decision of the NVE with a refusal of objection by the municipality of Bærum and the municipality of Oslo was taken on 30 August, under the previous government. It was under the responsibility of the previous government to lay the framework for a good process, where good, social assessments were made, and where one could create confidence in those who were affected. It is precisely the process that has not been good enough and that leads to a number of complaints about the decision taken by the NVE. And it's a little interesting that the representative proposal we're dealing with today is signed by three state councils in the government that was involved and left the basis and framework for the process leading up to the decision that NVE made. They had barely come out of the government offices before they submitted a proposal in Stortinget that one had to provide a better investigation of this issue. But for the government that is now sitting, it is important – and this is something that the Council of State is also clear – that all the input and complaints that are coming are to be properly addressed and evaluated, and that one should have good, holistic social assessments in this case. Such a person shall ensure that the persons concerned in the case, who live in Oslo and Bærum, are heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2623	The electricity consumption in Oslo and Bærum is increasing, and the capacity of the mains is poor. In order to ensure that the inhabitants have a secure power supply in the future, the current air line from 1952 needs to be replaced with a new connection with a higher capacity. Statnett received in 2021 — while the government of Solberg was in power, as the previous speaker pointed out — the concession to build the new connection as an air tension. The concession refers to power lines in air voltage between masts as high as 12-story construction and through residential lines in Bærum and Oslo. The air voltage will also link important areas for public purposes such as hospitals, schools and industrial applications. The protests against the concession have been and are massive. The municipalities of Bærum and Oslo have also availed themselves of their right of objection. The Solberg government, the right government, could have stopped the air voltage concession, but chose to follow the procedure in such cases. What has happened to the Right since they resigned from the government? The same protests were there. The same counter-arguments were there. Why did the Right have to wait until 15 minutes after they left the government offices, promoting this proposal for a representative? With all due respect to report, the Right has no credibility in this matter, all the time they could have done anything about it when they themselves put in power. The NVE is now dealing with the complaints and objections, and if the NVE does not find any basis for amending the concession decision, the appeal will be sent to the Ministry of Oil and Energy for final decision. The Minister for Oil and Energy, in his letter to the Committee and today from the Chair, stressed that if the matter is sent to the Department for decision, all essential aspects of the matter should be considered, including the need for further investigations. The inhabitants of the affected areas of Bærum and Oslo should be sure that we take their case very seriously. They should also be sure that we will base further investigations if the matter ends up at the oil and energy minister's table. There is at least much more to it than the Right handed when they sat with the power.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2634	As previous speakers – and as mentioned in the setting – I will also underline the need both to strengthen the network capacity in this area and to ensure that the future power grids carry a significant electrification of our entire society in the years to come. This matter is a little complex, both in terms of what has been mentioned in relation to the price tag for the cost-effective solution – which we all have to be involved in paying through the network lease – and in terms of area conflicts related to the trajectory of this cable, and not least the extent of the population affected. The matter has, as I understand it, been dealt with in the NVE for two years. The possibility of taking a political initiative to resolve the matter at an earlier stage has had this whole time – and so it was – but it was not until the moment a new government was in place that they got speedy and promoted this proposal for a representative that is now under consideration. The fact that the socio-economic analysis proposed by the Right now, at an earlier stage, could be requested is quite obvious. But more people have been involved, so I'm not going to dwell on the story. This is a matter that means a lot too many, in both Bærum and Oslo, and a lot of people have engaged. The planned powerline is experienced as a major intervention among those living on the Hamang–Smestad line, and it is among others. a fully understandable and great concern about radiation values that people now get right outside the living room door with this line stroke. I would therefore like to commend the people who have made direct contact with the politicians in the matter and have made good and valuable contributions. In this respect, it is unfortunate that questions are asked about whether it has been properly informed, whether the necessary adequate socio-economic analyses have been carried out, and whether all relevant alternatives have been properly evaluated. The proposal for a decision, for which there is a majority, which embraces both the general and the specific aspects of the matter, is therefore very positive. The size calls on the Council of State to take into account an overall socio-economic assessment to take account of the development of land- scarce areas, and that this must also apply to this section. It is important for this specific case, but it can also help to raise the debate on how to assess in the future other similar concession cases elsewhere in the country that can generate similar debate and commitment. In this matter, an overall committee has supported the view that the use of earth cables should be considered if the use of air cables causes major disadvantages in densely built strips, and that is very good. Like others, I believe that the Council of State is now, as it is fundamentally signaled very clearly, making a concrete assessment of the need for further investigations as an essential part of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2647	If the construction of a 12 km long high-spent wire with a 36-metre-high weather mast is assumed, it should at least be done on a good professional basis. And here we are at the essence of this matter. The professional basis is not good enough, and it also says Statnett itself. Statnet writes in its concession request that it is difficult to quantify the environmental handicaps and the value of the decommissioned areas by adding these cables to the ground. In a project like this, the benefits and disadvantages of the different options must be thoroughly highlighted. And when the NVE, despite Statnett's confessions that this is difficult, chooses to grant a plant concession, and there are protests from the municipalities that are affected by this, one should go into the matter more closely. One interesting question is why the government parties have so much difficulty in supporting and assisting Statkraft and NVE with the competence that they obviously believe they may not even have to be able to answer this question properly. Cableing in the ground will release large areas in Norway’s densely populated area, or at least one of the densely populated areas. By adding these cables to the ground, large areas will be freed and environmental constraints will be reduced for approx. 6000 people – clearly. Therefore, this is so disappointing by the government parties, and in particular the Workers' Party, which went so high in the election campaign in this case locally. The representative Aukrast, who was also in the hall instead, went out high on the track in the local press and demanded that the cables should be in the ground now. And when you have come to the government and sit on the entire decision-making authority, you take a much more reserved position in this. You can say that the inhabitants have been heard. No, they're not, because the comment the Workers' Party referred to as the great welcome to the people is just a confirmation of today's practice, that is, the socio-economic analyses have been made. There's nothing new about it. But then it is to hope and believe that at least the request decision that the government should consider bringing in external competence in this area is followed up, and then there is no one closer to push on and perhaps get on the Council of State, than that representative August from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2660	There were some lines drawn to the Hardanger power lines, which the red-green government in its time decided to expand. I was in Hardanger and demonstrated against those lines that time, and the then leader in Red, Turid Thomassen, was even arrested. So there's no doubt that Red didn't want to expand the monster masts in Hardanger. But it was a completely different type of conflict than what we are discussing now, then the conflict was a conflict of nature protection. What we're talking about here is actually freeing up the area. It's not right, as I also stressed in the previous post, that this is about land prices – it's about freeing the land. For example, the City Council of Oslo – both the SV and the government parties – has that you want to expand a third housing sector. We think that's a good idea in Red. If these cables are placed on the ground, land is released that can be used to expand a third housing sector. The alternative is to obtain land by other means. It also costs money – as there is a lot of debate about costs in the Chamber today. I want to repeat the quote from Statnett's concession request: ‘The unpriced effects draw in the direction of cable. We cannot exclude that the added value of cables exceeds the additional cost." You can take note of that. Then Red also supports the majority proposal, i.e. the recommendation, but it is a detour. We can decide – not just suggest, ask for or encourage – that we want the best possible handling of complaints. It implies an external assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2676	When I heard the Central Party's Sigbjørn Gülsvik on the speaker's chair, it seemed that he too, like many others in the centre party, wanted to return to the opposition, because the post did not have the mark of talking about the matter, it was not a matter of answering why we do not vote for the proposal for an external quality assurance – nor what he or the centre party wants to do further, and what they want to fight for. The installation is only about the right. The representative, Hussaini, did exactly the same thing; the article was in a way marked by a desire to disclaim responsibility for the decision you are making today, and is due only to the previous government. To be absolutely honest, I would have known if it was the case that NVE had given the concession many months before the government change, but they made a decision on 30 August, two weeks before the collapse election, and several weeks after the collapse session was over. It was very soon after the Stortinget was reassembled that we were some representatives from Akershus, from Viken, who joined forces and sent in this representative proposal. We have been trying for several weeks now to get a majority in favour of the proposal for a new external quality assurance, because we think it would have been wise to trust in the further process. I'm glad that very many parties here, across quite clear political dividing lines, thought it had been a wise assessment. I am also pleased that we have a majority in the comments, which the Labour Party and the Centre do not agree with, which emphasises that the government should carry out external quality assurance. On behalf of all those who are sitting and listening, who are concerned about the reality of this matter and that thorough assessments are being made, I do not think we are served by the way in which we try to waive responsibility. I think we deserve to move forward, and that in the further process – the government not least – we take the signals coming from the majority here today, and carry out a broader socio-economic assessment, in which several of the parameters that many have objected to are better addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2685	I would like to thank you for a good debate. There is no doubt that there is a great commitment to this matter. We've all met the action group and listened to their arguments, and there's no doubt that they have very good arguments. That is also why I am very happy that the Workers' Party, together with the Senterpartiet and SV, gives assurances that the matter will be decided in a proper way. I drew myself when I heard the representative of Elvenes' tyrant against the Workers' Party and the government. I think a lot of people see how low credibility right has in this case. I think you can see that they could have done something about this earlier, when they sat with the oil and energy minister and could have set the limits for the concession. This matter was, as the previous speaker said, the current short time before the election and right after the election, so it was fully possible to do so. They put forward an entire state budget just before they left, so that this particular matter was so difficult to deal with, has little credibility. I must also say that it is disappointing to see how little princely right is in this matter. On the basis of the proposal, only an external investigation is requested for the said route in Bærum and Oslo west. But we know that we have to expand more networks more places, and then there'll probably be more stuff for Stortinget. It is a pity, then, that the Right does not want to participate and ensure that other concession cases are also based on an overall socio-economic assessment, as proposed by the majority – an assessment that takes into account the development of land- scarce areas, the public exploitation of the land and the development of the area, as proposed by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. I hope that those who listen hear how the Right has turned 180 degrees from when they put in government, to now being indignant on behalf of the same voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2695	Let me first point out that Hans Andreas Limi drew attention to the fact that we in the Progress Party already last autumn, in the context of the budgetary procedure, proposed that there should be an earth cable and not a monster mast. Of course, we still believe that. Therefore, it is clear that this matter is neither decided by the NVE nor by the Minister of Oil and Energy. It comes to treatment in Stortinget anyway, of course, unless the oil and energy minister or the NVE comes to the conclusion that they will dig down this cable. Then it is not necessary to do anything more, but if it does not, the Storting will eventually decide this matter. So at least you know that. When we come to the conclusion that we want to have a cabling in the world, it is, after an overall assessment – which is the now popular justification of the finance minister in the central bank case – that we have focused on all the different information. We know that it's more expensive with cable in soil than with monster masts, but it'll have enormous impact on very many thousands of people, and there's probably not so much difference in the amount of work. You will have the same demand for labour, and there is no lack of money in the state fund that is why you can't do it. There are several representatives who talk about what previous governments have done, and what parties have done in previous majorization periods. Then I want to make it clear that we have had a big choice. That's what the current clusters of population think, as counting, not what groups of population in previous periods from the same batches have meant. Because in fact, within the party groups, at least that's the case in the Progress Party, sometimes, quite often, voting, and then maybe it's a crazy majority in a decision in a big group, which everybody respects. But then it's a big choice, and then it's a new group. At that time, the attitude may have changed, so that what was a large minority of the previous population is now a majority of the current. The fact that party groups change their positions on matters after having a choice must be respected, and in view of what they do in government, does not, at least, encroach on what happened in previous governments. I would like to say to the representatives of the Central Party, but also to the Workers' Party, that you have to learn that you sometimes suffer government defeat, and when you do not have government responsibility, you can take the position you may have had all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2706	If the commitment to this matter to find a good solution for the many people affected by it is so sincere on the part of the Workers' Party, as one should hope and believe that it is, why is it so difficult to accept a proposal asking for external consideration of the overall consequences of wiring versus high voltage? This is not a decision instructing the government to put the cables on the ground. It's not that, but the underlying agencies are obviously struggling with their own competence, and I also have some respect for that, because it's quite difficult – it's new work – to be able to go into the benefits-cost assessments related to such a large expansion in this area. What, then, is the problem of going in to attract support with external competence in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2711	The representative Mani Hussaini has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2716	What is the problem of supporting the existing proposal? The problem is that there is little principle, because this is probably not the only matter we're going to deal with that is network construction, and whether it's going to be in cable or in air voltage. So it's about being principled. It might be our most important job in this room. So that's the answer to the representative of the Rivers. I actually took the floor to thank Carl I. Hagen for good training in how to go down, when you switch down groups, etc., but we react very strongly to the fact that there are three former government councils, who only a few weeks earlier had been in government, who are involved in this proposal. So it seems a little bit hollow, if it's allowed to say it from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2723	The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2728	I have to say that I think it's a little sad and surprising that the Labour Party continues in this track, even when we're now trying to talk about how we can find a good solution, as there are a lot of parties in this room, across different political dividing lines, that have tried. They have also formed a majority on it in the notes. I would also like to comment quickly that I fully agree that a principle approach should be adopted. Making a broad socio-economic assessment in all concession cases is the legal text of the day; it is current practice. On the right, there may well be subsidized support for the proposal that is now on the table, but we have been concerned that there are some particular considerations in this matter, which were also discussed by the representative of the Rivers, namely that it is a very densely populated area, it is very poor area, and the way to calculate the socio-economic impact now raises questions. Then it would have been wise, I think, to have a new analysis and a new assessment. I also think it would have been wise for the Workers' Party to explain why they do not, rather than blame everyone else in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2735	Mani Hussaini referred to what he called training. If he thought it was an attempt at training or if it was real training, I don't know, but he gets to assess it for himself. But then I can continue with another lesson. I've never been and never will be a member of any government, but I've been a party leader for 28 years, and it actually happened sometimes – perhaps not so often – that I suffered defeat in internal voting in the party. But it did not prevent me from working actively in order for the position taken by the majority to be implemented. It was something I worked to accomplish, even though I belonged to the minority. Of course, so are state councils. A Council of State may come to one conclusion in its ministry, but suffer defeat in the College of Government or because the Prime Minister gives an instruction to think otherwise. Nevertheless, the Council of State in public space and in the Grand Duchy must argue for a position which that Council of State really does not stand for, because it is a college, and because that is how the democratic system works. So assigning former state councils some kind of personal responsibility, that all they've said, is what they've really meant, is wrong. It is not unknown that some of the oil and energy ministers who came from the Progress Party were constantly involved in some things.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2742	As a first-time meeting in this Chamber, I would like to thank you for the training. At the same time, I notice that both this case and the previous case are due to the fact that you have not implemented what you want today. If the former government had been more offensive and took care of the problems when they existed, we might not have had these matters up for discussion today. So I think it makes sense that in all major cases you have a principle approach to them and treat them properly. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-10.ana.ud374e2747	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The little story lesson finally ends. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
