ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e28	An application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Grunde Almeland is submitted from 30 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the commodity, Sofie Højestøl, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e48	Sofie Højestøl is present and will take the seat. The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e55	On behalf of Birgit Oline Kjerstad, Ingrid Fisaa, Kirsti Bergstø, Freddy André Øvstegård, Kathy Lie and myself, I would like to make a proposal on energy policy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e60	The representative of Mr Birgit Oline Kjerstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e65	On behalf of representatives Lars Haltbrecken, Andreas Shelg Unneland and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on an environmental complaint.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e70	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e75	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Morten Stordalen, Silje Hämdal, Sigbjørn Framnes, Terje Hansen, May Helen Hetland Ervik, Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself on powerful cuts in ferry and boat prices. And I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Morten Stordalen, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Hans Andreas Limi, Tor André Johnsen, Marius Arion Nilsen and myself on a package of measures for the transport industry and construction industry. This will be done in accordance with Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e82	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e98	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Bjørn Arild Gram, Jan Christian Vestre and Emilie Mehl for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Linda Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e107	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. «This is a wake up call», «It's urgent to get started», «Now we're going out of the seminar rooms», «It's working high-level», «Now there's action», «This we can solve if we want». It has not been lacking in large words from the Minister of Industry, but when the government presented the great investment in sea wind, it turned out to be a delayed and halved version of what the previous government had announced. My question to the Council of State is: Where did it go wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e119	What may have gone wrong in the sea wind bet is that on the Right watch two floating sea wind turbines were built, and at that rate it takes a few hundred years before we're up and running. What the government is doing now is we're setting the pace. We've decided that Utsira Nord should be awarded after a qualification contest. We've given a mission to search all along our coast to find out where we can develop more liquid sea winds. We are improving the support mechanisms for floating sea winds. We've decided how to treat Southern North Sea II as a concession. We're working on bombs in the Oil and Energy Department to see if you can also run parallel processes to take time. While the Solberg government made it possible for offshore wind power to start in 2030/2031, Prime Minister Støre has been very clear that we should be doing well before this decade is over – and it is urgent. We need more green electrons. We can build a unique industry, with the world's best offshore engineers and the world's best offshore professionals. We have world-class competence from 50 years with the oil and gas industry. Now it's urgent to get started, and that's what we're doing. Since the representative also asked questions about what else we are doing, I can say that we are also working on a wide range of other business and conversion policy projects. We launched two weeks ago our export reform, Whole Norway exports, which has been very well received by the business community. There is also sea wind one of the first strategic national initiatives. We're simplifying the tool and we've already launched one door-in solution, which will make it easier for companies to find out what they're doing. In the state budget we had three weeks to adjust this fall, we put together a package that this year will mobilise 3 billion. kr more in green investments. It's necessary, because there's a big lag in the green transition. We are also working on a wide range of other projects that I hope there will be plenty of opportunity to come back to during this Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e134	There's still a lot of nice words. The reality is that what the government has presented, in particular related to the Southern North Sea II, is a halving of what the government Solberg presented. So the realities speak for themselves. Development of sea wind thought the Minister of Industry was a prerequisite for success in the reindustrialisation of Norway. The right also believes that there can be many jobs. The actors are ready to start, the Minister of Industry has said. But the builders believe that the expansion of sea wind is unprofitable as long as the market is not put into service and hybrid cables are not built. The centre party has won so far in government. The market shall not be put into service. The finance minister said on Monday that there will be one radial directly to land and we won't have any new cables as long as we run. Why is it more important for the Minister of Industry to satisfy the protectionist attitudes of the Centre Party rather than to allow Norwegian companies and Norwegian industry to enter the markets and create new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e141	There's no ambition halving. We're going faster with the first 1500 MW on the South North Sea. There we've said that we're taking the electrons ashore. That's the very good reason for it. When I travel around and meet Norwegian industry all over the country, they have one main concern, and that is that in the future there will not be enough access to clean and reasonable renewable energy. What has been preferred to Norway since Kristian Birkeland and Sam Eyde formed Norsk Hydro in 1905 is now in the process of becoming confused because it has not been expanding enough renewable energy in recent years, including the Solberg government's watch. That's why we need the green electrons to land first. We've said that in terms of the remaining 1500 MW in the South North Sea, we're going to come back to how that system is to be built up. It could be a combination of taking the power to land. It could also be to see this as part of a larger North Sea network. [[the fire alarm goes to the staging room]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e152	Then we have to pause, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e166	Then we're ready to start the oral questioning again. There will be follow-up questions – first Linda Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e173	After all, there was a violent outburst to avoid responding to the protectionist policy of the Centre Party – whether that is what hinders the construction of sea windows. I want to repeat my question, because I didn't get any answer to it, so I encourage the Minister of Industry to answer it. The builders of sea winds say it is unprofitable as long as they are not allowed to use the market, by building hybrid cables. Why is it more important for the government to meet the demands of the Centre Party and the protectionist attitude they have, rather than allowing Norwegian companies and Norwegian industry to take up the market and create new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e181	I can reassure the representative by stressing that there is great enthusiasm for sea wind both in the Central Party and in the Workers' Party, and that is why we are now in the process, faster and faster to the goal. What we've just started is just the start of a big bet. So with all the new technologies, including renewable technologies, it's expensive at first. So it was with the sun, so it was with the land-based wind, so it's with the bottomless sea wind, and it's even more expensive with the floating sea wind. But when we get started, when we get out, and when we get up the capacity, the turbines get better and the prices go down. So someone has to be on a split layer in the first place anyway, to get this profitable. Then the government has been more concerned that we should get started, that we should ensure that we do not get even higher power prices in Norway, and that we should get more knowledge about how the foreign grid affects the Norwegian power market. We need all the power we can get for green industry travel at home, and then we get back to the possible support mechanisms that need to be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e190	Linda Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e195	But the problem is that the government won't get started. If you wanted to, you could light up areas now. The Minister of Industry has a terrible lack of time, and it is a little strange that there has not been a single report or a single bill here, that not a single strategy has been put forward, nor any clarifications that industry is calling for, for example. the nature of the contract of differences. The export effort, which is so important to the industry, ended up in a so-called export reform, where the only thing that has been presented is a press release – in addition to the move of the Export Strategy Council from Ålesund to Oslo, with the blessing of the Centre Party, which is then subject to the Department. What concrete – in concrete terms – is what the Minister of Industry has done to bring about the so-called reindustrialisation, which is so urgent?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e204	I've been glad to answer that. The exchange of replicas started with liquid sea winds, and now we're moving on to exports, and I'd like to answer that. We presented our export reform, All of Norway exports, which has been very well received, both by industry and by the social partners. There we launched seven entirely new measures to strengthen Norwegian exports. I'm going to be careful to run too much polemics today, but in Hofstad's government's export strategy it said that it was not an end in itself to increase Norwegian exports. That was probably also why the Solberg government left behind the biggest trade deficit of the time for the mainland, 300 billion. kr. We're now in the process of straightening up. We have a goal of increasing exports by 50 pst. by 2030. We are in the process of seawinding, we are in the process of greening maritime exports, we have in place systems for export companies to receive support for up to 50 pst. of their export efforts out and we have extended the mandate of Exsfin so that they can now provide loans, finance and guarantees for industrial investment at home to promote export and climate-friendly conversion. And this is just the beginning of a large-scale export effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e213	Sofie Marhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e218	My question is about the industry of the future, because today it was known that Aker and Statkraft are withdrawing from the plans to rebuild Yara's ammonia factory in Her Island, so that they will use clean power instead of natural gas. The analysts believe this is due to the high electricity prices – or commercial considerations, as stated in the press release. The already existing power-processing industry will in the future be struggling with high electricity prices when renegotiated fixed-price contracts, while attempts at new start-ups are already having difficulties, as the example of the island illustrates. The electricity prices stick cones in the wheels for both old and new climate-friendly industries. The alternative to cheap power is cheap labour, and its consequences mean deflagration, closure and scrapping. How will the Council of State ensure democratic control of power and reasonable electricity prices as soon as possible in order to save the green industry at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e225	Thank you for the question, which is the strict responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy. I would like to give some general reflections anyway. The project Here Island I know very well. I've been there myself. It's an amazingly exciting climate project, with electrification. We need 450 MW, and then Yara on Her Island can cut 800,000 tonnes of CO 2, and of the tons we're going to cut forward, this is going to be a very central contribution. As far as I'm aware, Yara hasn't changed its ambition in this. They have ambitious plans for electrification, and we support it below. As the representative says, as electricity prices rise, there is a challenge for Norwegian business. The fact that we have clean, cheap electrons has been a advantage that we're going to make sure remains a advantage. That is why many projects are now being worked in parallel. The Energy Commission is in progress. We are once again developing new renewable energy, and we are speeding up in the North Sea as far as liquid sea winds are concerned. The most important thing we can do is to increase power generation. It will reduce prices, and it will also ensure that we can create new industrialisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e237	Sofie Marhaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e242	It is good that the government council knows about this project. But then you also know that the prices are probably too high for this project to be realised. There's a lot of talk about that we need to get more energy, but we actually have a surplus of power today. So this might look different in the future, but the problem today is not that we have too little power. The problem today is that the electricity prices are too high. That's what makes this project, this very concrete project, not realized. Therefore, I wonder how the Minister of Industry will work in order not only to scrape future climate-friendly industrial projects because of sky-high power prices, but actually secure future-oriented jobs. In the current competition, only the petroleum industry will survive the sky-high electricity prices, if this continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e247	As I said, we have to get up the production of new renewable energy, and it's sad that the Red Party will not be involved. The game Red is against building out wind on land and is basically against building out wind at sea, and then there won't be much electricity left. Then I can also stress that we now have a power surplus of approx. 13–15 terrawatt hours, but all the plans for new industrialisation that are now around Norway will quickly be eaten up. There are few things that make me more ‘happy’ than traveling around and meeting the industry and companies that have large-scale plans. Battery plants shall be built and hydrogen production shall be built. We're going to make the world's greenest process industry even greener. We're going to make low-carbon solutions the world's never seen before. We need to invest in the forest and wood processing industries and in the bioeconomy. All of this will require electricity, so we are totally dependent on seeing a shift in new renewable energy production, primarily to meet the needs of the Norwegian industry. So no one in the government has said that we basically rule out that we can also participate in the electrification in Europe later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e256	Terje Halleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e262	I thought we would stay at Südlige Nordsjö II, where the government has decided that the cables from the plant will only go to Norway. We have a very high price of electricity and power in Norway today, but I expect the Council of State to agree with me that we should have a goal that the prices in the long term should fall to the level we were at before this crisis we have today was realized. Then we know that sea wind is a product that is more expensive to produce today than what we're used to at the cost of electricity in Norway. When the government then decides that the cables should only go to Norway and a market that has a lower price than the production price on the southern North Sea, what does the government calculate that the extra cost will be?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e269	That question should almost be addressed to the appropriate Council of States, which will respond more than willingly to it. But since I have the word, I would say that I think it's strange that the opposition parties seem to be much more concerned about, almost at any cost, getting green electrons out of the country instead of leaving green electrons in Norway, so that we can create new competitive industry. Where this violent chase for increased power exports comes from, I don't fully understand. Our ambition is that we should ensure that our own industry primarily has clean and reasonable energy. Then we will look later at the possibility of connecting to a North Sea network and possibly cooperating with other countries, including the green shift. But I don't meet a single industrial company – and I meet many of them – that's concerned that the electrons are going out of Norway. The industry is concerned that they have access to enough and clean renewable energy. That's what we're doing now when we speed up in Southern North Sea II.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e276	Terje Halleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e281	If someone was going to talk about the importance of exports, I thought it was the Minister of Industry, and really appreciate exporting and creating values by doing that. If he is opposed to export now, I think he has changed his mind very quickly. My question went at the extra cost, because this must, after all, be financed in some way. Then we can have a lot of green electrodes available – if we don't have a cost that is competitive abroad. If I turn on the question, because we're going to have someone to build, and there's going to be an interest out there in the business to establish parks on the southern North Sea: if one had thought the other way around and said no, we're going away from the hybrid cables, because it's not wanted by the government, but we're going to stick to radials – but the radials would have gone south – would it have been more or less interest from the industry to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e290	We feel that there is a great deal of interest from the industries, both on Südlige Nordsjö II, which is thus primarily bottom-solid sea wind, and not least there is a great interest along the entire energy coast – where the representative and I come from, Haugalandet – for liquid sea wind. This is where we can primarily create large-scale industry with Norwegian technology based on the shoulders of oil and gas. There the government has listened to the sea wind industry. We're going for qualitative competition instead of the auction model outside Utsira. This means that the Norwegian supplier industry will be more competitive, and that we can also think industrially about this, not only in terms of energy policy. Now we must not enter this new, amazing energy adventure in such a way that this is primarily about getting the energy away from Norway. We have to make sure that we get the energy to Norway, and then we're going to create large-scale industry, just as we did when social democracy brought Norway into the oil age. It's served Norway very well, and now we're going to do the same thing again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e297	Alfred Jens Bjørlo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e302	Had we been able to live in this country by the Minister of Industry's ambitions and visions, we would have met an unlikely bright future. There's nothing wrong with having it, but we also need very hard actually policies to get these visions out of life. Scotland has recently given the concession to 25 GW of sea wind in one day. Denmark will build 12 GW sea wind, Germany 30 GW before 2030 and the Netherlands 22 GW before 2030. And here we are still at the start-up stage. I have to be allowed to ask, when do we get a case to the Stortinget that is drawing up a really high level of ambition for marine window construction in Norway? Do you really imagine, in the large-scale sea window building we have to build in Norway, that over time it will not be connected on a European network, but that we will be our own island of energy that does not cooperate with the rest of Europe? Do you really think about it in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e311	Once again, there is a question to the Minister of Oil and Energy that I more than like to share some reflections about. Point 1: The Minister of Oil and Energy may come to Stortinget before the representative takes the floor, but this is not primarily about decisions here, it is primarily about getting concessions, allocations, putting the competitions in place and looking at how we can run processes in parallel. I think the representative is also more concerned that we get to the goal quickly than we are doing unnecessary complicated processes. Point 2: We are as impatient as the representative is, but now this government has ruled for five months. The bourgeois parties crashed for eight years. In the eight years, two floating sea wind turbines were put together outside the Norwegian coast – I repeat: two floating sea wind turbines in eight years. Now we've been running for five months, we're running the process, we're aiming for a faster progress, to get to the goal faster. First of all, the power to land, and then we'll see. If we have profits later, we also do not exclude other cooperative constellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e320	In the reply rounds it is not ‘you’, it is ‘the Council of States’ or ‘the representative’ that applies. Une Bastholm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e327	The war in Ukraine makes climate policy a security policy, and an extrovert and active industrial policy a peace policy. Several EU countries are now accelerating their renewable efforts to become independent of Putin as quickly as possible, and this requires, of course, good power exchange and good access to renewable energy. It is also critical for European climate change. It should therefore be clearer than ever that a sea wind farm in the south of the North Sea must be linked to Europe, both for the purpose of profitability in the project and for the sake of energy security for Norway and Europe. Has the attack war in Ukraine not in any way made any impression on the Minister of Industry and changed his view on whether Norway should have hybrid cables to the South North Seas and our marine wind farm there in order to contribute to a Europe that is now about to undergo a massive transformation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e332	This does not fall under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Industry, but I am now passing the word on to the Minister of Industry. - Councillor of the West, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e338	I like to share some reflections anyway. So it's for the first 1,500 MW that we've now decided to get the cables to land. I have now explained quite many times why it is important: ensuring the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry and dampening the price pressure at home. Paragraph 2: We do not exclude the further development of other types of cooperative constellations. That is why we are considering, for example: for the remaining 1500 MW in the first extension if one can connect it to a North Sea network. I am optimistic, because I am quite sure that wise heads in our country can manage to find a proper balance between ensuring clean and reasonable energy for their own consumption, while also contributing to the energy transformation into Europe. But we have to do that in a smart way that doesn't increase prices too much in Norway, because it will go hard on households and industry. I'm sure that we can do this, but the most important thing now is to get the development started, and so we "speed" up the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e347	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e352	My question is to the Minister of Justice. The fact that our neighbouring country Russia has gone to a brutal attack war on Ukraine has led to more than 10 million Ukrainians having to flee. Several million refugees now across borders, and that is a chaotic and unbridled situation. The Progress Party has always believed that refugees are best helped in their neighbourhoods, and we believe that, of course, now too, and that is why the Progress Party has been very clear that Norway must and must stand up for Ukrainians in exile. At the same time, however, we know that in the case of previous refugee crises and large refugee flows, the PST has warned that terrorists and other criminals would like to exploit refugee flows by interfering with them in order to infiltrate the Schengen area and thus also into Norway. It has, among other things, Sweden took the consequences of this. The Swedish government announced a few weeks ago that they wanted an extended border control and ID check, and has made proposals about this to Riksdag now, if I have understood correctly. The Progress Party then considered that Norway should, of course, follow suit. That is why we spoke about this two weeks ago, but the answer from the government and the council then was that she should wait and see, and that she should assess it. I continue to record that the Council of State is waiting and seeing, waiting for signals from the European Union. But the situation is that now we're dependent on having control of our borders. So the question to the Council of State is, how long will the Council of State now assess the situation before we can expect a conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e361	The Government has been committed to meeting Ukraine refugees in a good manner, in a controlled manner and in a responsible manner. That's why we introduced enhanced surveillance and intelligence on our borders quickly after the outbreak of the war in Ukraine. I am pleased that the Progress Party now thinks it is important to introduce border control and address it, because this is something we have assessed and continuously followed up on, and have done so for several weeks. But the police have a lot to do in the daytime. They're going to do a lot of problems now. They're going to register the refugees, and it's the government's concern that they're actually using resources, so we have control of who's in our country. The police and the PST shall further monitor the threat posed by those who wish to exploit the refugees. It's not just on the borders, it's on the whole country. Therefore, they must have the resources to follow up people who live in private homes, refugees who are around the municipalities, so that they are not exposed to abuses that we are unable to capture. If we were to introduce border control in the way it sounds like the Progress Party wants to do now, it would have put enormous pressure on the police. It would have been very difficult to put into practice. We believe that it is more appropriate to use police resources in other ways now to combat trafficking in human beings, to have security for refugees and to have security for national security. We follow the situation from day to day, and we have assessed border controls, as I said, for several weeks. And we're going to keep doing that. If it turns out to be an appropriate measure, we will introduce it. I believe that the Progress Party has a slightly wrong understanding of the rules in Sweden. I'm a minister in Norway, so I'm not going to try to get into an interpretation of it, but one of the proposals presented to the Parliament is about to introduce an ID check that corresponds to the carrier's liability that we now have in Norway. We already have border control on our ferries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e372	I record that the Council of State is clear that she wants to keep up with the situation from day to day. That is reassuring, but what the Norwegian people are now missing is actually action. Kripos was recently able to report that offenders are now carrying cross-border children. It's totally unacceptable. And one of the measures we could use to reduce this is to introduce a border control. Norway has had border control in previous refugee crises. In 2015–2016, the Centerpartiet was not in government. Then it was the Progress Party that put us in government, and we got a border control in place to get control of our borders. But I am now recording that the Council of State just wants to assess it further. The question is: will the Council of State make a clear conclusion and recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e381	My clear conclusion and recommendation is that the police and the PST are doing absolutely right to have reinforced intelligence and surveillance at the borders. They are right to use the possibility of identity control — not only at the border but also in the rest of Norway. It's called territorial control, and it's important because people who can commit abuses against vulnerable refugees are not only in border areas but also elsewhere. They are also quite right to use resources to raise awareness, competence and knowledge of the challenges of trafficking in human beings and the abuse of refugees, both in the police and in the municipalities where these people live. I am very aware of the challenge of criminal convictions transporting children. I was the one who first reported it, and Kripos confirmed it later that same day. So, of course, this is part of the government's assessment of what measures it is right to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e388	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e393	It is good for the government to report the problem, but it might also have been in place to provide concrete measures to address this unacceptable problem. But there are several challenges this refugee crisis has created, and I think everyone also understands that the government doesn't have everything in place from day one. What is important is to ensure that the refugees who arrive can be registered as quickly as possible, so that they can get out of Norwegian society without spending unnecessary time on reception, etc., but get out to school, kindergarten and work – out into society. We now see quite chaotic situations where people don't get to register. The government has set up a rather bureaucratic system. We know that before this crisis, Ukrainians with biometric passports had the opportunity to get a 90-day visa to Norway immediately. The question is why the Council of State does not now open up in order that Ukrainians with biometric passports may not have to go to advice, but rather can register in the political areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e400	The government has opened up registration at 18 new registration points in the country. It was the Progress Party and the Right that suggested that everything should be centralised. It has created a challenge in the situation we are now facing, because we see that there are refugees throughout the country. That's why we need the opportunity to register these refugees elsewhere. With the solution of the Progress Party now, we had spent all the resources on the police that they could stand on the border and control every single person. We hadn't registered people at the rate we're now adding. The government has been concerned that we know who is in Norway, that we know who they are, so that we can give them a good offer, take care of them, and that we avoid that, for example. terrorists or persons coming here to take advantage of the refugee situation can do so in hiding the flow of refugees. That is why I am very pleased that the government started a proper registration system from the day one that is overdue. Now we also see that more places in Europe are talking about more control, more registration is needed. Norway has done this from the very beginning – and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e407	Erlend Wiborg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e412	If you're a terrorist first and have managed to get into Norway, I don't think the first thing you do is knock on the police door to register you. That's why it's important to stop people on the border before they get into Norway. What's obvious when we see the refugee crisis we now have is that there's a completely different type of group of refugees coming to Norway. It's a group of refugees from our own cultural circle who will be very easily able to integrate and get out into Norwegian society. Therefore, we must be able to build up the bureaucracy here, so that we can help as much as possible. Yesterday I visited some Ukrainian refugees in Bamble who now have to go all the way to registration. The question that the Council of State did not answer is still: why do refugees with biometric passports, who have already been approved by Norwegian authorities as a valid identifier, have to travel from Bamble to Council, instead of being able to register there in an unbureaucratic way and thus also release police resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e418	It is important that we register the refugees properly. Those who have a biometric passport and have visa freedom for Norway may be here for 90 days without registration, but they will not receive any offer from the authorities either. If they want help from the authorities — have follow-up, that the children go to school, that kind of thing — they have to register to apply for temporary collective protection, which, if granted, gives the opportunity to live in a municipality, go to school, take a job from day one. It is important that we have good control of the registration. It's not just that you have to scan the passport, and then you're registered. You also need to figure out what these people can do, whether they're extra vulnerable and need extra follow-up. We have cut down the information we record, to the minimum to make it as quick as possible and as effective as possible, but there is also a limit to how far down we can go on quality if we are to be able to get them into society in a good way when we are going to settle them, which is under the Minister of Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e423	Mari Holm Lønseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e428	So there are major challenges to the registration of refugees. We know examples of people who have an employer ready, who want to go to work, but who are scheduled to have several weeks of waiting to be registered. It's very problematic, even if you're just here on visa freedom, just because you're not allowed to work if you're not registered. Of course, we need to have control of the identity of those who come – I think everyone can agree on that – but when you experience as great challenges with registration as you do now, I think it is important that you are also creative. During the pandemic, we had good experience in using retired health professionals to assist. I think – and the right has called for this – that we should use retired police officers to ensure that we get a faster registration. It will free resources. Governments also point out that much is being taken from the police now. Will the Council of State ensure that retired police officers are given the opportunity to enter into service? And if so, why hasn't she already done it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e433	I want to look at that problem, whether we can use that resource. In the first place, it has been important to strengthen the Foreign Office of the Police and all the others who are going to work to deal with this as quickly as possible. That is why the Police Foreign Office has transferred more than 400 posts. We have established many new registration sites, as I said to the previous representative, because the system we inherited from the Right was not entirely suitable for this situation. They were not prepared for such a great influx and the refugees came to the whole country. That is why we have now taken a number of measures to raise capacity, both at Council level and in the rest of the country. I think we have to admit that in the future there will be some waiting time. This will gradually put pressure on more and more parts of Norway. The reason why I say that is because I want people to be prepared for us to still be in the initial phase of what might become a very big crisis. I also see that we are doing well in relation to the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e438	Grete Wold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e443	The centralisation of the police registration carried out by the previous government has clearly decentralised this government, but we hear that there are difficulties in capacity, as several of the questioners have addressed today. We also hear that many people choose not to register, precisely because they are concerned that if they register, for example. at their disposal, they could be sent to other places in the country than where they have now been accommodated privately with acquaintances and perhaps family members. The Council of State has moved to see something about this issue, and how can we ensure that everyone is registered, so that we all get a good overview of the challenges and the rights we now need to ensure?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e448	With regard to the place of residence of the refugees, the Minister for Labour and Inclusion is below the Minister for Labour. But I can say that it's an opportunity, if you've already come to a municipality or have a family, to live there, but it has to be through an agreement between the municipality and the IMDI, so it's provided that it's possible to deal with them. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion needs to look into this in more detail. When it comes to getting people to register, I know that challenge. We've been busy getting information to the refugees about what it's really about to register. It is important to understand that it is a good thing if you want to have a work permit and want to have a follow-up from the authorities in Norway. It's also important for the authorities to know who's here, both for our part and for the refugees themselves, so that we can manage to follow them up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e455	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e460	There's something that worries me deeply about the time, and it's the food prices, that's just the path and the path and the path. In February we got a huge increase, and one expects an even greater increase in the food prices of the people in June. At the same time, the merchandise that the Norwegian people buy in the store is already the price too high. To be more precise, the Norwegian shopping cart is 36 billion. kr more expensive than she is in Sweden and Denmark, shows research from 2018. Norwegian customs duties and charges are included. The consequences of these prices extend far beyond high prices. Lack of competition and concentration of power in the grocery market also weakens the whole structure of agriculture. We see the consequences of this especially in the districts. In North Norway, for example, Nortura tells that because they have to adapt to this highly centralised market, they do not realize that they can operate in the north. They have two slaughterhouses in North Norway today. In Troms, my homeland, seven cattle were slaughtered only in March – seven operators went out of business there. It is also said that taxing property and equipment is one of the most important activities now. A map of what kind of values you have, because you should leave the profession. It's dramatic. The situation in the daily food industry is an important reason why we do not get low prices for consumers, and it also weakens agriculture. And this happens in the middle of an expensive time. Here the Minister of Industry has a very central role. Støre has previously been in favour of proposals from SV, but the Minister of Industry has not yet said anything. What can the Storting expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e471	Thank you for a good and very important question. I fully share the representative's concerns, not least as regards the competitive situation in the daily food industry. I am very pleased that there is a broad political majority on the Stortingen who are concerned about this, and that in the last round, when the previous government's daily food report was discussed, we gathered the forces and came up with joint actions. I can reassure the representative that we are working on following up all the measures contained in it. For example, the Competition Authority carries out: more controls than they did before. They are now constantly monitoring the competitive situation in the groceries market. I have met the competition director myself and asked her explicitly to assess whether the toolbox is solid enough, or whether we need to strengthen the instruments. In the previous round, assessments were also made as to whether a person should go further in terms of differentiated pricing, vertical integration and so-called EMVs, i.e. these own brand schemes. In the previous round we received a little different professional advice. I am very concerned that if we are going to introduce measures now, which I absolutely do not exclude that we should do, it must be based on knowledge and research and the best advice we can get. That's why we're also working on assessing whether the knowledge we already have is sufficient. I am also more than open so that we can bring in competence from abroad to see what might be done. Increased knowledge is important in the population as well. It is important that the big daily giants know that we are following closely. This is a theme that very many people are concerned about, and I think they themselves deserve to exhibit as much openness as possible. They are also well served that competition is as good as possible. I would like to invite the parties at Stortinget, both position and opposition, to form a broad majority and to unite the forces and work together to see if there is a need to take further action to meet a challenge that we are all concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e484	It is good over a year since the Stortingen became a few about a series of measures to be implemented, which together constitute a daily food reform. It ranges from openness to separation of the different joints in the value chain. It's about the role of the Competition Authority, and a co-conspirator's growth really means that the Competition Authority really needs to step up if we're to get proper competition here. It's about own brands – how they push out actors, weaken innovation and lead to production abroad. It's about how discounts are organised, where they don't follow, but there are single actors who, through price discrimination, are left with the big gain – the discounts don't come out to the consumer. And it's about border trade. It is good over a year ago, and now we are in a critical phase. Can the Council explain when this will happen? It sounds like a lot of distributions, but when can we get some grip from the government's side?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e492	As I said, all the measures that the Storting has adopted, we are working on implementing. This also applies to the role of the Competition Surveillance Authority. They have the resources to follow up on this, and they have it high on the agenda. As I said, I have personally been assured that our new, very competent competition director has this high on his agenda, and she and her staff have it. We have also asked them to make proposals if further action is needed. If there were any simple quick fix we could now take up the hat and implement, I can guarantee that the government had taken the initiative, because we are as concerned about this as the representative is. But when the groceries message was last addressed by Stortinget, I think it was a rather cohesive big deal that thought that one had exhausted the possibilities that were then for new measures and follow-up. Therefore, it is important that we now focus on implementing them, while at the same time assessing whether we should take further action. But additional grip must be based on what works.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e499	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e504	Everyone knows that there is no smart fix, but this is a problem that has been known and that the Storting has agreed to have been a major problem. There is a major social problem that there is a lack of competition in the food market. I think there have been at least three major public statements on this issue and a lot of suggestions – they are not built on any quick fix – about how to deal with this. It's about simple things like that one can't have as big actors as both dominate the entire daily food field and are integrated far down the value chain. We can't have discounts like a buy-in scheme, not follow, but only lead to extra cross-subsidies or own brands that make one expand its power and position when it comes to the piece. This is a development that has also speeded up in recent years. That's why I think it's a little strange that you can't signal the direction you're going in right now. So the big question is, when can the Storting expect anything from the government about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e511	The direction is very clear. We are going to implement what the Stortinget has already decided. It's a complicated job, we're working on it, and we also like to consider new measures, but there must be measures that work. And once again, there's an open invitation to the whole Size, Position and Opposition: Let's sit down and see if there's any new action that can be taken. I would just like to stress that when it comes to discounts, it is such that anti-competitive price discrimination is already prohibited. The competition authorities are concerned about this, and they are going to be even more concerned about it in the future. There are some who have suggested that it should, for example: shall be a prohibition on differentiated prices. Well, it might have something to do with it, but it may also have some negative effects that contribute to the opposite intent, namely, to weaken competition, among other things. because it can reduce the incentives of purchasers to negotiate at better prices. This means that the final sum of the checkout will increase, and it could also help suppliers to reduce their desire to make discounts because they will then have to give them to everyone. It could also increase the price tag on the shopping list.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e518	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e523	Yes, I agree with that, but I don't think anyone here suggests that a person should do it when it comes to price discrimination. This is, of course, about creating a system that will remove the indiscriminate price discrimination. The Norway Group has 10-15 pst. better purchasing conditions than others, but in the store the same price. So it's obvious that these are some values that really are deviating in the billions class. It looks one through the whole value chain. There we have the problem in many ways. It happens at a time when prices are rising, and where agriculture and producers are struggling because of other situations, so that this really only makes things worse. Then it's interesting to right their review. Now we have a series of suggestions on the Stortinget, and we'll see how they go, but while we're waiting for grip, what will the government, for example, do? in the case of Nortura, who labored to maintain its operations in North Norway? Would you like to take remedial action to avoid it? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e530	It is important that the whole cooperative works and that the whole value chain works. Now the whole value chain for food is experiencing great challenges. Of course, it's also a development that is accelerating after the terrible war in Ukraine, with the energy prices, the gas prices, the transport that is being made difficult, some raw materials that it won't be impossible to get hold of, but that can take some detours before they get here. It is not easy to answer the question of what a specific person should do in each case, simply because everything is related to everything. However, at least contributing to the widest possible open competition, now also through the strengthening of the Competition Authority and additional attention to this, will, of course, be important. Then we also have a very heavy responsibility to ensure that there is food in the store shelves. There is no danger; it is going to be. But as I said, we are following this very closely, because the war in Ukraine will also have consequences for the value chains at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e537	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e542	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. In February this year, the Riksadvokat report on coercive drug use in minor drug cases was presented. It states that the police have committed very many acts of unlawful interference against individuals. The brides go, among other things, lack of authority, incorrect use of urgency and disproportionate use of coercive means. This means that people have been subjected to physical, blood and urine tests, etc., without any grounds for doing so. This is very serious, and there is a violation of the human rights of individuals. The National Attorney took only three weeks in his 2021 study, and it must unfortunately be assumed that there are far more cases than can be read from the report. The national lawyer has later emphasised that there are systematic errors and deficiencies in the police's handling of coercive drug use before 9 April 2021. The Ministry of Justice, through the Secretary of State, has complained to all those who have been subjected to illegal investigations. I think it would mean a lot to many people to be able to get this complaint directly from the Minister of Justice. The size only relates to the Council of State. Now the Council of State of the United Kingdom has the opportunity to complain on behalf of the government. Will the Council of State complain on behalf of the Government of all those who have been subjected to illegal coercive use in these cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e553	It is not good that this has happened, and I am also pleased that the police and the National Attorney have discovered this and have taken steps to ensure that it does not happen in the future. The police have also regretted this themselves. I trust that they will follow this up in a good way in the future, and I also expect a high level of attention to be given to this now. I'm sure they're in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e558	I hear no regrets from the Council of State. I think it is an incredible shame and acknowledgment that the Council of State does not answer my question and will not complain that the State has committed systematic crimes against its citizens for several years. For me, this suggests that the Council of State does not see the seriousness of the human rights violations that have been committed, but I go on. This illegal coercive drug use against people in possession of minor quantities of drugs is a violation of human rights, and the State has a duty to restore to them. The left has proposed an extraordinary system of upliftment for these people. Will the Council of State establish exceptional restitution arrangements for those who have been subjected to illicit coercive use in these cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e566	I look very seriously at this matter, and therefore I am also pleased that it has emerged today, so that it has been possible for the police and the State Attorney to take action in the light of the practice, and also for the police to complain to those who have been exposed to this. So I believe that if we are talking about uplifting and replacement matters on a general basis, we have to deal with them through the arrangements we have. It is not currently appropriate to establish an exceptional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e573	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e578	The Advocate General has also stated that there are systematic errors and deficiencies in the police handling of these cases before 9 April 2021. The police director has previously stated that she is pleased that there are no systematic errors and deficiencies. Is the Council of State in agreement with the National Attorney-General that there are systematic errors and deficiencies in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e585	I refer to the findings made in the report. And I'm glad you've done the job of going through the practice and looking at what kind of action is needed to clean up. And then I record that the police have complained that this has happened, and that a number of measures have been taken to ensure that you do not continue that practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e590	Sveinung Stensland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e595	It's almost spectacular to hear a councillor who doesn't stand behind his own Secretary of State's regret. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice has lamented the police’s way of working on this issue, but the Council of State will not repeat it. I will once again give the Council of State an opportunity to be allowed to complain about those who have been affected, the unfortunate activity that has happened, on less serious drug issues. At the same time, the Council of State is clear that the practice is unacceptable, but I wonder: What should the Council of State do to clean up? How is she supposed to restore trust in the Council of State? Does the Council of State agree that the police director himself should complain on behalf of the police? First of all, I would like to ask the Council of State if she agrees with the complaint that her own State Secretary has made on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e602	Then I refer to the answer to the first question from Thorsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e607	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e612	My question goes to the Minister of State. The municipalities are now being asked to settle 35,000 refugees. It's great to see that the municipalities show great willingness to provide good services to the refugees. At the same time, we have to be honest that this can be a challenge, but we're going to be able to solve them. Several municipalities say that the overall pressure on services and personnel can become persistently high. Many also ask for clearer feedback on the subsidies to be granted to the local government sector if they are in fact consistent with the costs that await the sector. Many also say that they lack clear information from the authorities on how to settle, and what offers will be given to those who come. Housing is not the responsibility of the Council of State, but the conditions in the municipal sector and the service provision are. It is demanding for the local government sector now to go from one crisis to another, and there are many people in the local government sector who are feeling right now. The pandemic's not over. People have worked a lot over a long time, and it's often the same people who now have to fold up their sleeves in order for all the residents to get kindergarten, school and health care. In order to provide good services to both those who live in the municipality today, and the refugees who come tomorrow, the municipalities must therefore prepare to increase their capacity. How will the Council of State now ensure that the municipalities have the capacity and personnel they need to provide good services to all the inhabitants of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e623	That's what the representative says, a serious situation we're in. The war in Ukraine also has ring-effects for the whole continent and for us here in Norway in different ways, including: by the fact that many people come here and seek security. We have to deal with that. Like the representative, I am very pleased with both the cross-political will and the coherence we have across the Norwegian community to mobilize now and set up to deal with the situation. I noticed the survey that the NRK presented yesterday from a very large number of municipalities in the country, which reported that they have been able to answer well the questions about housing from the government that there is a deadline for replying tomorrow, and in fact also that they are willing to do more than 35,000. But it's, as it's said here, a demanding situation in the municipalities. Many felt that it was hard and demanding even before the pandemic to reach out with all the services. Then you've been in a pandemic for two years, which has challenged, in particular, perhaps, in health care and in the growing-up sector, and now this is coming. We need to take this seriously, and we need to provide security for the municipalities to have a framework that makes it possible to deal with this. It's about the economy. There we have announced that additional costs due to the special situation will also be covered by the ordinary means. The government has, for example: notified – in addition to the host municipality grants to municipalities with asylum recipients and the integration grant for residence – that a system of discretion would be provided to the state administrators relating to the additional costs of reception, and notified those municipalities that are concerned about building up too much capacity if no one comes, that they would have to have a compensation mechanism to provide it with security, so that municipalities could provide services and rigged to accept what is now needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e630	Many of those who contact us now in the municipalities are concerned that they cannot do the services they are going to do and that they do not have a complete overview of what services they are actually going to provide. It is great that the government has now announced that it will review all the laws and regulations to see which offers to make, and whether there is something temporary to give, which the Right also raised at the end of February. But it comes, as I understand from the press conference on Friday, first over Easter. In crisis situations, it is important that we have good communication and clear government signals. Therefore, we believe it is important that we take seriously the feedback that is coming. There are fine statements about the economic aspects of it, also in the Council's replies. But I wonder if the Council of State can say a little more about what concrete plans the government has for creating predictability and giving clearer signals to the municipalities to ensure that they can also give the help they are going to give to those who are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e638	Before I give the word to the Council of State, I just want to state that there will be no room for further questions. This is done to get through all that we're going to do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e643	It is now primarily very close and ongoing contact with the local government sector to ensure that there is a good dialogue. It concerns the departments responsible and the underlying departments. I will attend a separate meeting with all the municipalities myself during the day after tomorrow. From my own responsibility, I can mention a field in which the municipalities are very concerned, namely to have the capacity to live and have access to dwellings. We have announced – and it will be made concrete on Friday – a strong commitment to measures to provide more housing in Kommune-Norge, to provide more rental homes, to refurbish more dwellings, so that, in addition to the provision of childcare services, school services, etc., we can ensure that we get a good settlement as quickly as possible in Kommune-Norge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e648	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e653	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. In the Hurdal platform, the government announces an active industrial policy, where the government will engage with a very powerful toolbox and facilitate living communities and workplaces throughout the country. So far, the only powerful measure is a historical tax increase of nearly 9 billion. kr, which has affected industry and Norwegian owners in particular: Property taxes have increased. The valuation of shares and operating resources has increased from 50 p.m. to 75 pst. The dividend tax has increased to 35 pst., the CO 2 tax has increased by almost 30 pst., to mention some of the most dramatic and direct weakening the competitive conditions of Norwegian companies and Norwegian owners. The supporting party SV has even announced that this is just a start. At the same time as the government wants to tax harder, very many industries, especially industries dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises, experience a formidable increase in costs on many inputs, especially on energy. Both electricity and fuel prices are now at an extremely high level. These are increased costs which cannot be automatically invoiced to customers but which weaken the company's liquidity, stop investments and endanger jobs. The Progress Party has repeatedly challenged the Minister of Finance on concrete measures to compensate for cost increases by removing or reducing charges. He'll wait and see and wait and see. How long will the Minister of Industry wait and see? And what does this powerful toolbox actually contain, in addition to powerful tax increases and powerful rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e667	Thank you for the question. The company tax is fixed. There is a broad consensus on the Stortinget, and the Labour Party in the Government is a guarantor of this. We have a competitive tax system for Norwegian business. And we also see that when we do international comparisons. The representative refers to taxes on wealth. There our parties, as he knows, have somewhat different visions. The removal of the property tax would make 25 000 Northmen zero-taxors. That's not how we build trust in the tax system, so we have increased property tax somewhat. It's not back at the level we had under the Stoltenberg II government, but it's something higher than under the Solberg government. But it still makes us really have a competitive taxation of real estate compared to many other countries in Europe. Then the representative asks about fuel prices. One of the reasons we chose to protect the car lists for the increase in the CO 2 tax in the fall was that we do not want it to go against ordinary people and ordinary businesses. So ask the representative if exceptional measures are to be taken to meet high energy prices. Well, it's already granted over 15 billion. SEK in electricity support for a wide range of sectors and households. The electricity charge is down. 1 billion. kr of that decline benefits business. Then it is important to stress that there is a difference between what is the responsibility of companies to do for their own account and risk, and what taxpayers have to do with. Over the winter, we have granted over 20 billion. kr through corona support to business. As a result, we got out of this crisis with record low unemployment. That policy has worked well, but it also has a cost. Now we're risking inflation and increasing interest rates. Our export companies will be seriously affected, and therefore we need to be careful about how we use public funds, and what is the responsibility of our companies, and what is the responsibility of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e683	I just want to make it clear that, especially after the recent tax changes that the government has implemented, the tax on ownership in Norway is almost at the top of the world. So it's no good for those who want to invest and invest in Norway. I didn't hear much concrete, except that something that is given to individual industries, but there's nothing in general about business, that's experiencing a huge challenge with high electricity prices and high fuel prices, as well as rising commodity prices. We get a lot of concrete examples: the Millba ski company, which is in the food industry and has 180 employees, is postponing all investments. So the current calculations are now four times as high as they were in 2020. Your Baker organizes 70 local bakeries and pastries with over 4,000 employees, and for these members, electricity costs increased by 500 pst. in 2021 and may increase by 250 pst. in years if this continues. The Toolbox is completely empty? Can it really be so bad that it's empty after five months?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e690	The toolbox consists of a lot more than government subsidies, and many of the companies that the representative mentions, I know well. I also meet many other companies. And we have a lot of understanding that they are now experiencing an extraordinary situation with high power prices. Therefore, we do not exclude that further measures will be taken in addition to the reduction of electricity taxes, but it is important to stress that we should also be very careful about how we use public finances. We must not get into a situation where it is the taxpayers who are the insurance fund for fluctuating prices in business. I come from ten years in industry myself, and I know that prices go up and down – on electricity, raw materials, transport and a number of other inputs. We're facing a demanding paycheck, we have a central bank that has announced interest increases, and it can't be the taxpayers who have to be responsible for covering this for business. However, we do not rule out the possibility of action. And the enterprise policy toolbox is made up of a lot of other things, which I hope we can get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e697	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e702	I'm not going to ask any more complaints, even if it could have been in place, but my next question goes to the Minister of Justice. The PST estimates that the intelligence threat from Russia is higher now than before the war in Ukraine. In particular, the PST points out that Russia can try to gather information on Norwegian attitudes and decision-making processes. Such information may be used to spread incorrect information, then split and negligee under contradictions. Such instruments, called hybrid threats, are a greater threat to Norway, Norwegian values and our liberal democracy than in the past. It is good that the government has granted more money to PST and NSM, but that is not enough. There is also a need for more resources to prevent, detect and correct foreign intelligence and influence attempts. In the government, the Right sent two concrete proposals to consult to clarify the intelligence mission and mandate of the PST. One was to legislate and clarify the tasks of the PST as a domestic intelligence service, as well as to allow the PST to store, systematise and analyse large amounts of open information available for intelligence purposes. The second proposal was to criminalise cooperation with a foreign intelligence service to carry out influence activities. The aim is to counteract acts of influence aimed at decisions or the general formation of opinion in Norway and there is cooperation with such powers as are proposed criminalised. The consultation period for both of these proposals has expired, and they are ready to be promoted by the Stortinget. It's urgent. There is war in Europe, and the security policy situation is more tense than in many decades, but instead of acting, the government makes proposals dust in a drawer in the department. Will the State Council provide the PST with a clearer intelligence mission with multiple bases to detect attempts at foreign intelligence and influence activities against Norway? When can we expect the Council of State to make proposals to the Grand Council on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e715	In view of the situation in Ukraine, the Russian invasion, the government has taken immediate action. We have proposed to the Stortinget that half a billion dollars be allocated to civil protection. A large part of this will be aimed at strengthening the PST, tackling foreign intelligence in Norway and security in Norway. Even before the invasion, this was something the government was very concerned about, because we thought that the previous government, of which the Right was part, had too little focus on preparedness. That's why we have, among other things, strengthened NSM. We want to have a screening mechanism in place to capture foreign investment that could be a threat to Norway. We have strengthened preparedness in many areas. With regard to the two proposals, I fully agree that it is important to consider allowing the police to search open sources, and what is going on criminalising influence. It is absolutely right that these have been at the hearing. It is also quite right that they are being treated in the department. That they're dusting into a drawer is wrong. What is true, on the other hand, is that these proposals, which the Right sent to the hearing, have in their original form very problematic aspects of privacy, and they have been criticised by, among other things, The Association of Lawyers and Human Rights Organisations. That's why we're now working on finding a good solution that both gives the police the tools they need and that ensures privacy in a good way. Here I think it should be possible for the Storting together to find good solutions. I also answered that last week, if I do not remember completely wrong, because then I got the same question in the questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e722	Granting money is good. That's what I said in my question. It's also very easy when you're a Norwegian State Council, because we have enough of the money. But what I'm concerned about is political action. The fact that there are resistances and objections only shows that one needs to use political force to find solutions. We are ready to adopt these proposals as soon as the Council of State delivers them to the Stortinget. The government has slept on guard – these are not my words. This is opposition politician Mehls at the time. She was very high and dark in matters of national security, and I had hoped to see the same attitude as she now sits with responsibility. As stated, PST points out that foreign intelligence services can exploit weaknesses in technology and supply chains to drive intelligence towards Norway. Yes, it's difficult, it's very demanding, and it points to some basic democratic rights people have, but it's actually government's job to balance it against society's need for security. Does the Minister of Justice intend to do that job and get these legislative proposals in place as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e738	The last government fell asleep on guard. The previous government was in the process of giving Russia control over a factory that would be very important to them in defence. It was in Bergen. That was the Bergen Engines case, which I assume belonged to. Because of a wake-up opposition – as the Workers' Party, the Center Party and also the Advance Party were part of that – we were able to stop that sale. We were also given national security on the agenda. As a result, we have now had reviews of the Security Act. We prioritised national security in the additional proposition from the government in the autumn, and we are now taking immediate action in the light of the war in Ukraine. We have taken action to improve cooperation between departments. We have taken action to strengthen the National Security Authority, which is the cyberattack service, and to strengthen the PST and the police. I'm very happy that it's the Workers' Party and the Center Party that is now controlling this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e743	The oral question time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e757	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will show you in the context of the electronic question list. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Terje Hansen to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment as the appropriate representative. The question must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Climate and Environment has left. Questions 3 and 4 from the representatives of Harek Elvenes and Ingrid Fikaa, respectively, to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 5 and 6 from the respective representatives Seher Aydar and Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for Climate and Environment must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Family as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e775	‘The ongoing financial sanctions against Russian oligarchs have updated the need for a ownership register in Norway, which provides an overview of who owns which companies. Today, oligarchs on the penalty list can be the real owner of companies in Norway, of luxury properties and infrastructure, without our knowledge of it. When the ownership register comes in place, the government will lower the registration threshold for real rights holders and make other changes in line with the Innst leaders. 143 L [[2018–2019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e782	I want to thank you for the question. The question asked by the representative refers to two different issues, both of which are followed up in different processes of the government. In the case of the register of beneficial owners of rights, it is my responsibility. I guess that's what the representative meant by the ownership register. It is important to clarify that the register of beneficial owners is not to be regarded as a register of ownership, although it does contain a good deal of information about ownership. The register of beneficial owners of rights is under development in the Brønn Island Health Registers. As of now, it is planned to start up the register early in 2023. The assumptions and leadership of the registry are firm and there are no plans to make changes to the project now that could delay the development. However, I would like to follow that the rules of the register continue to be in line with established international practices. It is the Minister of Industry who has primarily dealt with issues relating to shareholder information, regardless of threshold values. In the written reply from the Minister of Industry to the representative Kaski earlier this winter, he showed, among other things: that everyone has the right to have access to information about direct ownership of limited liability companies today. At the same time, there is a broad consensus that access to the information may in practice be difficult to obtain since it is necessary to contact the individual company. The sources publicly available are only updated annually. Work is under way to assess a solution for comprehensive and simplified reporting and the making available of shareholder information. The Minister of Industry pointed out in the reply that such a solution must be based on a solid legal basis that underpins the policy objectives of transparency of ownership, while also ensuring other important societal considerations: value creation, reduction of business reporting costs, stable financial markets and control of personal data.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e793	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that this is a matter that has been discussed over a long period of time in Stortinget, since 2015, when the Stortinget took the first decision to put such a register in place, and it has been highly updated as a result of Russia's war on Ukraine and the ongoing economic sanctions. Therefore, I must say it is alarming to hear that the register is then until the degrees are delayed. The latest information we received was that it should be in place on 30 April – with limited functionality. Then my further questions are: What is the background for this delay? Does this mean that the government will now ensure that when the register first comes into operation, it has full functionality? And are you considering changing the regulation that the previous government made for this register, which was limited in its follow-up to the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e802	As I said in my answer, we plan to start the registry early in 2023, and the assessments that are made are that if one is to add many new leaders or changes to the project, it could make it a later start. That is why I and the government believe that it is wise now to let the work go its way, in order to put the register in place as quickly as possible, and that it is planned to take place early in 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e807	I get that. The finance minister says that making changes now could further delay the register, but one would think that this is related to the practical and more technical solutions of such a type of register. One of the Financial Committee of the Storting was a wish for, among other things. having a threshold value lower than 25 pst. ownership to be recorded. On the stock exchange you operate with a 5 pst. the limit of registration. It was also clear from Stortinget’s point of view that Norway should be a leading country here, and we see that other countries operate at lower borders. This is important because you can be the real owner of a company even if you have a lower holding than 25 pst. In the worst case, you can have Russian oligarchs on the penalty list that own companies, but with a lower proportion, that are not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e818	Natural persons who, through other legal units, have sufficient influence shall also be recorded and a threshold of 25 pst. is well established. We are also working on several other things, for which the representative Kaski also has the co-lord, for example. to have more overview of buying-in, as the screening mechanism SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre put money into the State budget last autumn. It also looks at property registers on land, for which the Minister of Local and District Affairs is responsible, and ownership of real estate. So you try here to go in several ways. We have also been concerned in the government statement to see if there may be changes in the law that can ensure even safer national ownership of real estate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e868	These questions have been postponed until the next question time. So we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e878	‘In the debate on the closure of the county municipality on Friday, 18 March 2022, the following allegation was made by the representative Heidi Greni of the Centerpartie: It is not a contradiction of the county council, but a contradiction of the state administrator who is the problem of local democracy. Now there's a new government, and everything was to be taken care of, it was said. Can the Council of State do what he has done since the government change in order to encourage government administrators to reduce the number of countersigns?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e885	In the Hurdalsplattsfinnen, government parties have said that we will facilitate housing and value creation throughout the country. More housing will be provided in areas with a low population density and municipalities will be given greater freedom of action in terms of where new dwellings will be built in the municipalities. Local self-government is important. Governments and regional authorities should therefore focus on local democracy when considering whether to raise objections. Government objections need to be reduced and better coordinated, and state administrators need to be predictable through planning processes. These are the signals I convey in my dialogue with the state administrators, and which the ministry will follow up on in the ongoing efforts to improve opposition practices. This will also be a guide when the department itself deals with unresolved objections. In this regard, I would like to mention that I now have very few objections pending in the department. After the government change, I have made a decision in eight, almost nine, objections. In seven, almost eight, of these, the municipality has received full or partial support. The government will have a land policy that contributes to development across the country. This means that national policies need to be adapted to local and regional conditions. I would like to make two specific points: one is the beach zone. The state planning guidelines for the coastal zone have recently been revised and it appears that the guidelines provide a good starting point for more flexibility and local adaptation. In areas with high expansion pressures, the construction ban shall continue to be strictly enforced. However, in areas with less expansionary pressures, the guidelines will increase local authorities’ freedom of action and facilitate more nutrient development and housing. In order to benefit from the local action space provided by the new planning guidelines, municipalities need to update their spatial plans. This will also reduce the need for exemptions. As the state planning guidelines for the coastal zone have recently been revised, I have placed the most emphasis on the state planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning. It takes a lot of people around the country. The Government has launched an evaluation of these guidelines, in line with the Hurdal Platform. The platform states that guidelines need to be implemented — and where appropriate amended — to facilitate growth and development in areas with weak or negative population development. Exploratory work will provide a professional basis for further work on evaluating and, where appropriate, reviewing the planning guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e896	Thanks for the answer. The Progress Party wants to strengthen local democracy and reduce state detail management. We trust that municipalities will take care of the health and concerns of national and regional interests in their planning. During the period of the Progress Party in government, the municipalities received full or partial support for the counterparts of municipal spatial plans in excess of 80 pst. of the case, against 40 pst. under the red-green. Now one sees that in the 30 counterclaim cases decided by KMD in 2021, the municipalities had 13 of the cases, and in 9 of the cases they had an interim solution. Now I'm listening to the answer that it's a good track record from this government. Can the Minister guarantee that this is the direction that the government will continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e903	As I said, of the nine applications under consideration, the municipality and local democracy will be supported, in whole or in part, in eight of them. So the statistics are good in the comparison that the representative made. It is, of course, the substance of the cases that will determine how they are finally to be dealt with. They must be clearly assessed separately. I also believe, like the representative, that local democracy takes this responsibility seriously. It has a responsibility not only for local interests but also for important regional and national interests. To balance these interests is a great responsibility for the municipality to have. These are difficult balances. I think, as I was in my answer, that the best basis the municipalities can have in order to make those balances good and avoid unnecessary many objections is to have an up-to-date plan. It provides the best basis for dealing with all the individual issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e910	The minister was inside this with the beach zone, and the differentiated beach area is an improvement, but it is still not good enough for many municipalities. The building limit of the sea is important for the development of many coastal municipalities. I myself live on the island of Stord and know that this is actually challenging. Can the Minister confirm that local self-government is also important in the coastal zone, and has the Minister thought about improving local democracy, so that the counterparts of the administrator are reduced to a minimum in that area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e915	As I said, the state planning guidelines for the beach zone have been revised quite recently, and a differentiated management has been continued in the regulations. I think that's very correct. There are press areas – not least around Oslofjord, for example, and other places – where there must be strong restrictions, while there are other places in the country where one should be more liberal. The revision that took place here earlier reinforced, in my view, the possibilities for action on nutrition and other measures in the areas where the pressure problems are least. Here, too, is the point we were making, that the best way to deal with this for the municipality is to ensure that you have up-to-date planning, even when looking at land issues in the beach zone, so that you don't control after exemptions. I think that would be unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e925	‘The county authorities are responsible for large parts of the road network and the ferry operations in this country. The old state roads and highway ferries were forced into the county councils the last time it was red-green government, in 2010, by the Central Party Councils. The vegetation level is tens of billions of dollars. Does the government want to do anything about this huge plantation on the roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e932	Governments have been involved in the maintenance work on the roads in general, and especially on the county roads. In the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the Government of Stoltenberg presented a proposal to strengthen the framework grant to county municipalities in order to renew and upgrade the county road network with a framework of 10 billion. kr for the planning period. The background to the action was monitoring carried out in 2010 and 2012, which showed that the cost estimate would be in the range of 45 to 75 billion at the time. kr to remove the maturing of the county roads. In the 2014 budget, the then Stoltenberg Government proposed to allocate 500 million. kr for renewal and upgrading of county roads. The Solberg Government increased the sum and until now funds have been allocated to the framework grant to counties for upgrading and renewal of the county road network based on the abovementioned mapping. Subsequently, funds have also been put in place for upgrading tunnels in the county road network. This has not been sufficient to eliminate congestion and, in the National Transport Plans 2022-2033, the Solberg Government has increased its commitment to county roads during the planning period, both by establishing an ear-marked grant scheme for county roads and by strengthening funds from the framework grant to implement measures under the tunnel regulations on county roads. Our government wants to have something done with the maintenance seat suspension on county roads. It is clear from the Hurdal platform that the government will ‘develop a comprehensive and binding plan to reduce the maintenance run on county roads in cooperation with county municipalities’. In my opinion, it is important to start work on re-monitoring the state of the county road network, as provided for in the national transport plan. It's been over ten years since the last survey took place. I have therefore commissioned the State Road Administration to coordinate a new survey of the state of the county road network in each county municipality, and then in cooperation with them. The Ministry has also asked the State Road Administration to engage in dialogue with the County Municipality in order to identify appropriate principles and methods for carrying out the monitoring. So my answer to the representative, Sve, is: Yes, the government will do something about the maintenance run on county roads, and we're working on it. With the signals that the previous government also gave in the national transport plan, there should be a good opportunity for a joint effort in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e947	I have been in county policy for almost 20 years and followed up on how the development of the economy is in the county municipalities, and the requirements that came in 2010, where the old highways and highway ferries were moved from the state to the county municipalities. Only in More and Romesdal is it between 8 and 9 billion. kr in road maintenance trailer, in addition to the costs of the ferry operation, with ferries, etc. It was a big debate about moving responsibility for the old national roads from state to county, and it has been a debate about whether they should go back to state. According to the Council of State's view, will the county councils be able to take responsibility for re-establishing the system, no matter what kind of system you come up with? Or will the Council of State take responsibility for the old highways?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e954	It is important in order to have a reasonable debate on this very question of establishing the basis, point 1, that the county authorities themselves wanted to transfer these roads, and, point 2, the last government before us also transferred together the road administration to the counties. There has therefore been a broad cross-political desire to strengthen the responsibility of the counties for roads in Norway. It is also, as I have explained in my reply, fortunately a broad political agreement that we should help the county councils with the maintenance set-up. But there are also maintenance kits on national roads, so here there will always be a balance between priorities. Despite the fact that the county councils are of course concerned about the maintenance seat run, I have not heard any of these order that we should take responsibility for the road network back.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e961	I think there are slightly different perceptions of exactly what is going on about whether or not to take responsibility back, and what political desire there is in the county municipalities. I have probably recorded that quite a number of red-green politicians in the county councils have realized that one is unable to take the responsibility that lies there with a maintenance team of between 8 and 9 billion. kr only in my county. Now I heard in the media that the Prime Minister signaled that less money could be spent on major road projects and on transport in general because of the crisis in Ukraine. Will the government fill up and put up enough money for the county councils to take back the pursuit of maintenance regardless of what kind of economic situation you are in now? That's absolutely necessary, and most of the accidents actually happen on highways and bad roads, which are the cause of many accidents. Would you like to make up for your money and make sure that your financial insecurity is not affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e968	We have now announced that we will do a new mapping. That's what I said in my first post, and that's the first starting point for making a targeted effort. Then, of course, I would also like to stress that when the county road is the county road, it is the responsibility of the county municipalities to prioritise within their limits. It is important to add that this government strengthened the county government's economy by 900 million. kr in the current year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e976	"When she was Minister of Oil and Energy, the Council of State said that "the market has an important function and must function without interference." Is this also the view of the Council of State on the Norwegian labour market, or might there be a need for some interference here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e983	I want to thank the representative Kristjánsson for the question, which he probably knows very well how I will answer. The labour market is the most important market we have. Here, companies that are looking for labour, people who are looking for jobs, and the great movements we have seen in recent years show how the labour market reflects the development of the Norwegian economy. In a time of extensive change, it is particularly vital that workers and employers find each other in order to avoid high and persistent costs of increased unemployment. The labour market is fundamentally different from other markets for many reasons – mainly because it is about people. We are therefore setting a number of important frameworks for this market. Regulations of the working environment and working conditions shall protect workers and ensure orderly and orderly working conditions. Income protection schemes shall provide security of income in the event of sickness or loss of employment. Labour market policies should help those who do not have a job to get better opportunities to get to work, for example: through wage subsidies or training. At the same time, income policy and income policy cooperation with the social partners should contribute to the well-functioning formation of wages and salaries. High level of organisation and strong professional organisations with broad coverage of collective bargaining agreements are central to ensuring high employment in good and productive jobs. All this and more make up the Norwegian model. It has given us high productivity and competitive advantage. It has given us high employment, small differences and high trust in society. And not least it has given us great ability to convert when the landscape changes. The government will strengthen the good foundation we have. Anyone who can and wants to work will have the opportunity. We want to work closely with the parties to ensure a serious and organized working life. We want to ensure permanent, entire positions with Norwegian salary and working conditions. We want a strong safety net with welfare services for those who need it. These are just some of the goals we've set ourselves to create an even better Norway, and we're already doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e998	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I am very happy to hear that the government has greater ambition to interfere in the labour market than they have in the power market. I think that makes sense. I still want to drill a little deeper into an aspect of this, because just as the Workers' Party has been a driving force to link Norway to the European power market, the Workers' Party has also been a guarantor, after the east enlargement, of the free flow of labour within the EEA area. No matter what measures changing governments and trade unions have taken to try to sort out Norwegian employment, the reality has been that, after the free flow of labour came into place, Norwegian labour has undergone a ham change and become significantly less secure for workers than it was in the past. This is the question of whether the government and the Council of State have ambitions to do something about this free flow of labour, or whether it is a foundation stone that will be almost existing no matter what happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1007	The EEA Agreement is established in the work of this Government. I believe that the government is doing a lot to secure us against social dumping and to ensure an organized working life. Last night in this Chamber, we discussed the re-introduction of collective redress, and we have sent proposals for tightening up the rules on rental, including, among other things, the introduction of collective redress. a ban on rentals in the construction sector in the Oslo area, with a deadline for consultation on 19 April. The aim is safer working life and to ensure that workers gain more power over their everyday lives. It's better for everyone, because it gives us a society that's more productive, more competitive and where it's invested more in employees' skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1014	Once again, thank you for a good response from the Council of State. I want to commend the government for many good measures against social dumping. After a break of eight years in that work, we've got a government that at least targets itself to do something with those problems. At the same time, there is the question of whether there are no fundamental challenges here that go deeper than the issue of collective law, the rules of hiring and the like, namely that we are linked to a European labour market with free movement and thus have very poor control over how many workers come here at all times and what they are doing. The question is whether the government then considers the rules of the EEA Agreement in this area as a prerequisite for, or almost a sacred part of, its work, or whether it is interested in trying to do something to regulate the free flow as well, so that one does not fight uphill all the way in the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1021	It is hardly a surprise that there is disagreement between the representative of Kristjánsson and the undersigned when it comes to, among other things. Norway’s association with the EEA Agreement. But as for the commitment I have to use a lot of lye to reverse an unwanted development in terms of illegal rental and social dumping, I think we share a lot of ambition. That's why I really hope to cooperate so that we can have a fundamental change in the strength ratio in many jobs, among other things. by reducing the size of rentals, giving more rights to lease-in and securing serious staffing companies — while at the same time doing what we can to combat social dumping. I think that's a fruitful path. It's not black and white. We can do a lot of things to limit the bad effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1036	This question has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Family as appropriate, but the question falls because the questioner is not present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1048	This question also falls because the representative is not present in the Chamber. The president would like to remind representatives to follow up on the programme and be present when they are asked questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1058	‘The economic situation is very critical. The construction industry, the transport industry and fishermen suffer from high fuel costs, the shipbuilding industry has to pay higher steel prices and farmers have unforeseeable framework conditions. The whole business is suffering from the situation we're in right now. Norwegian business is in a deep crisis. Will the government implement concrete and immediate measures and arrangements to enable business to maintain its operation and keep the wheels of society going?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1065	First, I would like to thank the representative for the question. I also feel that the representative has a genuine and strong commitment to Norwegian business, and that naturally makes me happy. We are in a demanding time with significant price increases in many markets, and there are many reasons for this, as we know. This is due, inter alia, to: capacity challenges in global value chains, and not least the extraordinary conditions we now see in the electricity and energy markets. The war in Ukraine has also reinforced these challenges. This is demanding for Norwegian business, which stands in it every day, but it is also a challenge for European and global business. The government is committed to making everyday life easier, both for ordinary people and for ordinary businesses. That's why we're doing a huge simplification job that's going to save our businesses for 11 billion. kr until 2025. In the state budget, we have chosen to protect the car lists and the transport companies for an increase in CO 2 tax. We also made it clear to business through the Coronapandemy: 20 billion. kr in measures only in winter, which helped us to get out of the crisis weeks of very low unemployment and high pressure in the Norwegian economy. It shows that our policy is working. We are in close dialogue with the companies. We are in close dialogue with the social partners. We travel across and across and talk to both trust-elected and farm managers and farm owners all over our beautiful country. And let there be no doubt: as a government, we are going to contribute to everything we can to keep the level of activity in the Norwegian economy up and secure the workplaces. We're concerned with keeping the wheels going, keeping the production going, and getting the products on the market. Our job is at the same time constantly to assess the boundaries between corporate responsibility and the state's responsibility. It's about how we're going to use the community funds in the best possible way. Companies are used to prices rising and falling. It applies to a number of commodity markets: electricity, fuel, currency. Enterprises are also used to adapting to such challenges. We also have a business that has shown good adaptability, which sees opportunities for growth and new, profitable jobs in the green shift. The situation is challenging. We do not exclude new measures, but at the same time I am concerned that we must not paint black. When the representative uses the term ‘crisis’, I believe that it is not adequate for the situation. It goes well in large parts of the Norwegian economy. The activity has increased, there is little available capacity in the Norwegian economy, there is a shortage of labour, and many companies are now concerned about increased interest rates. It will be particularly detrimental to the export companies. There are expectations that this can happen. Therefore, in this situation, we need to think in the long term that we are focusing on sound government use of money that also ensures long-term value creation and competitiveness in business. It's also important, as we've been talking about before, that we now get the pace of new power building, because it will help to dampen the price increase to keep prices down.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1085	Thanks for the answer. I hear what the minister says. He mentioned something about crisis, but what is also challenging for business is that it has large projects that they may have to scale down. Permits are at risk because the contracts entered into are only more expensive and expensive. Feedback I get from operators in the construction industry in my region is that something has to happen quickly, because it's urgent. An actor could tell me that they already had a cost of 1.5 million. kr per month. Then we start talking about crisis. In addition, many companies have weakened the economy after the pandemic hit, and now they are in a new critical situation. What will the Minister do in concrete terms for the construction industry and industry, which is now considering reducing the operation of projects already agreed on because of their loss?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1094	Therefore, it is so important that we pursue an active industrial policy that contributes to competitiveness and change. We have strong targets for both increased exports and increased investment in the mainland, and for creating more attractive, profitable jobs, and not least for us to do so in a way that cuts greenhouse gas emissions. So here's a whole bunch of measures we have to deal with. The question in this case is whether exceptional power support should now be introduced in addition to the measures already taken. During the winter the companies received e.g. indirect support to pay the electricity bill if they had a loss in turnover, by being able to receive 80 pst. compensation. We have also reduced the electricity charge. About 1 billion. the tax reduction benefits businesses. Nor do we exclude further measures to remedy the situation. Now we have to look at what's going on in the next few weeks and months. We had a hope that power prices would go down. If they go down, it'll be easier. If they're persistently high, we have to decide what we're doing then.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1103	There is a need to take action. The business must keep the wheels going – I am very concerned about that. Failures in the transport and construction industries, followed by unemployment, lead to negative consequences for society, not to talk about the local environment around. It is important to put in place a package of measures to prevent this. Most people are tired of waiting and seeing, as government policy has been. Now most people expect business and business action. What will the Council of State actually do for families who are now very concerned about whether they are going to have a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1110	Fewer families will have to worry about this. That's why, throughout the pandemic, we've made a powerful contribution to business through a wide range of crisis measures. This hall has granted tens of billions of dollars in support of business. It also makes things go well in large parts of the business world. It's low unemployment, it's relatively high growth, and we're now at risk of increased inflation. Then, as responsible politicians, we must also look at how best to use our tools and how much public money we can allow ourselves. We do not rule out the possibility of new measures. It will also depend a little on how the power prices develop in the future, and on how the Norwegian economy works. But as of today, I cannot say when there may be further action, except to say that the companies can be absolutely sure that the government is more than ready to set up if the situation would become more precarious, and that would be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1120	‘The clean, stable and reasonable strength of several industrial ventures in Norway, where Sam Eyde and Kristian Birkeland’s establishment of Norsk Hydro in 1905 is one of the best examples of what Norwegian invention and drive combined with the exploitation of one of our main competitive advantages, the hydropower, can create. Current sky-high electricity and fuel prices have removed these competitive advantages. How does the Council of State think this affects current business life and the opportunities for future industrial ventures in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1127	Let it be clear: clean and reasonable renewable energy is a very important competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. It's been for decades, and we're going to make sure that it's also for the next decades. One of the most important measures we can now take is to ensure that power generation is brought up. It will help to dampen the price growth. When more green electrons become available in the Norwegian power grid, prices will fall. Unfortunately, far too little power has been deployed in the last eight years, under the bourgeois government, where the Progress Party has also been put. Now let's do a power collection. The Energy Commission is working on, and we're looking at how we can speed up the pace of new power development and new line construction, so we make sure that there's enough green electrons for our industrial companies. It is important to remember that what we are now seeing is a situation that the whole of Europe is experiencing, so Norwegian industry competes against European competitors who also experience higher prices. That is why the picture is somewhat more nuanced when it comes to the competitive situation. I also think it is important to remember that although green and reasonable energy is one of the most important competitive advantages, I do not think we are going to reduce Norwegian industry to just deal with electricity. The industries I meet – and they are quite many of them – I have visited 200 companies since I joined, in all the counties of the country – compete on much more than power. They compete on technology, they compete on innovation, they compete on the environment, they compete on long-term, they compete on new solutions the world hasn't seen before, they compete on design and strong brands. It's the sum of these things that determine the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. The representative and I have been in several exchanges of words already when it comes to power support for business. That was also the premise for the previous question. I really don't have so much to add but to say again that there are exceptionally high power and energy prices. Business is used to prices going up and down. A lot of companies have also taken into account. Many companies have secured fixed-price agreements. They paid a – disproportionately, some might say – high power prices in 2019 and 2020, when the spot price was very low. Now they get it again through lower fixed prices because they've thought of long-term. The government has also announced that we will make it easier to conclude fixed-price agreements. We want better incentives for that to happen. Then it has to be up to each company which power agreements they draw. The government doesn't want to make any sense of that, but at least we have to make it easier to make such agreements. Then you also have a guarantee if we were to meet similar power situations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1142	I agree with the Minister of Industry that Norway has more to do with than just a reasonable force, there is no doubt about it. But the availability of clean, stable and reasonable power is something our whole country is based on, and it has been for 100 years. This is one of the reasons why powerful industry is doing well in Norway and that it is investing in Norway. Now you have these prices that just go up. I note that the Council of State says that prices are fluctuating, but it will require them to go down as well. Now they've been persistently high for half a year and show no signs of going down. Now the prices are many times the normal. Such a long-standing situation would reduce the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and industry, including entrepreneurs, who are struggling to pay these costs. Does not the Minister for Industry share any of these concerns about the long-term consequences of the historically high electricity and fuel prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1149	Yes. Let there be no doubt that if this situation were to continue, it would have negative consequences for Norwegian competitiveness. That's why we've said from day one that we're willing to use the tools that are needed. We have not said on a principle basis that it will be impossible to introduce further measures. We must not just see the short-term picture – it is too early to see how the situation in Europe is now developing, and what it has to say about Norwegian power prices for months to come. We may also encounter a better time, where power prices are going to fall – let's hope it for the companies. We also have to have the long-term picture clear for us. The best thing we can do in the longer term is really to speed up the pace of developing new renewable energy. In terms of hydropower – upgrading existing hydropower plants we can do without natural interference – it's about offshore wind, it's maybe also about some wind on land, it's about sun, and then we have to speed up the construction of lines, so that the factories get the electrons they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1156	I also support the Minister of Industry that we need to expand more force. The Progress Party has made many proposals. Unfortunately, the government parties have not voted in favour of them, for example. to look at the gentle development of hydropower in sheltered watercourses, but we are also looking at the taxation of hydropower. The thing is, there's a huge amount of power needed to compensate for the large export capacity that is. The government has so far shown no sign or willingness to enter into negotiations with the EU and England to limit and regulate power exports. These prices will continue as long as we don't do anything about the root cause, otherwise we have to expand enormous amounts of power. Europe has also introduced rates such as reduced VAT, etc. Europe has seized. Then the question is, does the government plan to make more efforts that will help now, versus power generation that will only take place in many, many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1163	As I explained, it is, among other things, provided tax reliefs to business of nearly 1 billion. kr in the case of current. The Minister of Finance has also been very clear that further action will be considered if the need is present. It may not be right for Europe as a whole to put in place power support schemes for business. The European Commission has recently opened up the possibility of a new State aid code, in which case part of the increased price of power resulting from the war in Ukraine. There are also some possibilities within existing frameworks, but the big question remains where the boundary goes between corporate responsibility for own risk and accounting, and the liability of taxpayers. In particular, we need to see it in a situation where we now experience increased price pressure, risk of inflation and negative consequences for our export companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1173	‘The government has warned that they will make changes to meet drug addicts with health care, not with punishment. Last year, in the hearing opinion, the Riksadvokat wrote to the Committee on Drug Reform: "Punishment can be difficult to operate with a criminal threat for some, but not all, for the same type of action." In other words, it has to be equal to the law. How has the Council of State intended to distinguish between who is addicted enough to get help and not punishment, and sees the Council of State that this can be difficult both ethically, in principle and legally?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1180	The government wants to implement a comprehensive and coherent prevention and treatment reform for the drug field that improves the quality of treatment and follow-up of people with drug problems. Drug addicts have the right to a decent life and necessary health care, regardless of the drugs they use. In the Hurdal Platform, the government points out that we will ‘investigate and propose necessary changes to the law to ensure that the use and possession of minor user doses for drug addicts meets with good health care and follow-up rather than criminal reactions’. At the same time, however, the government opposes the general decriminalisation of drugs. I would like to stress that it is extremely important for me that this objective is followed up in a professionally sound and practical manner. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is currently well under way to assess the criminal aspects of the reform. It is a demanding work and raises a number of fundamental and practical questions, including the delineation of the concept of ‘drug addict’. In this assessment, a number of different conditions are likely to be significant. I mention that, in different contexts of criminal law, drug addicts and other users are also distinguished today. These include: practices to assess drug addicts differently or less easily in criminal investigations. Russ dependence is also a criterion for the use of the user room system and the conviction of a drug programme with judicial control. Whatever solutions are chosen, legislative changes must ensure that drug addicts receive the help and follow-up they need. It is therefore important to strengthen the existing treatment provision in the drug field.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1193	I agree with the Minister of Justice that there are some dividing lines today, too, but in those cases where you distinguish between who is, for example. In fact, in the courts, drug addicts and thus do not have the same effect of punishment. Does the Minister of Justice agree that a system in which the courts are actually brought to justice, for example, could be challenging? The doctor's office, because they're the ones to decide if you're sick enough to get help instead of getting punishment? It's legally very difficult, and I understand that it's difficult for the Ministry of Justice as well and that it's going to be investigated. But does the Minister of Justice himself have any idea whether it is at all possible to implement such a thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1198	I think it's unwise for me to pre-empt the assessments that are now being made in the department. We are now, as I said, in the process of assessing the criminal aspects of the reform, and it is very central that we find there good solutions, which stand out in principle, ethically and humanely. This is ultimately about the people we want to catch in a better way than today, both to help themselves and to prevent many from ending up in a long life in rushes without getting out of that trail.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1203	Diverging who is being punished is also a reason to believe that part of those who do not receive such an exemption are young and new users. A 2021 twin study shows that contact with the judiciary increases the chances of future criminal behaviour. It also appears that several of today’s police-based measures lack evidence of efficacy, or even are counterproductive. Will the Minister of Justice ensure that this too will be part of the assessment when the government brings its reform in the field of drugs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1210	It is important for the government that we have a comprehensive and coherent prevention and treatment reform and that we are able to look at the different groups that we have to include in different ways. It also applies to young people, and to being able to prevent young people from getting into a russian trail that they do not get out of, and that can destroy lives in that way. That's what the government is very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1215	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-30.ana.ud502e1229	There is no record available. So today's map is handled. Ask for the word before raising a meeting? - The meeting has been cancelled.
