ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e80	The representative Siv Mossleth, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e94	The representative of Turid Kristensen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e99	On behalf of the staggering representatives Tage Pettersen, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, Sandra Bruflot, Kari-Anne Jønnes and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a safer sport and the prevention of body miscarriage and eating disorders in sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e104	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e109	I propose an evaluation of Norway's participation in the war in Syria and Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e114	The representative, Mr Hagerup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e119	On behalf of the representatives of Liv Kari Eskeland, Trond Helleland, Kari-Anne Jønes, Jan Tore Sanner, Svein Harberg and myself, I am delighted to announce that we are now giving gas to get more bus drivers and professional drivers on the roads by making a proposal to assess changes in road teacher training in order to ensure adequate recruitment of traffic teachers for heavy vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e125	The representative of Ingrid Fiskaa will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e130	On behalf of the representatives of Marian Hussein, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on access to vaccines, medicines, medical devices and medical technology in the fight against the covid pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e135	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that case No. 7, Unit, will be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President therefore asks the representatives to be present until the minutes have been finalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e197	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e204	We are now discussing a representative proposal from Red to preserve Ullevål Hospital, to preserve Gaustad Hospital as a psychiatric hospital and to extend Aker Hospital as a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen. That proposal for a representative makes five proposals, and in the vote there are seven proposals. The Committee has carried out written consultations on the matter and 41 hearings have been received from different organisations, actions and individuals. This is not the first time the Stortinget deals with a matter that deals with several of the issues that the representatives address in their proposal for a representative. In five previous representatives’ proposals from 2018 until today, Stortinget has examined a number of proposals related to the development of hospitals in Oslo. Population growth in Oslo has been high in the last 20 years, and forecasts continue to show growth. The number of people over 80 will double over the next 20 years. Today's hospital services in the catchment area of Oslo University Hospital are designed for a much smaller and far healthier population. In addition, parts of the building mass in the OUS are out of date, and the OUS is also responsible for national functions and provides specialised health services to the whole country. It is therefore an overall committee which indicates that large and important investments will have to be made in new hospital buildings in Oslo and that it is necessary to ensure large enough areas and capacity in the specialist healthcare service. The parties will explain their different views and suggestions in this matter, so I'm going to briefly comment on the Right's position. We believe it is important not to wait for the construction of new hospitals in Oslo. The loan framework for new Aker and the new Rikshospitalet was approved by Stortinget in 2020. The Oslo hospitalisation process is of great importance for the overall hospital provision of patients in Oslo and for patients in the metropolitan regions. We are therefore pleased that the Labour Party and the Center Party in government clearly signal that they will implement the changes in the hospital structure in Oslo according to agreed plans. We also believe that it is important to organise the supply of mental health protection with new buildings that meet the requirements of modern treatment and a good working environment for employees. In today's Medisin on 10 January we could read a statement from the head of department Marte Lauvsnes in Hospital Building that describes that very many psychiatry buildings are too old and not well suited for their use. It is important to do something about it, both for the employees in the service and not least for the patients. There is a thorough process underpinning the ill-sickness plan in Oslo. A prerequisite for building a new large emergency hospital on Aker is to gather the specialized functions and move them to Gaustad. Good use of resources by personnel in Oslo is important because it also gives some of the rest of the country better access to health professionals, and the Right believes we have to stand by these plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e219	Health bet, our common health service, is priority number one for this government. Then we must have good hospitals all over the country. There is a great need to invest in public hospitals and to facilitate new constructions and functions – in Oslo and throughout the country. The country’s hospital is therefore top priority for this government. The population of Oslo also needs modern hospitals, with increased capacity for a growing population, as already mentioned. Bad building mass is neither good for employees nor for patients. There are challenges here in Oslo, especially in Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet. I'm glad that Oslo's population will have access to an even better hospital offer. It is important to look ahead and make good progress and implement the changes in the hospital structure in Oslo according to the plans adopted. It's also on the government platform. We're on it. The plans are in the process of being realised. At the Rikshospitalet, the expansion is under way, and Aker is now building a major urban hospital guard under the direction of the Municipality of Oslo. The development of Aker and Gaustad is now under way, for the entire population of Groruddalen will receive local hospital services at Nye Aker Hospital as soon as possible. It's also on the government platform. The new plans also strengthen the preparedness for crisis, and it is important to emphasise, for the disaster response currently on Ullevål related to the preparedness for major events involving patient mass influxes, to be gathered in the Rikshospital. It will provide a wider range of access to medical competence and improved facilities. Two complete emergency receptions are a good response and can also relieve each other in the event of a possible crisis. The new plans provide room for increased capacity and are necessary. The OUS today has 1,550 somatic beds, and it is planned to increase to 1,900 beds when phase 1 is completed in 2030. In the area of mental health and drug treatment, bed count should be increased from today, where there are 359, to 426 beds. As I have said, good access to health care is to be provided throughout the country. Having a good hospital for our common health service is priority number one for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e236	The representative proposal that we are debating today has great complexity and has been part of a number of issues and debates in this Chamber before. Major changes in structures are required for a healthcare service that is undersized and poorly protected for today’s composite course of treatment. The new government is systematically working on these challenges and the aftermath. Norway needs a specialist healthcare service that is dimensioned in order to help people across the country, where one has a wide and decentralised supply before emergency medicine and food supply, while several hospitals are specialised in related treatments. Today's government is clear on the priorities of hospital operations and structures for the next four years through the Hurdal Platform. The centre party has for a number of years pointed to challenges before several of these strategies without being heard in plenary. It is urgent to establish and start the construction process with a new local hospital at Aker Hospital, for example. to cover the entire population of the Grorud Valley. The Central Party and the Workers’ Party’s members of the Health and Welfare Committee express in their comments that this is crucial as the process stands. This milestone has great significance for the others in the hospital structure in Oslo. Another milestone, which is also on this proposal for a representative, concerns the regulation and expansion of the new Rikshospitale. New detailed regulation and regulatory planning processes need to be adopted. The ongoing pre-project must have been completed and finally approved before proceeding with the government's strategy and conversions prior to hospitalisation. This is clearly demonstrated by the Minister of Health and Welfare’s response to the Committee in relation to these matters. We all know the great commitment locally in Oslo, but also nationally, as the planned changes have great effects beyond the capital's borders. There are many professional arguments and experiences that do not match. There is no doubt that this work must have a high priority in the Ministry of Health and Health up to the health agency, and if necessary, the Storing must be involved in its own way if the many milestones are not reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e253	For the Progress Party, it's important that we make policies for people where they are, not policies that just look good on paper, which may seem like several of the parties here are concerned. But in the case of Ullevål Hospital, unfortunately, we do not see any policy that is consistent with what people in Oslo want, or policies that look good on paper. With the exception of – as far as I have been given – there has been a broad consensus in Oslo City Council that you do not want to support what the government is now proposing. The trade unions do not agree – not the trade unions, not the people and not the politicians – across different levels of governance. It's simply not good enough, especially when we're talking about a hospital organization that not only affects hundreds of thousands of people directly, but is an important part of the health service throughout Norway. So we need more facts on the table. That is why, in the Progress Party, we believe that we need to go in for a new investigation into the hospital situation in Oslo, where we are also investigating the possibility of preserving Ullevål. Therefore, the closure of Ullevål Hospital should be postponed until we know more. Today, the Progress Party presents a number of proposals – and its own proposals. They are about that we want a new investigation to be launched and a review of the hospital options for the Oslo region, including the preservation of Ullevål hospitals, that Aker hospitals must be planned and built on the basis that Aker hospitals should become local hospitals for the whole of Groruddalen, and that Gaustad hospitals should be preserved as psychiatric hospitals. Unfortunately, the number in daily places in psychiatry is raging. From 2000 to 2020, the number of places nearly halved. We need more daily places, not fewer, and we believe that Gaustad is and should remain an important contribution in the field of mental health protection. We fear the consequences of laying down several daily places and will reverse this dramatic development. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter, and I would also like to say that we are going to support proposal No. 5, which is quite identical to the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 7th@item: inlistbox It was a bit interesting to hear the previous speeches from the Center Party, because it has to hurt far, far into the soul when we know that Jan Bøhler went from the Workers' Party to the Center Party, where this with the Oslo Hospital was a very important matter – and then the representative from the Center Party is standing here and explaining that it is now the Workers' Party and the Right who govern this policy, and that the Center Party has played a fall in government. It's sad for all those who thought the Center Party was going to be involved and help save Ullevål hospitals. And just before we went into the hall, we met several demonstrators who were concerned about how our health service should be in the future, where Ullevål Hospital is an important part of it. Something else I think is good to bring with me: I heard on the radio on Saturday about this with a pandemic hospital, and that the new definitely isn't that, and you can be quite skeptical about it. But we'll probably come back. I expect that several of my colleagues will speak warmly in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e268	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e273	Fighting can be wise, especially in important matters, which means something to people – which means something to their health, and which means something to their jobs. After conversations with trusted, relatives and patients in Oslo, I know that taking a rematch for Ullevål Hospital, taking a rematch to preserve Gaustad and taking the fight for a full-fledged offer for the people of Groruddalen is an important thing. The story of the coup d'état testifies to the fact that the government parties share my vision. The Hurdal platform says: ‘The time limit for overrun of community is over.’ The Oslo hospitals are primarily for the Oslo population, but also have some national functions. The municipality of Oslo has a significant point of reference on what its residents need for hospital services. Interaction between municipal health services and specialist health services is particularly important. So when a clear majority of Oslo City Council says they want to preserve Ullevål Hospital, I think that local democracy must also be heard by today's government. I am particularly disappointed that the government parties do not choose to listen to their elected party colleagues in Oslo. Democracy is a sloppy plant, and it's undermining when biging and government is totally unjealantly considering overrun Oslo City Council with state regulation. We have to learn lessons from the coronary apathy, which the previous speaker was inside. Espen Rostrup Nakstad said in spring 2020: «Perhaps we must have systems with hospitals with more space, not build heavy towers.» That's exactly what you're planning with the new hospital. You haven't considered infectious diseases, you haven't thought about the functions first, but you've thought of a building mass and a property before the functions. Everyone who has been involved in those processes tells us that in the plans that exist, there is not enough room for all the functions that a modern hospital must have. Many people feel that the investigations and plans for development in Oslo are based on having started at the wrong end, or as the Oslo Medical Association states: ‘The design of the hospitals appears to be adjusted according to what can be placed on the plots and not according to what they should accommodate.’ History shows that rematches are not uncommon at all, and the most important thing is to turn in time, there is no shame in turning around. With that, I address the proposal from SV, Red and Patient Focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e297	Then the representative Marian Hussein mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e302	It is quite right, as has been said, that we have made more proposals to save our hospitals. And let's be clear: we're not going to stop fighting for our hospitals. Because really the case of Ullevål Hospital is a mystery. We know that we need hospital capacity in Oslo, and that it is going to increase in the time to come. We have a hospital that stands on a large, flat site, with good expansion possibilities, where there is actually a good place to build both further and develop in the future. And then we have a smaller area, where there is already a hospital that is defined as a cultural memory, surrounded by population and valuable forest areas. Overpaid directors, with the government's blessing, will move the hospital from the large, open plot to the small one, and then they will sell the large hospital plot to private speculators. Yeah, it's a mystery. I've tried to understand that. I've read all the arguments that exist and that are promoted. The problem is only that there are solved claims and target images without any basis in real calculations and assessments. It's an air lock. We know that the trade unions representing hospital employees – all as one – are opposed to the performance projects. An overall psychiatry community believes that the Aker area is not suitable for mental health treatment, located in the middle of the Sinsen Cross. The Groruddalen is by no means guaranteed to have Aker as a local hospital for all parts of the valley. It is not clear when or if at all Aker Hospital can become a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen, including the districts Stovner and Grorud. It is said to be transferred in stage two, but it is not even planned. An empty promise cannot be given weight to projects in the billion class with heavy societal significance. An overall professional environment at Ullevål Hospital warns against the plans. The acute environment is concerned that patient safety should be compromised when split into two. The midwives are concerned about leaving the profession as a result of the plans. The gold in health care is the people who work there. Putting billions on the table to raise an airy target picture that the entire professional community believes is unrealistic and inappropriate, is not just bold, it's incomprehensible. It is a mystery that this proposal has the support of politicians. Many of those sitting here in the hall today are likely to vote against their own convictions in this matter. They vote against all common sense, against the trade unions and against those who have voted in favour of them. But we can stop the closure of Ullevål Hospital before it's too late. I encourage the representatives of big business to listen to the local and professional communities in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e317	This is not a rematch – this is a fight. I think the government parties should also take that with them. This is a fight that is going to continue, even after the discussion of the matter today. The problem with the huge project at Gaustad is the nature values that are destroyed –the gaustad basin and the heights that are there. It should be remembered that there are no other builders who would be allowed to build with the dimensions that the state is now planning on at Gaustad. There is no reason for the state to have its own rights in Oslo, which others will not be given the opportunity to do because the City Council is opposed. The project runs across the peaceful buildings at Gaustad. The problem is that the project itself is too large in relation to the land available. This is not new knowledge – it seems that this has been a long time since these plans were presented. At the same time, the future needs of hospitals in Oslo are likely to be too low – especially if you now intend to continue selling Ullevål. You can then ask: Where should future enlargements take place? As it was said here, Oslo is against it. The city council has voted against – several times. The broad trade unions are opposed to the solutions that exist, and there is no doubt that the urban antiquities, i.e. the representative of the Riksantikvar in Oslo, could have major problems in seeing how such a large scale of development can be adapted without going across state and national protection values. In the Hurdal platform, it is said – and the Prime Minister repeated this when he presented the Hurdal platform: «The time for overrun of local communities is over.» I heard the representative of the Central Party here, and I have followed the Central Party election campaign in Oslo – against Gaustad. It is clear that there has never been an empty sentence from any government in the past – a sentence that is completely uncontented, because you do not take into account the local authorities and run on it. So this is definitely a fight, and it will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e333	The hospital offer and not least the capacity are important for everyone, including the inhabitants of Oslo and its surroundings. I think it is good that the Council of State has clarified that it will continue to work according to these plans that are now available. An important part of these plans is that the supply of mental health protection is organised with new buildings on Aker which ensure that the requirements for modern treatment and a good working environment for employees are met. Several parts of Oslo today go to Aarhus, which is the hospital where we expect the highest population growth in the recording area. In order to ensure a better capacity for all, it is important that the plans in Oslo are implemented, so that the Oslo districts are transferred back to Oslo. The aim of the reorganization of hospital services in Oslo is a collection of specialised, regional and – I repeat and – national functions. Good and proper use of health professionals in Oslo is important for Oslo, but it is also important for our entire country. It is important that this work now gets under way properly. That is why we do not support the proposals contained in this proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e340	If we are to have real democracy in Norway, people's opinions and local democracy must mean something in matters as important as hospitals. In Alta, the people have said clearly what is right for the patients: hospitals near where people live. That's why the patient focus is represented here on the Stortinget. Ordinary people have not been heard. But Alta is not alone. Hospital struggles are also found elsewhere, like here in our capital, Oslo. In Oslo, employees, citizens, professionals and the majority of Oslo City Council have said that they do not want the new hospital planned. That a city or municipality says no to large government investments is not common, especially in hospital cases. It is also not common for employees to say no to new, beautiful barley. People need to be heard. The Central Party and the Workers' Party have said on various occasions that they will not override local democracy. The model of health enterprises, introduced 20 years ago, has a major democratic deficit. Yes, it may seem that health politicians and the government in some cases have actually abdicated and given health businesses all the power. It was therefore nice that the health minister in his hospital address said that the health company model had to be adjusted, because it is strange when local government and county councils, like here in Oslo, did not receive hospital investments on their table other than as a regulatory matter. The conversion of the hospital structure in Oslo, with the closure and sale of Norway’s largest and most important emergency hospital, was adopted by former Minister of Health Bent Höie. It happened at a business meeting in 2016, after a suspension by the Director of Health South-East. The case was adopted in 2016, without being investigated and against the will of the employees’ representatives in the OYS and without deterring any warnings in the statutory external quality assurance report, which stated that decisions on location were premature and recommended that they consider further alternatives. The plan was also not sent to the hearing and was not adequately addressed either in Oslo City Council or at Stortinget. That's why the protests in Oslo have been going on for six years, and if the plans had been sent to the hearing, the case would most likely have a different outcome. Both professionals, employee representatives and patients believe that splitting Ullevål into two and dividing up important and recognised acute and trauma environments is a bad plan. It is important that Stortinget listens to the planning and building kit in Oslo, which has carried out a thorough process. It's never too late and never wrong to listen to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e353	Oslo needs new hospital buildings. The buildings on Ullevål and Radium Hospital are old and slightly adapted to the requirements of modern treatment and a good working environment. Oslo's population is increasing, and we have to increase capacity. In particular, there is a need to pool the specialised services. It has been more than five years since the adoption of the framework for the further development of new structures in Oslo hospitals. Plans are starting to come true in the Radium Hospital. The Stortinge adopted the loan framework for the New OUS project at Aker and Gaustad in December 2019, and the Municipality of Oslo has started to develop a new bodyguard at Aker. The hospital structure in Oslo has been frequently debated, and there are few projects that have been investigated to the same extent as New Oslo University Hospital. Additional investigations have also been carried out to support the agreed hospital structure. I understand that many have expectations and desires when new hospital buildings are planned. Health South-East is responsible for planning a good specialist health service offer with enough capacity. At the same time, the regional health enterprise is also responsible for ensuring that the best possible use is made of society’s resources. In particular, professionals can become scarce resources and may set limits in the future. Experience from the ongoing pandemic has confirmed that health professionals, especially highly specialised personnel, are a critical and scarce factor in healthcare. It is important to establish a new structure at Oslo University Hospital with a structure that does not involve a disproportionate amount of professionals in the capital. In that case, this would be at the expense of the personnel situation in the rest of the country. The collection of specialised services at Gaustad is therefore important for the development of a sustainable specialist healthcare service. Oslo University Hospital has the worst hospitals in the country, and there is a need for increased capacity in the capital area. The government wants the population of Groruddalen to have the local hospital at Nye Aker Hospital as soon as possible, and we want to implement changes in the hospital structure in Oslo according to agreed plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e373	The councils actually concluded with some of the things I wanted to ask or focus on, and that's the situation at Aarhus – Akershu University Hospital. Three of the metropolitan districts in Oslo go to Aarhus, while we know that Aarhus's area of exposure is probably what has the highest expected population growth in the years to come. This poses challenges for Ahus, but of course it presents challenges for us as a parish priest for Ahus that our hospital takes on a large, demanding and important task on behalf of Oslo. The timetable for the transfer is that all three urban areas – Alna, Grorud and Stovner – will have been transferred by 2030-2031. I know that a government council cannot guarantee, but can the council say that she is working actively and hard to keep this timetable?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e378	I can assure the representative that we are doing that, and therefore it is also important that this project does not have new releases. I share the representative's concern for Ahus. The relocation of all three parts of the Groruddalen at the same time from Aarhus will result in the capacity of Aarhus being not fully exploited. Therefore, the transfer from Aarhus must take place gradually, in line with population growth in the area of uptake, so that resources and money are constantly spent on patient treatment. We're very concerned about that. The whole Grorud valley is going back to Aker. That's what the Hurdal platform says, and we want it to happen as soon as possible. Psychiatric health protection will be concentrated on Aker for all the districts of Groruddalen in 2031, along with the Somatics of Alna Town, and that is the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e383	I thank you for your answer. Oslo is lucky who also has two great ideal hospitals, Lovisenberg and the Diakon home. They are part of the total capacity and total preparedness in Oslo. Right now, they have major challenges because they've taken a load and offloaded both OYS and Ahus with patients in the coronary apathy. But the most important thing for me to ask, since we are now talking about the future, is: will the Council of State ensure that these ideal hospitals are also part of the plans for the New OUS, that they are taken seriously, that they are included, and that their ability to be able to live on more capacity in the years to come for Oslo to be valued?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e388	It is quite right, as the representative Troeen points out, that the ideal hospitals in Oslo are part of the hospital structure. I believe that having the New OUS plans implemented will also facilitate interaction with the ideal actors. They've been all along part of the development plan and targeted for the New OUS. They have the potential to develop their local hospital functions better as we move on with the New OUS. There are today quite a number of hospital buildings in the capital area. It's the two ideals that Troeen mentions, and in addition to the geographic distribution of the OUS today, it provides little appropriate patient pathways, and patients don't get what they deserve. We're very concerned with the continuation that the Diakon home and Lovisenberg are going to have good development opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e393	I have two questions for the Council of State. The first concerns something that is very highlighted in the pandemic issue, namely listening to the professionals – that it is the professional authorities that have to be listened to. They were partly pushed ahead of the government's overall assessments. Is not the Council of State concerned when an overall trade union environment at the hospitals in Oslo is against the gigantic plans of Gaustad and would like to preserve Ullevål, where it is land-reserving and lower buildings? That's my first question. Why do you completely disregard an overall professional environment, both nurses, health professionals and doctors, in this matter? The second question that Ola Elvestuen and several others raised is: Do you feel comfortable in the government overstepping most of the authorities in Oslo, and thus not listening to local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e402	I have been following the debate on the New OUS for many years. There has been great debate and professional disagreement. But I don't share the description that an overall trade union environment is against the plans for the New OUS. Through the various milestones, it has at some point been agreed that it was time to pull the brake and make further investigations. It brought together the professional organisations representing employees and the different professional environments of the various boards, both in the OYS and in Health South-East. But I also feel that there have been different approaches to this in different disciplines. In fact, the question of overruning local authorities is that Oslo City Council joined the target image and plans for the New OUS both in 2016 and 2018. So it's not a description that I share with the representative either.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e409	The feedback from the participation group, according to the consultation input from the Oslo Medical Association, is largely concerned with the lack of space for the necessary functions in the new plans for the OUS. There is too little space for operating rooms, intensive, x-rays, laboratories, research and offices, and they say in their hearing that the plot selections require the construction of the buildings according to the nature of the plots, and not according to the most appropriate location of the establishments in the buildings. So my question to the Council of State is: when we now talk about the model of trust and that trust elected persons should be listened to, and that they should be involved in the design of their work, wouldn't it be the first priority to listen to the trustees in such matters, which will be crucial for their job?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e417	A project of the size and complexity of the New OUS will of course have many different votes, and there has been a conflict about this project for ten years. I always respect professional disunity, but we must also carry out the will of Storting. The loan guarantee and the marshalling land for this project were granted in December 2019, and it is a government task to implement it. That also says the government statement we're going to rule on. With regard to capacity, I would just like to stress that New Oslo University Hospital will have more capacity in 2030, with the plans available, than the hospital has today, also more capacity to deal with serious incidents, and that is something we are concerned about considering the preparedness function and the responsibilities of the OYS for national events.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e424	The trade unions are against, the majority of the people of Oslo are against, and the elected members of the city are against. That's the facts. There is both economic and health risk associated with the plans to shut down Ullevål Hospital. Not least, there is something essential that is missing, namely the regulatory plan. In the past, it was rejected. The Riksantikvar has raised objections to the plans. Now Health South-East has sent a revised proposal. It can also be quickly rejected. In such a situation, the plan can only be forced through by state regulation. This is an important question for the health provision of the population. Therefore, I hope that the Minister of Health will be able to give a clear and clear answer – yes or no – to the question I am going to ask: Is the government going to overrun the professional authorities and local democracy with a state regulatory plan or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e429	We're going to realize the plans for the New OUS with the progress that has been adopted. Now the matter lies with the planning and building kit in Oslo, and we follow that process and make ongoing assessments. But the Hurdal platform is ready, and Storting's will is also very clear. The majority have dealt with this matter many times, and the majority have not changed once. It's a marshall for a minority government, nothing less, and in addition, this is also plans we want to implement in our own government platform. I just want to remind you that the City Council in Oslo joined these plans, both in 2016 and 2018. A project as comprehensive as the Nye Oslo University Hospital, one can have a continuous involvement, but at some point one must also realize the plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e436	It's in the extension of the last, because the Hurdal platform also says that the time for local communities is over. The question then arises: Will the government have respect for the role of Oslo and Oslo City Council as regulatory authorities and follow the processes normally carried out by a regulatory plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e441	As of today, the case lies with the action holder, who is Health South-East, at the planning and building site in Oslo. We will follow it continuously, but our goal is to realize the plans that the Storting has adopted. The loan application for New Oslo University Hospital, with the buildings to travel on Gaustad and Aker, was blessed in December 2019, with the votes of the Left. This is a train that left the station with Left as a conductor. Left blew in the flute and waved with the green flag. It's part of the reality that I hope we can agree on, even though we obviously disagree on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e448	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e455	It is important to have broad consensus between the people, the trade unions and the policy in order to carry out extensive reorganisations and expansions with a strong impact on people's lives. In the case of expanding a new hospital in Gaustad, there has been anything but broad agreement. The trade unions disagree, people go to the torch, and large groups have shown resistance to the new hospital project. It is clear that new and better investigations are needed to find solutions that will embrace them widely. More and more in Oslo's local policy are calling for the expansion and modernisation of today's Ullevål Hospital to strengthen capacity and professional environments. The majority of Oslo city councillors are opposed to plans to build a new major hospital in Gaustad. The Advance Party believes that we need to listen to the citizens and rather go in for a new investigation of the hospital situation in Oslo, where one among other things. investigates the possibility of maintaining Ullevål hospitals. A natural consequence of this is to stop the closure of Ullevål before the Stortinget has been submitted to a new investigation of the hospital situation. It is important that Aker Hospital should act as a local hospital for the Groruddalen. For the inhabitants of the Groruddalen, a robust and good local hospital is important. Therefore, Aker Hospital must also be built on the basis that it will be a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen. The daily places in psychiatry are disappearing. Those in need of mental health protection are seriously affected. We need more daily places in psychiatry – not fewer. Gaustad Hospital is an important contribution to mental health protection, and we can't afford to put the places there. The Advancement Party is clear that we want to preserve Gaustad Hospital as a psychiatric hospital. Laying additional places in psychiatry could have major consequences both for patients and for society as a whole. The Sykehu plans for Oslo are controversial, both in the trade unions, among the city's inhabitants, among the parties on the Stortinget and in Oslo City Council. On such major issues, it would be beneficial for a broad political majority to support the solutions chosen. Now we see that the resistance to a new hospital in Gaustad is increasing. The arguments for expanding and modernising Ullevål hospitals are growing. Aker Hospital needs to become a new local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen, and Gaustad Hospital needs to be preserved as a psychiatric hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e470	The largest and most important investment issue for hospitals in Health South-East is Oslo University Hospital, OUS. What is urgent is to develop Aker Hospital in order to provide a good and safe somatic hospital offer to all parts of the city in Groruddalen. This is also apparent from the Hurdal platform. This case came out quite crooked when the previous health minister, Höie, in 2016 already decided what the result would look like, through his opinions on the so-called target picture of the new hospital – an abstract word of novelty that meant that the Council of State broke its own early-stage supervisor for hospital building, specifying the procedure for how the authorities should proceed in order to get a good plan result. For me, who was the case rapporteur on the matter of building a new hospital in More and Romesdal, where the same thing happened, it is very serious to learn that such a breach is happening again. Now, nearly six years later, a new plan for the development of the OYS has come from Health South-East. I have great confidence that the country’s largest planning authority, the Municipality of Oslo, will deal with this matter well and thoroughly. We should also remember that state investment in new hospital buildings is generally positive to municipal authorities. It's my experience with all the hospital debates here for the last four downtimes. The matter must therefore be in the best hands of the Municipality of Oslo. The Oslo City Council therefore adopted Decision No. 8 December 2021 as follows: On a principle basis, the City Council believes that regulation plans in Oslo should be decided by Oslo City Council. Therefore, the City Council asks the City Council to work against the government to make sure that the government does not oversee the Municipality of Oslo by applying state regulation regarding the expansion of Oslo University Hospital HF at Gaustad, the New Rikshospitalet, and the Aker district. The proposers were the Centre Party, the Workers' Party, the Green Party, SV, Red, Left, the People's Action No to more tolls, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal was adopted against 3 votes – only 3 votes – from the right. So there is an overall local policy strong opinion about the further process of dealing with the case. Now the regulatory process is to be completed in the organs of the municipalities of Oslo, and we must respect that. The planning department of Oslo Municipality is Norway's largest and should be the most sovereignly qualified to see all aspects of the regulatory plan case. After the professional planning authority has made its assessment, Oslo City Council will normally decide on the regulatory plan. I would therefore challenge the other health policy spokespersons in this Chamber to express their opinion, whether they agree with such a normal local democratic treatment of the regulation plan, the matter of the construction of new hospitals for Oslo University Hospitals, i.e. to go against a state regulatory plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e489	The majority of the population of Oslo is opposed. The majority of Oslo City Council is opposed. All the trade unions of the employees of the Oslo Hospitals are opposed. An overall psychiatry community believes that the Aker area, located in the middle of the Sinsen Cross, is unsuitable for the treatment of mental health. The country's leading acute environment states: ‘Decreasing preparedness for disasters for half of Norway’s population. The plans for the New Oslo University Hospital involve a pointless and life-threatening division of professional environments.» But the Council of State Kjerkol knows better, so together with the Right Party and the Center Party she will overrun them all. So the argument is that there's old construction on Ullevål. That's right. New hospital buildings are needed. But what Kjerkol does not say is that there are also 110 000 m2 of good hospital buildings on Ullevål. For an enormous waste to just dispose of this! In addition, there is room for new hospital buildings on Ullevål, unlike the Rikshospitalet, where there is a tight void, where you have to have the hospital in high blocks to accommodate all the functions up there. Then there's the second argument from Kjerkol that there's too much health professionals in Oslo if we have to have today's three hospitals. But there are no estimates that show that the plans for giant hospitals in Gaustad reduce the need for professionals. The specialist volume is controlled by the number of patients you have, not by the number of hospitals. There won't be fewer patients who need treatment in Oslo if you lay down Ullevål hospitals. So to the deadly: On Ullevål they have a complete emergency medical environment under one roof. If something serious should happen, professionals from all disciplines must be available in the same place to save life and health, but this emergency hospital will therefore split Kjerkol, Right and Center parties into two and split the trade environments between two other hospitals. In addition, Grorud and Stovner cannot return to Aker if Ullevål is laid down. Those who today are socking to Ullevål would instead have to be pushed into the Aker hospital, and then the plan to get back the whole Groruddalen would be exposed to far into the blue. It is stated in the Hurdals platform that the time for overrun of local communities is over. If this is done, listening to local communities will later appear to be a solid joke and a parody of what is – really – what it is. Oslo is against - listen to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e508	It is so far in this case that it has been said something wise, but also very unwise. It may well be that someone has stretched out previously stated ambitions a little longer than they want to pursue politics, so I have taken the liberty of making some sincere but fictitious remarks on behalf of parties that today do not want more talk about investigation and alternatives: The members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Centre point to the fact that the Grand elections have now been held and that election vows can no longer be considered valid. These members stress that local self-determination positions apply only in cases where such rights do not challenge the government, be it local hospital structure or regulatory authority. For these members, local self-determination has become a political slogan more suitable in an electoral campaign, but which is after all brutal and irrelevant. These members believe that the economy must go ahead of all other needs, and want to point out that Oslo University Hospital does not have the economy to build a new, large emergency hospital in Aker without at the same time bringing together specialized functions and moving to Gaustad. At the same time, these members believe that the move of Norway’s largest hospital facilities to Gaustad and Sinsen is wise and assures that there will be enough room. These members also believe that building a giant hospital in Gaustad would be a wise use of taxpayers’ money, and these members assure that the hospital will be built on budget and be operational on time. These members further assure that this will not give less to operation, nor go beyond patients. These members think it is wise to split up professional environments. Not least the acute and trauma environment. These members believe that it makes sense to bring together all mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment in blocks at the Sinsen Cross. Finally, these members consider that the investigation into land alternatives and appropriate solutions is unnecessary, all the time the government has already concluded in the case. These Members believe it is natural that the principle of not wanting to, then one should be a good formulation, and clearly show that state regulation is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e523	There's something that says there's no shame in turning around when it comes to mountain weather rules. I think that is also the case in politics. I am very pleased that the Progress Party in the Committee has written a lot of good comments in the vote and that we support all the proposals that are being put forward for voting today. This is also a sign that it's very good to be in government, but it's also sometimes a little difficult, when you lose things. I think the Center Party in particular is going to experience that painfully in the future. It will be exciting to follow the Center Party in the Oslo area after Jan Bøhler, who went banging hard in to preserve Ullevål and against the planes, nevertheless did not get into the Stortinget. But the central party's position has been quite clear. I was also very happy to hear Per Olaf Lundtigen's contributions in support of respecting local democracy. He asked questions about what others thought about any state regulatory plan. On behalf of the Progress Party, I can clarify that we will not accept any state regulatory plan at Gaustad. I would like to ask a clear question again to the Council of State: will the Council of State also confirm that under no circumstances will the government take up or implement a state regulatory plan if the plans in the planning and building kits are not adopted under the treatment of the Municipality of Oslo, but that significant restrictions are being made? Can we have a confirmation that the government is against the state regulatory plan for Gaustad? Marian Hussein spoke of this as a rematch, and that rematches can be reasonable. Ola Elvestuen talked about this not a rematch, but that it's a fight. I think I can confirm that this fight is not over. We're going to have a local election in Oslo next year, and there's nothing to suggest that this hospital case is not going to be relatively central in that election campaign. It is not possible to stop the closure of Ullevål even after the local election results are available next year. The progress party is going to do what it can to keep Ullevål hospitals and bet on further modernisation and expansion in the area where there is enough space, which it is not in Gaustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e535	This year it is actually ten years since the investigation of new hospital capacity began in Oslo. It has returned to the City Council, has been consulted in various formats and forms, and has also been taken into account in the treatment, with further development of those plans. So it has long been clear that we need increased capacity, better preparedness and a forward-looking, modern offer to the entire population of Oslo. We who live in Oslo are not so busy with the location, but of quality. Heavy professional recommendations underpin the proposed changes in hospital capacity in Oslo, and the objective is, of course, the best possible services for the population. For me as an Oslo resident, it's a little weird to hear co-representatives talk about the importance of preserving hospitals rather than talking about quality. A new hospital structure was called an airlock here instead, but the airlock is believing that a new investigation of Ullevål Hospital is possible without delay in expanding Aker Hospital to become the offer for Groruddalen that we all say we want. When we build modern, new hospitals, it is done in view of the inherent capacities of the buildings, the buildings are built with intelligence. Therefore, before Ullevål and Gaustad are clarified by a new investigation, it will not be possible to realize Aker Hospital. Those who say it's just starting to build are wrong. Realising Gaustad is a prerequisite for building Aker hospitals. It is true that there are professional objections, naturally, in such a large project. The fact that there is some popular resistance is not uncommon either, but Oslo's population as a whole is most interested in good health services, not location, nor the political debates that try to coin an uncertainty that is maintained by repeating claims that have been repudiated several times. It was said here that we, who are for a top modern, new hospital in Gaustad, put building mass and property ahead of functions – but that's the opposite. They're the ones who want to preserve over 100-year-old hospital buildings on Ullevål, putting construction ahead of functions and functionality. Listen to the trade unions, it is said, but the investigations and recommendations come from heavy professionals and not influencers on the Internet who have only had a random opinion about something. They have experience in hospital operations and construction. I am very pleased that the Minister of Health has been so clear and clear, both as a health politician in opposition and now as Minister of Health. It is correct, as she says, in terms of the anchoring in Oslo City Council, which joined both the target image and the plans in 2016 and 2018. It is also true that Højre's municipal government group is the only party in Oslo that now stands for a fluffy new and well-explored hospital offer in Oslo, where Aker hospital is realized as quickly as possible. Then it was suggested that many here in the hall will vote against their conscience here today. I'm not one of them, and as a populace from Oslo, I'm happy to be behind a better health offer, which the people deserve. We can't lose another ten years in fights and investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e548	When all the trade unions of those who work in the hospitals we are now talking about agree that these plans are not suitable for patient safety, I think it is quite special that politicians choose to put them aside and argue against them. It is precisely the employees who have made Ullevål hospital a world - class hospital. It's the health professionals, the nurses and the doctors, all those who make it go around, who now warn against these plans. In fact, it is quite serious that the Minister of Health chooses not to listen to them. The Health Minister said earlier today that Storting's will is ready. The reality is that there is no majority in this room. The central party is voting against something they have fought for for many years, because they must vote with the Labour Party. In reality, however, the Labour Party and the Right – which represent a minority in the main hall – support this proposal. Then we know that it has become a declaration of government that another party in addition must support. That is the reality. The representative Lundtägen of the Senterpartie took up a state regulatory plan. I think he had a lot of good points in his post and encouraged health policy spokespersons for other parties to say what they think about the regulation plan. But really, the challenge is – or the joker – the government. The Minister of Health was not able to say clearly that the government will respect local democracy and local professional authorities. The Health Minister could not say: if Oslo says no, if the regulatory plan gets a no again, we will respect that. That is really the call – this is the challenge here: Can the Minister of Health say that they should respect local democracy and local professional authorities? Or is the government, of which the Center Party is part, going to outrun local democracy? That's the main question, and I hope that the Central Party fights for it in government, and that the Minister of Health can clarify it today. Then it is said that in 2016 – one time or another in history – the majority of Oslo City Council was responsible for these plans. It is true that, fortunately, the Labour Party in Oslo has turned around. I hope that the Labour Party will agree centrally with the Labour Party in Oslo. Finally, I would like to stress that this matter concerns our health service. It is fully possible to initiate the development of Aker Hospital. But we have to save Ullevål Hospital in order to have a healthy plan for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e561	Another issue that is important in this debate is the provision of birth and maternity for women in Oslo. The new plans for Ullevål Hospital add up to only heavy food supplies. The ABC department, which today is to be found at Ullevål, is not planned to continue in the plans available. The midwives who work there warn against this. I'm worried about the offer of women in Oslo. What offers should they receive when planning only for heavy feeding machines, feeding departments where women are seen only as a commodity to pass through a larger department and where the professional recommendations are not taken into account. The Health Minister said in his statement that the human resources are scarce and that we have to take care of them. The question that remains is whether we should not then listen to the midwives, who say clearly from the outset. And shouldn't we stop the hoarding from public hospitals, which happens by continuing to add up to departments that don't take care of professional quality? This will help to increase the emergence of private food services and the privatisation of maternity services. In the public domain, if it is not possible to plan for offers that make women feel safe, these private offers will continue to grow. Then we get what is kind of the result of these target-driven processes, where we first plan to shut down departments – instead of looking at the quality of the different departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e568	The representative of Nordby Lunde indicated that it is now ten years since the plans were first presented. That is true, but at the time it was a matter of laying a lid over the Ring 3 to collect the hospital capacities. I think that for us who were part of Oslo City Council that time, it was viewed as so far away from what was likely, that we didn't take it seriously even. Now the project in Gaustad – without a lid, of course – has grown and become a dimension. The paradox with the project is that there is a giant expansion, which is likely to be too small in a future city, over time. It's going to be expensive, it's too big for the plot that's there, and at the same time, it's going to be a question of where the reserve capacity is if you need more and more land than Gaustad in the future. If the answer to that is that Ullevål should also be a reserve area – or should Ullevål be sold? – the question is why we're doing this at all. At Ullevål, we have areas to develop a hospital. It's Ullevål who should have been the starting point for the hospital capacity we need in Oslo. There's space, there's opportunities, and that's what we should have as a starting point. I'm absolutely sure that when we see the entire calculation for the expansion it's now added up to, it would also be more reasonable. Then the Council of State shows that the Left has also been in government without being able to stop this process. That's absolutely right. It's been a fight for the Left, both before we went to government and in government. But there's one thing the previous government didn't do, and that's overrun Oslo as the planning authority. If the government now goes in and does not respect the processes in Oslo, the decisions in Oslo, it is this government that is the first to do so – with the Central Party, with the Workers' Party, and with the wording that it is now the end of overcoming local communities. It's whether it's just empty words or whether it contains a reality, which is crucial, which will prove to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e579	Now several representatives have asked the Council of State to come up here and give an answer to the government's view of overcoming Oslo City Council by adopting a state regulatory plan, across both the majority of the City Council's wishes and not least the majority of the population of Oslo's wishes. So it would have been nice if the council could have come up and answered the question from up to several parties, rather than sitting in the hall and just listening. That's the first one. The second is that Røres representative Nordby Lunde spoke about influencers on the Internet. Four of them are superior to the Emergency Department at Ullevål. They wrote in the Evening Post in September about how the plans are life threatening. There's a couple of things they mentioned that the council never gets into. The first is that the whole condition of a complete regional hospital in Gaustad has been abandoned. Several of the environments must be fragmented, including acute internal medicine, gastrointestinal surgery, orthopaedics and anaesthesia. I would like to ask Kjerkol to answer how breaking up these professional environments within the field of emergency medicine provides a better response to a disaster, to those who had to be affected by it. When we know that the seamless treatment between a number of trade unions is what has saved lives in past disasters and crises that Ullevål Hospital has handled: Can the Council of State answer how a fragmentation of the trade unions would offer a better offer than having them together, as we have at Ullevål today? The second question – or third – is the state level and the second is the fragmentation – is about emptying capacity, reserve capacity for the future. We know that Ullevål has the largest hospital in northern Europe. It is difficult; it is an inner file in the middle of Oslo city with plenty of space for extensions, step by step and planned, for the future. You can build new buildings on Ullevål without disturbing any of today's activity in the other buildings on Ullevål, and then you can dispose of the buildings that have to be disposed of when new buildings are finished. In the Rikshospitalet, there's no room. There will be a construction site outside the Rikshospital for 10 years if these plans are implemented. It's much smaller space. Where will we have the spare capacity for new buildings in the future Oslo, with more people if Ullevål is sold? Why not keep Ullevål and have room to build up to meet any future possible hospital needs? What's Kjerkol's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e588	As a rule, I disagree with President Moxnes, but today I have to say that I agree with everything he said in the first article, and what he said in the last article. So, for once, President Moxne has wise thoughts and good points of view, and we also agree on several proposals. In fact, the Right Party and the Workers' Party should notice, the two governing parties that are primarily concerned with governing – the content of the governance is not so important, it is crucial that it is those who are to govern. It becomes politically interesting that the government that sits here, if it has any plans – or comes up with any plans later – about a state regulatory plan, will only receive support from the Right here in the Chamber, as I interpreted Per Olaf Lundtägen, who was in principle opposed to the idea of a state regulatory plan. And when we know the history of the Center Party in this matter, it would be almost unimaginable that the Center Party should also bow down to a Workers' Party requirement for a state regulatory plan. In fact, I believe that the Central Party will say a clear no, that it is unacceptable. I would like to repeat the question from Moxnes, Elvesuen and Lundtägen to the Council of State: can she make it plain that it is not appropriate for the sitting government in any way to think about overruning Oslo Municipality's treatment of the regulation case at Gaustad? That's the whole principle. In addition, the history, as she and others have said, that yes, the Advance Party, while we were in government, voted for things that we lost in government. The same thing, as far as I can see, Ola Elvestuen has confirmed that concerning the Left. So where you used to support Gaustad from the Progress Party and the Left, it's now gone. The only way to implement what the Council of State is talking about from its plans in Stortinget now is with the support of the Right. Then it will be interesting if Prime Minister Støre can also clarify a little later whether he will be comfortable with the fact that such a big case is only supported by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e597	This is a debate we've had many times in this room. I've had other roles before, but the arguments are the same, we just have to admit that. It's probably a misunderstanding when the representative of Moxnes says we want to split up central national functions. That's the opposite of the plan, that's to bring them together. The national trauma centre shall be provided on Gaustad, and the excellent professionals on Ullevål shall be seated and put in place the details thereof. It's going to be a lift. It will ensure the safety of all residents in Norway. Then we simply disagree with Red. We want a large emergency hospital in Aker with regional functions and full-fledged mental health protection. Psychiatric health protection in the districts to which they are now assigned is currently spread over 40 addresses. It's a bad offer for the patients. New Aker hospitals are getting better. When it comes to the matter of the state plan, I've answered the representative Seher Aydar, I've answered the representative Ola Elvestuen, and I answered the representative Carl I. Hagen from the interlocutory chair in the reply that the government plan is a tool that every government has. The last time the Rikshospital was moved, from Pilestrete to Gaustad, a state plan was used. The government quarter is realized with government plan. Today, the matter of New OUS is at the planning and building site in Oslo, and we will follow developments closely. Our goal is to realize the plans with the progress that has been adopted. It is important because it will affect all other investment projects in Health South-East. It will affect the Drama. It will affect the Inland. It will affect other plans that are important for patients in other parts of South-East geography. The government has no fundamental opposition to the government's plan. It's an opportunity that all governments have, but I also have faith in local planning authority. I myself have been a municipal politician for 16 years and know that it is an authority that manages the municipalities wisely and with the use of planning arguments in the processing. These are the realities of the matter. We want to advance and realize new hospital buildings for the benefit of the patients in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e610	After hearing the Council of State, there is no doubt that a government plan is a tool the government has and can use, but with all the questions from the representatives, I really perceive that what the Council of State says, is that they do not hesitate to use a government plan if they get the chance and have to. I want to say to those who say that those who want to preserve Ullevål and build Aker and still have it the way it is at Gaustad today, are not too modern, new hospitals, that that's not what this is all about. It's about rusting up, we're going to expand, and we're going to change, and that's some of the starting points of the Progress Party. But I want to remind the representatives in the room that we have built up some new hospitals – Østfold Kalnes, Ahus – and that there are concerns about new Drammen hospitals considering how hospitals are going to be, based on what is needed there, with patients in the hallway, who don't get room, etc., because the capacity of hospitals is too low. I believe that there are things you should take over and actually bring with you. It's important. It's interesting to listen to the representative Lundteg. It's a little bit like the spare bench comes in to try to be a lightning conductor for the rest of the center part. Because it's not just the Working Party and the Right that are running over now. It's also the Center Party, which says they're concerned about local democracy, about listening to people, about taking people into account. Then I would like to read from a brochure from the Center Party just before the election: ‘When the two largest parties in the country are willing to gamble with the hospital offer to people in Oslo, then the Center Party protests.’ Today, the Centre Party is playing with and gambling in the same way as they believe that the Workers' Party and the Right have done in this matter, and will continue to do so. I'm not sure, with the capacity and the possibilities at Gaustad, that there will be a good enough hospital to provide all the services they need, with the building mass that you can build there. It is also a concern you have. I think the representative Carl I. Hagen well explained that now the possibilities are there, now we have to be careful. I'm recording that what the council says is that she really doesn't care what the majority of Oslo City Council and the Oslo Municipality come up with, because the government has that tool. The Progress Party believes that on some things we can use state regulation plan, but then you have to be honest and say when you want to, and when you don't want to. This is not what the Progress Party wants. I record that we have a health minister who will and will do so, because you don't care about people in Oslo and all those who are concerned about the future of the Oslo hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e626	I am not going to use my post in any way to prolong this debate, but at some point I actually had to pinch my arm and look around to see what will I put in. Was this the hall of Oslo City Council, or was it the main hall we were part of? With all due respect for the big business representatives who have kept their posts, it's interesting to hear that a focus on Oslo City Board's plural, but denies this hall's plurality. That's actually the situation we're in, and I'm going to realize that maybe it's the real politician in me who's taking over too much. But I just have to answer the representatives of Hoksrud and Elvesuen, who use rather strong words, such as 'fallit' and 'empty words'. The Central Party acknowledges that the underlying government cooperation has a strategy and direction in its hospital policy, and it also supports the Central Party on the Stortinget. One is also some that there are many milestones in this work that the government has to deal with, and that the planning and building kit in Oslo has to deal with. It's also on their table now, and I don't think the Storting should really process it right now. But there are many miles ahead before one has the final answers, and then I think that if the milestones are not reached in the satisfactory way that is on the table now, the Storting should be properly involved. That's what I'm in for, and I think I'm in all the big and complex issues, like this one too.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e639	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e645	Thank you for the reply from the Council of State that this may be the case with a state regulatory plan. In this case, there will be a relatively violent attack on the community in Oslo, and it should be noted that the Council of State is opening up. So probably the answer when it comes to splitting different functions, not quite as well. The functions will be split because there is not enough space for everyone on the site in Gaustad - it is too small. This means that readiness for surgical damage is maintained at Gaustad, while preparedness for gas poisonings and other intra-medical conditions is added to Aker. This means that all patients in need of combined surgical and in-house medical treatment, for example. in the case of a gas explosion, the need for simultaneous treatment in two different hospitals. Today we have it at a hospital. This is the dangerous thing, according to the emergency environment that exists at Ullevål today, and it does not respond to Kjerkol. People in Oslo and Eastfold deserve a proper answer: Why is this more sensible than today’s overall emergency environment on Ullevål?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e652	The representative of Ola Elvestuen has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e657	I take the floor first of all to say what I forgot to say instead, and that is that the left naturally votes for all the minority proposals in the case. It should have been quite clear in the submissions as well. What is crucial is that we have a government that respects the distribution of power that we have, and the responsibility that the municipality has as a regulatory authority. Because it's too big a project on one too small a plot. It's the most expensive project you put up to now, and without a spare area, unless it was to be Ullevål. At the same time, it is an important matter for Oslo also as a regulatory plan, because the plot goes into natural areas and is definitely much larger and with greater volume than anyone else would be allowed in Oslo, and it goes across state protection interests. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e664	Time's up. The representative Seher Aydar has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e671	We're dealing with a case about hospitals in Oslo. I thought that the Center Party, which claims to be occupied with local democracy, didn't have to pinch its arm because we're taking up what the local people think about hospitals in Oslo. Actually, I think there are quite a number of Central Party electors that climb in their arms when they hear that the Central Party of the Stortinget argues for overcoming both local democracy and not least the professional authorities, just as it is being done here. I think there are quite a number of Workers' Party voters who are also clinging to the arm today when they see that the Workers' Party listens more to overpaid directors than to the trade unions. It's a shame, but that fight is definitely not over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e678	This debate is about both hospitals, capacity and preparedness for Oslo and its surroundings. But it's also about specialties and operations that we can't have anywhere else in the country, because we're too few people to get good at it if we don't collect it. That is why this debate has a local dimension, a regional dimension, but not least a national dimension, and I think it has been gone in this debate. There's also another thing that I think has been gone – I heard the council replied, even though I wasn't satisfied with the answer. That was the answer to the question from the representative, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, who asked about the ideal hospitals, Lovisenberg and the Diakon home. It is a hospital that was until long before the state thought the idea of a hospital in this city. In the case of psychiatry, in the case of orthopaedics, and in the case of other types of treatment, hospitals have been at the forefront. They have space, they have competence, they have opportunities, and they've built up and done a lot to modernise their buildings. They are also part of the plan in Health South-East – but are they really, when they are almost on the brink of bankruptcy because they have contributed to the community, paid the bill for the corona treatment, lost income because they have not been able to operate and assist? They have an area, but they have no money. We have to use every opportunity, because one thing is certain: the population growth in Oslo is getting so large that we don't have time to wait, because the capacity of the hospitals is being blown up. Then we have to use the ideal hospitals, modernize the national hospitals and build new ones, allowing technology and knowledge to go to the needs of every citizen in this country. I respect the discussion about land, but I have even more respect for our goal in such a way that people get the best possible treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e685	The representative Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e690	It was Per Olaf Lundtägen who took this up with state control plan, if that could be the case. I am pleased that we have received a response from the Council of State, which was quite clarifying. But I have a question for Per Olaf Lundtägen: If the central party in government accepts state regulation plan, will the central party's big group agree to it? If the answer is yes, will Per Olaf Lundtägen also meet in the Chamber and vote in favour of the State regulatory plan for Gaustad? I'm asking Per Olaf Lundtigen because he's got speaking time left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e695	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e712	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e719	First, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. I assume that those who represent the minority in the case present their proposals and reasons. Let me start by saying that we support the intention of what is in the proposal here. The aim of the Workers' Party-Center Party administration is to equalise dental services with other health services. We don't just aim to do this, it's also been implemented. Already in the state budget for the current year, we can find a number of measures that help to step up a dental care scheme that contributes to a more inclusive and socially equitable dental service. I want to show that it's set at 100 million. SEK to strengthen public dental services in county municipalities, SEK 168 million. NOK to give 50 pst to 21- and 22-year-olds. Discount, 50 million. kr to strengthen the reimbursement scheme for children and young people who receive orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic orthopaedic. kr to the TOO scheme. Because there is no doubt that many people are facing major economic challenges with their dentist. A check at the dentist costs about NOK 1000 today, and dental fillings are between NOK 1000 and NOK 2000 depending on the severity. Furthermore, we can find a price of NOK 5000 to NOK 10000 and a prosthetic price of NOK 20,000. For people who have extraordinary challenges with their teeth, it will result in huge costs that can lead people not to go to the dentist and rather choose not to do so. We know the dangers of this: the problems get bigger, and the teeth are known to be part of the body and affect the rest of the health. The Labour Party and the Centre are concerned that this has to be done and that we have to help. We want to expand our common healthcare, and dental care is part of this, but we are also concerned that it needs to be implemented politically in a way that ensures lasting solutions. That is why we propose to go through a number of different investigations in the State budget, and they are as follows: ‘The government is asking for an investigation into the status of dental services in Norway, including social and geographical differences in use and access, reasons for differences, the relationship between private and public supply, and differences in prices and treatment’. [[...]] Furthermore, ‘set up a sample to make proposals to ensure that dental services are treated in the same way as other healthcare services, including self-employed models’. This will ensure that we investigate a number of the proposals that emerge in this case, both legally and economically, and it is worth noting that no corresponding reviews of the dental field have been carried out since 2007. Many have changed, and there has been little progress in the field under the Right-Leaded Governments. We've started work, and we're going to work to make sure that dental care is equal to the other health services. For us, it's about building our common healthcare service, where people get the help they need, regardless of the wallet or where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e741	In the last decades there have been great advances in Norwegian dental health. Today, Norway has a dental service at the top of the world, and figures from the Central Statistical Office show that almost 80 pst. of the Norwegian population has good dental health. In other words, we in Norway are good at taking care of our dental and oral hygiene and cleaning our teeth. The way we have organized our dental care works well, and the Right has, over eight years in government, helped to make it even better. Since 2013, we have increased the protection systems for people with special needs, and every year, half a million people receive support for dental treatment from the population. We have also strengthened the TOO scheme, which targets torture and assault victims and people with severe dental distress – last in the state budget for 2022, when we increased the scheme by 20 million. kr. In fact, dental treatment is free of charge for one in four residents of Norway, including children and young people, drug addicts and older people who receive home care or live in an institution. The proposal we are discussing today proposes to do dentistry free of charge for everyone, but the proposal says little about what it will cost, and how it will be financed. It's estimated that it'll cost up to 12 billion. to do dentistry free of charge for all in Norway. There's a lot of money to spend on a dental service that's already world-class, in a country that already has good dental arrangements, and there almost 80 pst. the population has good dental health. If that's how I got 12 billion. kr extra in the trap that I could use on the health and care budget, I probably had not prioritised free dental care for everyone first. Then I would give priority to using the funds to give people who are struggling with drugs and mental health, a better offer, to bring down waiting times, which have increased due to the pandemic, so that people come back to work and everyday life faster, or to give a lift to health professionals. For this also becomes a priority issue. Right will work for us to have a high-quality dental care service, and we will strengthen the support systems for those who need it the most. We will continue today's dental service, which works well. But the right is also open to see how we can do better dental care in Norway, and that was also why we, in the government in connection with the paper on health care priorities, said that we would promote our own message to the Norwegian Dental Service. I am very happy to see that the new government has chosen to follow this up further, and I look forward to receiving a separate report on dental services in Norway for treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e756	I got a picture of Karius and Bactus in my head after the previous debate, but we'll try to get a step further. Dental health as a part of and condoned by a strong public health service is an important field of government initiative. This government has seen dental health on the agenda, and together with SV here on Stortinget, an already this winter has come with a clear direction and a clear strategy for how to achieve the government's goal of a gradual extension of the public dentistry service, with a common goal of balancing it with other health services. Already in the current year, a dental service expands and assigns county authorities the task of offering a 50 pst. reduction in the price of treatment to all aged 21 and 22 years. From before, we know well that 19- and 20-year-olds have 25 pst. own-payment. In addition, the multi-disciplinary supply of psychology and dental treatment to people who have suffered torture or assault, and people who are seriously afraid of dental treatment, strengthens by 60 million. kr. This is an offer that calls for a long waiting period for treatment, and the reinforcement allows for a better supply and focus on those parts of the country that have a long waiting period. In the context of the treatment of the State budget, a number of important clarifications have also been provided for further dental work. Among other things, the majority of the Stortinget government has asked the government to start an arrangement to clarify the status of dental care in general in Norway, especially the geographical and social differences you experience today, and differences between private and public dental services. Not least, then, there will be a selection to come back to us with suggestions to ensure a dental service that is balanced with other health services, as well as schemes and models for introducing self-employees. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have already raised dental health as a particularly important area, and the work to smooth out differences in our country has started well. The representative is not asking for a new policy, and many of the proposals that are being put forward are already being clarified and worked on. If I'm allowed to, "Push kiss, you'll get a kiss." It was a song I learned from River and Trond-Viggo in the growing up of the 1980s, to the toothbrush before bedtime. Now we can really kiss our teeth with certain that we have a big deal and a government that takes dental health seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e771	It's time we recognized our teeth as part of our body. Too many people are struggling with dental health, and those who are already struggling to get their ends to meet are hard hit. The Dental Scheme must be strengthened through better reimbursement schemes, where we should give priority to the elderly and vulnerable groups. Many Norwegian pensioners already have a very poor economy, and expensive dental treatment does not help improve the situation. Dental practitioners must be an integral part of the interplay of the health sector, which is necessary for patient safety, joint action against lifestyle diseases and to ensure the economy of patients. In the state budget for 2021, the Progress Party was given the advantage of introducing a free dental test scheme for those receiving home care or living in nursing homes in Agder and in Rome. For many older people, this made an important contribution both to better dental health and to a better private economy. Unfortunately, these are funds that the government parties have now removed. That means that many older people have to go out with large sums, from an already desperate economy, to fund their own dental health. For the Progress Party, the most important thing will be to help those who need it the most. Parents should not get their economy threatened by taking care of their teeth. A basic objective of dental care in Norway must be that all have equal access to dental services, regardless of background, economics, gender or disease. Too many people go to the dentist almost an impossible mental problem. These we have to help. Many odontophobia, torture and assault spaces depend entirely on a good TOO scheme to improve their dental situation. The organised dental care provided by this scheme allows these patients to have their own follow-up to the challenges they face. Several of these patients have major dental problems, which pose a risk to the development of serious infections. Many have mental problems and struggle with extravagance and guilt. In addition, when there is enormous waiting time for an evaluation interview on the TOO teams, this could lead to a serious deterioration of already existing mental problems. The waiting times are up to four years, which means that many people who are victims of abuse or torture, or who have odontophobia, will not receive absolutely necessary dental care. It is unacceptable, whether the psychological treatment and dental treatment of interdisciplinary treatment teams are free of charge. It doesn't mean that the help is free when it waits for years. Therefore, the planned dental care for this group needs to be considerably strengthened over the years to come. Furthermore, the Advance Party points out that dental care needs to be strengthened through better reimbursement schemes and that dentists must be an integral part of the interplay of the health sector. It is necessary both in the context of patient safety, joint action against lifestyle diseases and in order to safeguard the financial rights of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e784	For too many years, the dental health of the North has been the most obvious marker in the great class divisions of our society. It should not cost more to go to the dentist than to go to the doctor, and it is time to get something done with the dental care of the Nordics. There is a need to strengthen the welfare of a dental reform to ensure that more people can receive public treatment and that dental care becomes part of public health. I am pleased that the SV’s large-scale group in the course of the year’s budget was given the money to start this work. At the same time, we still have a long way to go to realize a fully-fledged dental reform. It is important to ensure that older people and others with home-based care and in-situ care are actually granted their rights. The fact that dental health is the great class distinction is also shown in dental regulations for children. A report from the SSB in 2019 showed that children from families with lower income were less likely to receive dental regulation than children from families with good income. The entry from the representative of the Workers' Party must be said to be bold and perhaps at the limit of a little shameless, in order to present SV's victories in the budgetary process as government policy, I find it strange. I understand that the representative needs to brag by the government, but honesty is the longest, and the most honest one had been that the representative from the Workers' Party mentioned SV in his post. I am pleased with the penetrations that SV got, but it also shows that the government needs to pushes from Stortinget to realize a fully-fledged dental reform. With that, I'll take up SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e795	The representative Marian Hussein has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e800	If you break your leg, you should have access to health care, no matter how thick your wallet is, or how many zeros there are behind the sum of your savings account, if at all you have one. What's nice about our health care system is that it doesn't matter what's wrong with you, you get help. But then there's one exception: the teeth. You can see a difference in the economy of people by looking at their teeth. The unemployed, disabled and students are above the national average among those who say they have an unmet need for dental treatment. There are invisible cows in today's dental system with people who never get the treatment they need because it costs money. When people have to drop the dental visit or take up consumption loans to pay the bill, it shows that we have a big hole in the welfare state, and that's this hole Red will close. Tooth problems can have a major impact on the general state of health. Infections in the gums can cause cardiovascular diseases, which cost many years of life. The state of health of the mouth and the ability to chew have an impact on general health, nutrition, social life and quality of life. In other words, the teeth are part of our body and part of our health, and they also have to be treated like that. In the summer, Ipsos made a poll on the order from Red, and one of the questions was whether people agree or disagree that the richest in society should pay more taxes to finance a public dental service for everyone. Almost 70 pst. replied that they fully or partially agreed. Of those who said they would vote in the Labour Party or the Center Party, it was 86 pst. who agreed. And just for information, everyone means everyone, including people who are 30 or 50 or in a completely different age group. If we're going to get down the differences and do what's needed to ensure a dental offer to everyone, the government can't hesitate on the Right Tax Cut to the nation's richest. Then we don't get the dental reform that we actually need. In practice, when teeth are not treated as part of the body, it is suggested that the differences in society are reflected in the health of the population. When people have to pay several thousand to drill, the consequence is that people who have poor advice cannot meet their health needs. Fortunately, there is a new government, which says it aims to equalise dental care with other health services. It's important, but in practice, the government does too much, too little. The time when we thought the teeth were a private matter must be over. A dental reform can be a major welfare reform for equal health care for all of us today. I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e819	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e824	Good dental health is important to all of us. It matters to our somatic health, to our mental health, to our social life, and not least that we get the food we need at all times. It goes all over this if you don't have good dental health. I believe that the most important thing we do now is to build stone on stone in terms of dental health and its implementation in the Norwegian health care system, and that we first prioritise those who need it the most. An example is the TOO system, where those who need it most are given the most priority. I agree that the waiting lists that are not good for patients must therefore be given even more priority. At the same time, I am pleased that the previous government promoted a big message about priority – sometimes difficult for us politicians – in the primary health service, where it was also announced that a separate announcement should be made about the dental service for the Stortinget. I am pleased that the current government is behind this and will deliver a message. I am pleased with the message about dental care coming, so that we can jointly prioritise within that message. Pending this, the Christian People's Party will not vote for the proposals today, but we are looking forward to that announcement coming to Stortinget, with the whole of Norwegian dental service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e836	It's said a lot about the importance of dental health to us, so I'm not going to give a long speech or a seminar on it. What we know is that everything is related to everything, including in our body, and we notice that when we have toothache. Poor dental hygiene and bacterial build-up in the mouth lead to diseases in teeth and gums, and it has been shown that association between dental diseases and poor dental health leads to diabetes as well as cardiovascular diseases, as well as dementia. So it's the way that a policy is going to be consistent, it's going to be related. Patient focus supports Red’s proposal, and this is also to be considered as a explanation of vote, as it comes out slightly differently in the setting that exists. This means that the patient’s focus believes that the Red’s proposal is good and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e845	Tannhelse is on the political agenda. That's what we've fixed on the Hurdal platform. The aim is a gradual expansion of the public dental service with the aim of equalising it with other health services. The first step was through the budgetary agreement with the Socialist Left in November 2021. The County Dental Service was strengthened in 2022 by an increase in free income. We have also strengthened the framework of county councils so that they can provide dental services to 21 and 22-year-olds with 50 p.m. self-payment. The interdisciplinary psychological and dental treatment of people who have suffered torture or assault and those who are seriously afraid of dental treatment is increased by 60 million. kr. The public support for dental regulation has also been increased by 50 million. NOK 2022, and the tariffs increased from the turn of the year. The government will follow up the decision of the Storting to set up a sample to make proposals to ensure that dental services are treated in the same way as other healthcare services, including self-participation models. I would also like to follow up the request decision on an investigation into the status of dental services in Norway, among others. social and geographical differences in use and access, reasons for differences, the relationship between private and public supply, and differences in prices and treatment. It becomes an important part of the knowledge base for the work of the sample. This shows that the government has taken several steps towards getting dental health into political processes. We will also follow up the Hurdal Platform's objectives of better prevention, expand public responsibility for young people over 18 years of age, strengthen social welfare and ensure that those entitled to free public dental care receive a better and better offer. The priority message presented last year is now being processed in Stortinget. The government has chosen to support this message, including the proposals to provide a separate message on dental services. The new sample will naturally take time for the investigation, and I will already inform you that the grossing-up message will be submitted only after the sample has delivered its setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e858	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e863	For many years the Labour Party has promised free dental service in Norway, but has not been able to deliver on it. The Hurdal platform also states, as the Council of State said in its statement, that a gradual expansion of the public dental service will aim to equalise it with other health services. If dental services are to be provided free of charge for everyone in Norway, it will cost up to 12 billion. kr. I think the Council of State agrees with me that there is a lot of money, especially in a country where 80 pst. of the population have quite good dental health, where we have good arrangements for those who need it the most, and where we have a well-organized dental service. My question to the Council of State will then be: if you want to expand your dental care, which will cost 12 billion dollars. How, then, will the Council of State give priority to other health care tasks today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e870	I hear the Right won't spend 12 billion. kr, it has been clearly stated by the representative in his statement and now repeats it in the change of line. I also hear that the Right wants to be with and discuss how to gradually make the Public Dental Service more and more accessible. There's an interesting discussion in the continuation. The government has already begun a gradual expansion of public dentistry, it has been reinforced by the budgetary agreement with the Socialist Left Party for this year's budget, and we have given priority to those groups that need the most public dental care and, unfortunately, not to the same extent as many others who have access to a good private offer, priority or have the opportunity to prioritize good dental treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e875	It is quite right that the Right will be involved in discussing dental care, but our starting point is that we have a very good dental service in Norway today. Our starting point is also that if we're to strengthen dental care, we have to do it for those people who need it the most, for example. The TOO system, the screening system, children and young people and other groups that require public intervention — not everything for everyone. What I'm registering is that the Council of State does not answer my question about how to prioritize with respect to the 12 billion. kr which this will cost. The Council of State does not reject my claim that it will cost 12 billion. kr. I think maybe a little because of that is that one does not have a good enough response to how one should give priority to different health care tasks, for example. mental health or the reduction of waiting times. I'll try again and ask the Council of State, where will the Council of State and the Government find the 12 billion. Do you really want to delete this item? And is the reason why the Workers' Party hasn't managed to do this before, that you haven't been able to find that money?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e884	12 B.C.E. kr is a number right has to own itself. I'm recording that the Right says that 12 billion. kr they do not want to use on dental health. And that it should be the subject of a priority, I also leave to the Right to explain. I would like to repeat my answer. We want a gradual expansion of public dentistry with the aim of equalising it with other health services. Then it will be a priority in each state budget. We will also follow up on what lies in the request decisions in Stortinget from before, in particular what is about investigating, among other things. social and geographical differences in the use and availability of dental services, reasons for differences and also the relationship between private and public supply and differences in prices and treatment. The latter was something right in its time in government was very reluctant to do. We want to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e891	It was probably the speeches of the previous speaker that made me aware that it may sometimes be more important to make visible how a government that is supported by SV finds money for dental health – and not when the right government received support from the Progress Party here on Stortinget, and they found money to give tax relief to the richest and took both glasses and other support, other reimbursement schemes in popular security from weaker groups. So my question to the Council of State is, when can 21-year-olds and 22-year-olds expect to get 50 pst. discount on dental treatment? Can I ask all 21-year-olds in Oslo to contact the County Health Service?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e898	We have strengthened the public dental service for which the county councils are currently responsible, both through increased free revenues and a strengthening in which we point to this by giving priority to 21 and 22 year-olds. I come from a county that is now merged, the Nord-Trøndelag, where, on one's own keel, the priority was even higher to give free dental treatment. Our wish is that there should be equivalent access to dental care, and that it should also be the same payment system, but we have to do this gradually. Then I think we got out of it well in the negotiations this year, where SV was clear on their priorities, and Norwegian citizens benefited by strengthening our public dental service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e907	A lot of people don't go to a dentist just because they can't afford it. There are quite a number of people sitting outside a dental office with a dental bill they know they can't pay. They must live with pain and suffering. So it's pretty far from the goal that the government has set to equate dental services with other health services, and what the government actually does, which is half the price of 19 to 21 year olds. Does the Council of State think it's enough to actually target, or can we continue to make sure that everyone can go to the dentist and get the treatment they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e914	The Hurdal Platform states that we should gradually expand the public dental service, with the aim of making it more equal to other health services. Then it's red that's impatient and wants a reform within four years. I have to say that I am unsure whether it is practicable, and whether it is possible to finance it. You'll have to look into Red's alternative state budgets to find out. But my task is to implement the Hurdal platform, and there we have also started in this year's budget, where we were only given the opportunity to submit an additional letter. We also negotiated with SV, which had a clear priority in the direction. So that's what we're working for: a gradual expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e920	Red sets over 3 billion. For dental reform in its alternative budgets. It's actually completely possible to fund a dental reform if the government wants it. Then I hear the government says that what we're presenting is not realistic to the government. Then the question is, what is realistic? What way is that government going to follow to actually achieve its own goal of treating teeth as part of the body? What is the government's realistic path to that goal within their own period of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e927	Now we're going to follow up two decisions from Stortinget. One is about putting down a sample to look at several elements, and the other is a proposal contained in the priority message currently being addressed by the Stortinge, about a separate hoarding message for the dental field. We're going to follow up both of the two political processes, and they mean I'm pointing in one direction. I was more questionable as to whether it is practicable to carry out a dental reform in the format described by Red. And then I guess I'm even more questioning about whether it's possible to get a majority of Red's alternative budget, but it's another bowl.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e934	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e941	In 1996, my mother had breast cancer with spread to the lymph nodes. To stow the cancer and save her life, she was sent on radiation. Then she flew every day from Stavanger to Haukeland Hospital in Bergen to be radiant. On one of the trips on her way home from Bergen she discovered to her great dismay that when she had got a bowl on board the plane from Braathen's SAFE, as it was hot at the time, the one tooth sat in the ball again. It was the first tooth that smoke, but the next week the smoke teeth after the tooth after the tooth until she finally had three teeth left in her mouth. Despite the fact that my mother had been exposed to radiation damage in the health care system, although she had cancer, the propensities for getting new teeth at the time were tens of thousands of dollars. Her story is not unique. If you go to a website like www.spleis.no, you will find hundreds of stories with people who all of them, because of other serious diseases, because of childhood abuse, mental illness, disorders, cancer, or, for that matter, brain stroke, have to pay large sums to dental health, because the dental problems they get. Then it's a little strange to hear more representatives from this pulpit say that dental health is primarily a question of whether you're good at brushing your teeth, like the representative Svardal Bøe from the Right, among other things. was in the room. My mother was not bad at brushing her teeth – she is not in and of herself today either – but it helps very little to use fluorine and dental floss when you lose all your teeth because you have cancer and become damaged with radiation. As Ojala's representative was in, the relationship between dental health and all other health in the body is very close. Serious dental problems often come with other diseases, and serious dental problems continue to cause other serious diseases, which the Norwegian health system also has to take the bill to treat. This is so weird. My mother has cost Norwegian taxpayers a tremendous amount of money, my mother has honestly been a loss project for the state of Norway from the day she got sick, but never has anyone come up with the idea that my mother should have paid for half of her radiation cure, for half her cell poison cure, or for half of the treatment she receives for cancer in any other way. When it came to the teeth, the propensities were large and tall. Dental health has become a small part of the US in the Norwegian health system. Therefore, it is essential for Red to make teeth a part of the body. It's quite right, as many people have said, that there is also a question of money, but if the representative Svardal Bøe from the Right wants to get 12 billion. kr in the prisoner to solve this problem, we in Red can contribute as much as 50 billion. kr caught to the representative of the Svardal Bøe if he is willing to support our proposals to increase the taxes to those with large assets, large incomes, high inheritances, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e956	I don't know how much I'm going to be annoyed by the representative from Red. Those are often very big words. If he had listened to the post that I made, the very starting point for the Right was that we want to join and strengthen the dental service for those who need it the most, and the starting point for it is that we have quite good dental health in Norway, when 80 pst. has good dental health. We in the government have strengthened the shielding systems. We have strengthened the TOO system for those who experience, among others. Anxiety for going to a dentist, and it is already today that one in four people in Norway have free dental health through very good arrangements, just to those who need it the most. I am very aware that Red has a lot of money to spend. One shall treasure whole business leaders as well as others who create values. I think it's a policy that works badly, because if we don't create jobs, we don't create business, and we don't get money to fund good welfare services in our country either. The right shall be involved in and strengthen the dental service. That is why we have said that we should be involved in the big message that you are about to start from the government. When we're going to strengthen dental care, we're going to do it based on those who actually need dental care the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e965	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e982	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e989	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for focusing on an important issue and thanking the Committee for a good work on the proposal for a representative. The case is about ensuring a good hospital supply for patients in mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment. In this proposal, a specific focus has been on the location of specialised hospitals for psychiatric treatment and co-location with somatic hospitals. Over several decades, it has been a gradual restructuring of mental health services. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1998–2008 provided additional impetus for these developments. The reduction of large daily institutions is a consequence of this restructuring to a more outpatient, decentralised and local/municipal service provision. A change in social perception of mental disorders leads to a change in treatment methods. The Committee shares the commitment of the representatives of good care in the field of mental health protection and the provision of up-to-date knowledge and good plans of good quality and a matching capacity. The Committee believes that mental health is as important as physical health, and that for people with mental health disorders it is absolutely crucial to get help where they are. The vision of the various parties will come to light during the debate. The Committee has carried out written hearings and received several recordings from the Association of Nurses, the Association of Psychologists, Actis, the Association of Representatives, the Association of Doctors at the OUS, the Redd Rikshospitalet, the Friends of the Rikshospitalet, the Independent Group of Hospital Actionists in Oslo and the People of Aarhus. The Council of State has delivered its opinion on behalf of the Centre Party and the Labour Party on the proposals in letters to the Committee of 23 November 2021. The Council of State points out that action in the Hurdal Platform will capture the intention of the proposal for a representative. Furthermore, the Council of State points out that many people in need of mental health services will also need services before somatic health. In order to provide a whole range of services, it will be important to have good practices for interaction between somatic departments, mental health protection and the TSB. In addition, the Council of State points out that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss an overarching plan for mental health services when the government submits it to notify the escalation plan. The Hurdal Platform notes that the government will provide funding to facilitate coherent patient courses and to increase patient cooperation between the municipal health services and the specialist services, provide more resources to hospitals through increased basic funding and address changes in the management of hospitals and the health services model. More resources have already been given and some of the work is running. The government will return to the Storting in its own way with regard to the follow-up to these measures. We look forward to a good debate in the main hall when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1008	Psychiatric health is a priority for this government. Making sure that you have buildings that are both health-promoting and can provide good quality to your patients is incredibly important. This government is clear that we should have an offer in the field of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment that is characterised by both increased capacity and enhanced quality. The National Audit Office has pointed out that there are major deficiencies in both these areas, both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. That's something we're taking very seriously. Daily services shall be adequate compared to the need. It's vital for some patients, but it's also necessary for society. But it's about finding the right balance. It is also true that for some people, too long hospital stays may be the wrong medicine in the length. Patients are different and should be offered and treated thereafter. We must agree that more outpatient activity has also been a desired development, and it is related to several factors that have also been developments in other countries with which we can compare. An open and user-friendly service is positive, together with an increased focus on municipal action, outreach and closer cooperation with other areas of society. There this government has already shown the ability to bet. Things have to work in good interaction, and we have a very important job ahead of us to make sure that the services for our very most vulnerable patients get better. We know that there are many patients in mental health protection and drug abuse who also have major somatic health problems and an expected shorter life expectancy. Then it's positive to think about more co-location where you get integrated services. There's something you can take more into account when you're planning new buildings. In the Hurdal platform, we are clear that we are going to make a stepping-up plan for mental health, with ear-marked means. That work is already in progress. We need to step up capacity, and we need to ensure that hospitals and businesses across the country are able to provide the services that patients need. We've already shown the ability to bet on that, and it's going to be more. I look forward to the further cooperation in this committee when we are going to put in place a stepping-up plan for mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1023	Good services for mentally ill and those addicted to drugs are important. It's important to fight for, it's important to work for, and I think it's all cross-political through this committee. Over time, there has been a shift from daily places to more outlying, open and user-friendly healthcare services, and it is as soon as we have gained new knowledge, more knowledge of what mental disorders are, and how they should be treated. During periods, daily stays are correct and important, but we also know that after long hospital stays it is more difficult to get back to a normal everyday life. When old psychiatry buildings are replaced with new premises with both somatic services and mental health protection in hospitals, it becomes easier to provide patients with comprehensive services. In addition, there will be less stigma associated with hospitalization than with a psychiatric institution. Especially within psychiatry there are many old and not suitable buildings, and co-location in new, modern buildings will be better for both patients and employees. Today's Medisin had an article about this 10 January, that we have many old, out-of-date buildings in the field of mental health protection. I am very pleased that my own hospital, Akershu University Hospital, is finally building a psychiatry building to collect it from many locations. The shift from daily places to more outpatient, open-ended services has been important for patients, considering both drug use and mental disorders. It's about knowing more about the way we treat mental disorders. The right considers that we still need 24 hours because it will be an important and correct part of the treatment for some patients during periods — even though there has been cross-political agreement on a shift away from the daytime shifts to be the main rule. Prescriptions in mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment show that we generally have enough daily places today, but that there are differences between regions, and of course they need to be corrected. There may also be differences in offers in each region, and this also needs to be corrected. It is important for the right to work for good services for patients who need mental health care or multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. Good services also mean that patients must have real participation and freedom of choice. Therefore, we are very disappointed that this government has warned that they will scrape the reform of free treatment options, which actually gives many of these patients real freedom of choice to choose where they want their treatment. That's often good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1036	For the Progress Party, commitment to good mental health and good and strong care has been high on the priority list for many years. Only last year we got increased by several hundred million kroner through negotiations with the outgoing government. There should therefore be no doubt that the Progress Party believes that the mental health of the North should be given priority, and that we need to get enough funding in place. Although the Progress Party has been involved in strengthening its commitment to mental health, we are still far from being in target. The provision of institutions for mentally ill people has been greatly reduced in the last 20 years. This is what the sickest people pay the price for. They get neither the help nor the security they deserve, and they end up as swing door spacers without getting treatment that makes them healthy. We have therefore spent a lot of money on several daily places in public and private health in our alternative state budget, 900 million. kr, and that a separate grant scheme is in place to counteract the long-term impact of pandemics on health, mental health and alcohol. This is important. The free choice of treatment, which the government and the government have now been out saying you want to scrape, means that people have the opportunity to participate and influence what they are going to get, and be sure that you get the best offer, which just helps people get back, either out of the rush or to get a better daily life. That's what this is about. The Progress Party also believes that the intention of the proposal is very good, because it is important to ensure that patients receive a proper treatment offer. But we shouldn't necessarily try out anything new until we've put in place an adequate offer of what we know actually works, namely several daily places. Capacity must be built up before new solutions are sought. It would be a disaster if you continue to put down sorely needed places in psychiatry without knowing if you get a better alternative through co-location. That's where we very much agree with a lot of what the proposers come with, and we think you have to look at the building mass that's there. But we're a little worried if you stop in some areas where it's decided that it should be expanded, and where part of the funding lies through buildings that are already there today. That's why we're a little bit critical of just jumping at everything that's lying here. But we definitely see that you have to have a proper review, and we assume that you do, too, to make sure you don't dispose of the building mass that you should actually use. Then I would like to show that the Progress Party has promoted its own proposal, Representative proposal 19 S for 2021-2022, on better meeting society's need for the protection and treatment of seriously ill patients, to which we are going to come back, where we will also have several of the important things relating to this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1051	The representative may also comment on proposals in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1056	Very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1061	Fine! The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1066	Two key figures in this debate are that in 1990 the number of daily places for adults in mental health protection was 7,745 places, and 20 years later the number is more than halved, to 3,200 places. It has been part of a wild and desirable development: normalisation of mental disorders, reduction of large daily institutions, co-location and integration with somatic practices, and, most importantly, bets on the first line, outpatient treatment, on DPSs, on outpatient teams and services in municipalities. We're very excited about that in SV. But the direction has also been deficient, because it is important to ask the basic questions: Has it gone too far? Have we been much better at building down than at building up? Are the decentralised and local services close to meeting needs? We've had contingency plans for mental health, and there's a formidable job done by skilled professionals. But the first line of psychiatry is too weakly dimensioned and the resources are insufficient. Another figure that can illustrate this is that 32 000 children and young adults who were referred to treatment for mental health problems in 2020 were rejected by the specialist healthcare service — 25 pst. of the references. There is a strong need for help asking for qualified help but getting no from the big community. It causes many suffering for the directly affected and their families. But it can also start as easy suffering and develop into more severe suffering — one of the results of increased pressures in daily places. Inadequate dimensioning of relief services and inadequate staffing and skills is compensated by more coerciveness in institutions and more police. In the last four years, the Oslo Police have had 18 000 missions dealing with mental health. Recently, we've had a lot of focus on mental health. Let's follow it up by not building up mental health. For SV trust reform is not a hollow concept that we can only use in party speeches. We show confidence in professionals, trusted people and relatives by listening to their warnings. That's why we're going to fight to strengthen mental health protection, not build down and sell. With that, I address our proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1077	Then the representative Marian Hussein mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1083	People wait too long, because many are rejected, the service offer has great regional and municipal variations, and where governments have asked for growth, they have got the opposite. It's the state of mental health services. Last year, health businesses were severely criticised by the crushing report of the National Audit Office on the lack of prioritisation of mental health protection. Health enterprises do not have the ability to prioritise mental health. They work according to business-economy models and have more to do to get DRG points in the somatic environment than to expand mental health services. The land occupied by the institutions in the field of mental health, on the other hand, sees health businesses as having a high level of benefits. It is a concern that health professionals, after reducing beds in mental health and co-location with somatic and mental health protection, are not driven by professional assessments and consideration for patients, but, among other things, by the need to improve their health. for economic reasons. Wholehearted services are for us all. However, as the trade unions point out, co-location is not a necessity for professional interaction. In mental health, environmental therapy is often a major part of the treatment. It requires recreational areas and other types of premises than what we see in the large hospital buildings that are now being built. It must be properly investigated before further co-location is carried out. Selling these plots is not reversible. There must be good professional judgement on the basis of these decisions. These are the values of the community. The population must be confident that valuable and irreplaceable land is not sold for short-term economic gain. The report of the National Audit Service tells us that our mental health services are characterized by the fact that economics and savings have trodden professional concerns and patient rights over a long period of time. It has to stop now. We need a stop in the sale of hospital property, we need to investigate the need for long-term places in mental health, and we need a proper investigation of the benefits and disadvantages of co-location. In this case, it's really quite simple: it's asking for more knowledge before doing something that's hard to reverse.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1098	We can't change, co-locate and build up such an important health service for patients in psychiatry and drug use without a big message, without a professional investigation into how this would go beyond the offer of all patients in the field of mental health protection and drug abuse, and without knowing the consequences of it. That is why the Green Party, together with the patient focus today, proposes four things. Firstly, we suggest that we immediately stop the sale of hospital property that is currently used for mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. Secondly, we are proposing to set up a public sample to investigate the co-location that has put us in this situation, with the sale of hospital property and the closure of places, is the best solution for mental health protection and for drug abusers. Thirdly, we are proposing to explore the need for long-term places in the field of mental health protection, and finally we are proposing to evaluate the funding model for these hospital and hospital facilities, a model that makes it attractive for businesses to sell the land currently used for mental health protection, to finance new hospital buildings. Our goal is well enough space in mental health protection and in the interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment and a good hospital offer for those who need this offer. If the co-location doesn't take us there, then we have to find a better solution. That is why we need more knowledge, and that is what the Greens are proposing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1107	Good mental health is not in buildings, but modern buildings can provide good mental health. Good knowledge, good capacity and good and proper competence can help people. Recognising that mental health is similar to somatic health is like comparing teeth with the body. Mental health is linked to somatic health. But unfortunately, it's not always that those with a mental challenge experience being recognized in the same way as those with somatic disorders. Blue light medicine has often been given priority, and mental health has often been given the highest priority. Mimir Kristjánsson told about his mother who lost her teeth after radiation treatment. My mother was mentally ill. Her alternative was an old hospital far from all colors. There was stigma, and people put songs about holes in the fence at that institution. It wasn't worth it, either for my mother or for us as a family, and it wasn't an alternative for her to be there. She could not accept the help she needed. The Christian People's Party is concerned with mental health. We're occupied with capacity, we're occupied with decent construction, and we're engaged in a recognition of mental health on the same lines as physical health. Sometimes this is also linked, and therefore I am concerned not only to keep the old buildings for the old buildings. I think that's the wrong priority. I think we have to look all the way to both lifting mental health as part of the body, recognising the need for modern services and having enough capacity. It deserves this patient group, which unfortunately is still stigmatized in our society. So I'm concerned about many of the proposals that lie here, but I'm also concerned that this has to come in whole. That's why I'm concerned that we don't take it piece by piece and divide and hold on to anything, but that we're raising mental health as such wide within this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1120	We in the Patient Focus have talked to patients and their families, and that's the important thing. Co-localised hospitals with somatically ill patients and patients with drug or mental health problems often lead to insecurity for some patients and their families. It's important to have in the back of your head. Healthcare professionals in psychiatric hospitals are bound by professional secrecy, but in co-located hospitals, mentally ill or addicted parts of rooms and corridors with physical illness, Ola or Kari Nordmann, and it is important to bear in mind that Kari and Ola Nordmann are not bound by professional secrecy. In our representative proposal, we ask the Stortinget to be involved in ensuring a good hospital offer for patients in the field of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. For that, an investigation is needed. In the multicultural north, we also need an investigation into how we care for the needs of Sami and female patients. In a comment on our proposal, the Health Minister says that for many, there will be significantly less stigma associated with being admitted to a general hospital rather than a psychiatric hospital or a drug institution. To that it is to say, isn't it better that we build down the stigma, so that being mentally ill or admitted to an institution because of drug dependence is as natural as being physically ill in somatic hospitals? What stigma will it be if the neighbor tells the villagers that he Severre is a russian or psychiatric patient – and he knows it because they were in the same place? I allow myself to ask, what is a general hospital? Isn't it time for the drugs and psychiatry to be generalized as well? The words 'common people' have become the motto in this room in the last few months, and we in the Patient Focus have, as I said, talked to ordinary patients and their relatives. The patient Sverre, who is a bipolar, said this: I'm safer when I'm in a hospital with others with mental challenges. What do the neighbors have with me, when I'm mentally ill, not sleeping, dressing naked, acting sexually, uncritical to all the women I meet? Now I dress naked in the park around my psychiatric hospital. What if I do it outside the university hospital, where in the future I can be admitted? The conversations with patients and relatives make our list long. The brief and simple conclusion is described by Kari, who has the diagnosis of schizophrenia: I need to be a place where my disease is protected from the insight of others, because I can blame myself and violate my own integrity when the disease is in full bloom and I do things I would never do when I am healthy and at my full five. We believe it needs a proper investigation, and we hope that this hall will take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1135	I share the commitment of the proposers that we should have a good treatment offer in the field of mental health protection based on up-to-date knowledge of what provides good quality. The attitude suggests that we have a general consensus in Stortinget on the understanding of mental health and a common commitment to developing the field. Within the framework of this consensus, there are a number of questions that need further discussion, and I would like to get back to them in the alerted mental health escalation plan. We have to remember that the life expectancy of people with mental illness is up to 15 years shorter than that of the general population. Therefore, I would like to stress that this government believes that the co-location and integration of somatic services and mental health protection facilitates the provision of comprehensive services to patients when they need it. We are not waiting for the escalation plan, but we have already started the work. In the budget for 2022, we increased the appropriations for hospitals by 700 million. kr in addition to the arrangements of the Solberg Government, inter alia. justified by the need for mental health protection. In the mission papers for regional health businesses, I have made it clear that mental health protection and drug abuse are one of three main objectives. We have set the target of an activity growth in 2022 against 2021 in both diurnal and outpatient treatment. Last but not least, we have started to offer an assessment interview when people are referred to mental health protection. Now hospitals are starting to offer this in mental health protection for children and young people. To the minority's proposal to reduce a public sample, I would refer to a new escalation plan for mental health. Several of the proposals include: Long-term care for people convicted of mental health protection is one of the issues we need to look at there. I look forward to presenting a new escalation plan for mental health and the public debate and the Stortinget debate. In the government platform, we have also announced a new prevention and treatment reform in the drug field. I will come back to how the government will follow up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1148	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1153	In its hospital speech, the Council of State said that the current government would go away from what is called the golden rule, namely that regional health businesses should give priority to growth in mental health and drug addiction, individually, higher than that of somatic care every year. Under our government, we fulfilled the golden rule in the matter of drugs, while we did not fully achieve it in the field of mental health protection. But what, then, is the ambition to reach out to public health businesses if they do not have the objective of prioritising drugs and mental health higher with this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1158	We've changed the target of mental health protection and drugs. The background for it is that the golden rule, we believe, did not give a proper picture of the results achieved in the service. It was also difficult to measure against the somatic. In particular, after two years of pandemic, where hospitals cannot be said to have operated normally, it doesn't make sense to compare the two sizes. We have set a performance target that is about an activity growth in 2022, set up against 2021, both in the field of day care and outpatient treatment. That means that we want a bet on capacity, quality and activity, and that the field is measured from one year to the next on its own growth,
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1163	It is good that the Council of State agrees that this is an important area and an important field – within psychiatry. But in 20 years, the number of places is almost halved. That means that it's a little too easy just to blame the previous government, if the Council of State was going to do it. This is a challenge, it is believed that it has been a misguided policy, and other representatives have also said that. But I'm worried. I believe that we must now actually raise the daily treatment capacity again, and that is why the Progress Party has also proposed several hundred million kroner, 900 million. kr, for rushes and psychiatry in the budget of the year. But I feel that the government hasn't come up with anything, except that I hear the council says it's 700 million. They are to be distributed to hospitals, but they are to be distributed both by somatic means, or by regular hospital treatment, and by drugs and psychiatry, and then it suddenly becomes much smaller. I meet a lot of relatives. I meet many people who are addicted to drugs, or who have major mental challenges, who feel that you are not coming in and receiving treatment. So it's because it's not capacity, and it's not space. Now, what will the Council of State do to follow it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1170	We follow that up by increasing our capacity. We're also looking at how to improve the quality, and the sum of the two sizes is that hospitals need to increase the activity, and that means they need to help more patients. So it's this government that says in its government platform that now stops the construction of 24 hours' space. That's not what the last one said. We would like to discuss whether it has been a professional development or not. My father was a trained psychologist in 1974. At that time the jobs of his profession lay desolate in the countryside, in quiet surroundings and with tall fences. There has been a professional development, where most people also benefit from day care and living and working at home, but we are concerned about those who need long-term daily treatment, and therefore we have said here, but no longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1180	Yes, we agree, and I think everyone agrees that it's good. For many, day care is positive and works well, but it cannot be at the expense of actually reducing the number of places. Then I heard that the councillor in his hospital speech was very clear that free treatment choices should be removed. So when you talk about the professional and the importance of the profession, it means that for the government and the government, patients or those who need an offer – and what they are busy getting – are obviously not as important, because you don't want to be able to continue to have that opportunity. I think the important thing here is that people actually get treatment, and that as much as possible get treatment. If you're going to cut out this offer, it means it's going to be less space, because it often costs more in public than in private. Then you will find that you will quickly get swing door patients instead of actually helping people, and I want to challenge the Council of State on how she thinks it makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1188	I would like to make it clear that the measure of activity growth, which I responded to a former replicator, is also about measuring capacity growth both for 24-hour treatment and outpatient treatment. Norwegian patients will have great freedom of choice with this government. The situation today is that a number of treatment sites in non-profit institutions and private institutions are available to Norwegian patients through an agreement with the regional health service. Then there is a smaller proportion using treatment sites through the authorisation system of free choice of treatment. It's evaluated. We don't think it's appropriate, so we're going to wind it up, but it'll only be up to date from 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1195	I thank the Council of State for saying that we are going to have an escalation plan. We need that, and it's going to be Christian People's Party to be with and support. But now we've had a pandemic, and the shortage of professionals has been very great. We also know that the shortage of psych professionals can sometimes be great. It takes a long time, as long as it takes to train intensive nurses, to train a psychiatric nurse, a specialist who has a social background or a protective care background — or a psychiatrist and a psychologist. What are the thoughts of the Council of State to put this in parallel, so that we do not increase a capacity without having the competence – to get the maximum out of the escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1206	This is the representative of Bollestad in the very centre. We need professionals to provide both better quality and faster access to our mental health services. We also start with a more offensive recruitment. Hospitals have been given an increased number of educational positions, both for doctors and for specialist nurses, for which there is a major shortage. And there are also other personnel groups that are important. Psychologists need more of them. We have at all a great need for professionals to lift this field. And now we're starting an assessment conversation for children and young people. We think that's very important. One of five referrals to the paediatric psychiatry is rejected without having met the health service. Often there may be a help offer in the municipality that is right for you. An evaluation interview can also improve interaction with the municipality, where we also want to strengthen mental health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1213	I noticed that there were educational positions in the budget. If you're going to spread it from midwife to psychiatric nurse, to health care nurse, to psychiatric nurse, that's not enough. My question is whether the Council of State sees fit to put a stepping-up plan, so that we actually also have an overview of who goes into retirement soon, so that there is a greater increase than departure, natural departure, just so that we don't get into the situation that we now experience, that many of the specialities we need, either are in retirement or have gone for other reasons, and so that we ensure a habilly service that benefits patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1218	Here the government has set up its own Health Personnel Commission. They started working last week, and they will help us with a better analysis and a better knowledge base on how to manage to train, recruit and maintain health professionals for the needs we have in the future. The population composition is changing, and we need to equalise the part of health care that we are debating today, which we also know leads to high sick leave and a significant disability. We have expectations of that work, it will be part of what we also include in the next new health and hospital plan, which we have given the work title health and interaction plan. The availability of personnel and the right skills is a main task ahead, and here we hope that a commission thinks outside the box and gives us good data.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1223	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes. Grete Wold is currently the last recorded speaker in case no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1230	It was nice that I would be allowed to have the last word in this matter, from a committee I am not a member of. We all have a mental health, and it can, like somatic health, be good, or it can be bad in periods of life. Some people need specialist help for shorter or longer periods, and then it is of course absolutely essential that it is good enough. The better help you get, the more skilled professionals you meet, and the more organized the premises are, the greater the chance of getting well and getting back to your own life. Psychotherapy and drug treatment are not exactly the same, but there is one thing that is common to both groups, and that is that there is a need for differentiated and good treatment. After working many years in this field, I can say with my hand on my heart that everyone I've met has a very unique story, because the suffering is different, the situation in life is different, and the ability to handle both is different. This means that we need a variety of treatment services, which means that we need to be careful about having too much emphasis on either centralised services or too much local and decentralised services. History shows that this pendulum swings. It now turns towards what the WHO also recommends, namely local and local services, as well as more decentralised municipal services. It is important – essential. So in this case, there is a clear concern that we are now building down the daily places, and that we are not taking care of the effort they actually need to get professionally good, qualitative treatment. This field is a subject in which we do not have sufficient experience and knowledge, and it is precisely for this reason that it is advisable to stop more frequently and assess the correct balance between specialist day care, community and not least outpatient services and the interaction between specialist health services and municipal services. We are now in a situation where there are quite a number of people who get mental problems. The local government sector has high expectations, and often it is not in line with the transfers it receives. Resource-intensive services are eating more and more of the municipal health budget, and therefore, in many municipalities too, the possibility of providing a sound and good offer to all is limited. There is therefore still a need for good specialised hospitals, specialised hospital services that can provide comprehensive services. It is therefore a major concern, also from several disciplines, that we are now building down spaces without having built up similar good services in the municipalities. Therefore, it is a good idea to reduce a sample, put a foot in the ground, listen to the trade unions, listen to the user organisations and assess the benefits and disadvantages and find a balanced and balanced balance between decentralised and specialised services. We have to listen to the professionals, we have to listen to the users, and we have to take with us the experience we've gained so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1247	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1264	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign out in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1271	It is essentially a co-ordinated control and constitution committee that supports the position and comments in this case. The importance of being able to provide good health and care services to disabled children cannot be stressed enough and is something that has been expressed on several occasions. Therefore, it is good that we receive such reports from the National Audit Office as is available, where the aim of the survey has been to assess to what extent children and young people with disabilities and their families receive equivalent and coordinated health and care services, and whether state instruments contribute to that very purpose. The National Audit Office’s report concludes that municipalities and health businesses do not provide the same good health services to children and young people with disabilities. The report points out that, among other things: the place of residence, the diagnosis and the efforts of the parents affect the nature of the child's offers, and the kind of assistance provided by the municipalities and health businesses to them with needs. Don't be like that. The degree of criticism of the National Audit Office in this matter is serious. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs believes it is important to listen to the findings and work to improve the offer. On several occasions, the size has shown that children and families with children with disabilities need better public assistance. It is about getting more guidance and information on what kind of services you can get, and the help needs to be coordinated even better. Equivalent health and care services are an important objective. This means that the service should be provided based on the needs of the child and that everyone should have equal access to the service. Neither your mailbox nor your parents' efforts should have anything to say. The child’s needs shall be decisive. I am pleased that the Health and Minister of Care, Mr. Ingvild Kjerkol, is clear that it needs to be taken into account. The same was stated by the then State Council, Bent Höie, in his reply to the Riksrevision, in the context of the preparation of the report. Cross-politics are critical to ensuring good health and care services for the most vulnerable in our society. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter, and I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1288	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the good work and good cooperation in the Committee. In 2019, 14 000 children and young people received municipal services, such as: residence in an institution, user-controlled personal assistant, support contact or relief. Nearly 12,000 children with disabilities were for rehabilitation in the specialist health service, but in addition, all the children who did not get the help they wanted and needed come. Unfortunately, the National Audit Office’s study shows that there are still differences in health Norway, for example: what help children with disabilities and their families receive. We know that, for example. are twice as many children, compared to the population, who receive habilitation in health south-east as in health west. What kind of help is given in municipalities is also influenced by the large differences in the services provided by health regions. Too many municipalities fail parents with young children. Three out of five municipalities did not grant relief to families with children under five years of age. The relief outside the home is also not a current offer for everyone, and it should be. Families must also take a heavy responsibility to ensure assistance and coordination of services themselves, and that is not the case. This is also the background for the Solberg Government proposing to legislate the right to a child coordinator as part of its co-reform and funded it by 100 million. kr in its last draft budget. It is a unanimous committee that supports the Riksrevision that it is serious that the services depend on where the families live and that parents themselves have to do a lot to get the help they need and are entitled to. Furthermore, it is important to be heard when complaining, and the state administrators are the most important watchpoints we have to prevent injustice. However, the National Audit Office points out that government administrators have different practices in dealing with complaints and that this contributes to increasing differences in the provision of assistance by municipalities. We also know that no case is equal to, and 100 pst. equal treatment is difficult, but it may become more similar. Although we agree on most of this matter, it is also a party political dimension, and it is probably primarily about the freedom of choice of families. An important security mechanism when a service fails and you do not reach the complaints you have is to be able to choose another offer, choose an alternative. There is a political dividing line that is quite clear. The possibility of choosing whom to help with and how to provide it is important for many families with a high need for assistance. Take, for example: The BPA scheme. With the BPA scheme, families are given greater influence over their own daily lives. It's very good, but it doesn't work as well in all municipalities, we have to admit it. That is why the government of Solberg set up a legal committee to strengthen that system. However, there is much evidence that freedom of choice may be reduced in the years ahead. In fewer municipalities, families with a need for help are given the opportunity to decide about their own daily lives, for example: by choosing BPA, through the free choice of user, or where to receive rehabilitation and training in the specialist health service under the free choice of treatment scheme. By limiting these options for families, an important safety valve is removed in the system and patient rights are weakened. However, the Committee is converging on the important and serious findings and conclusions of the Riksaudition report. We stand together to support the recommendations that are being promoted. Right will also inform us that we support the Christian People's Party's loose proposals in the matter. Families with children with disabilities shall be ensured good, organised and coordinated services, alike and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1313	This report shows the despair of everyday life in families with strongly needy children. They need to coordinate the help they need, because the coordinator of the municipality is not working. If they are not content with the offer and complain, the complaints are handled differently. There is no need for this family when care work is heavy. In particular, I would like to draw the advice from the National Audit Office that the Ministry needs to acquire better knowledge about the supply of health and care services to these families is so different. We need to look for what is needed to make the family feel equivalent. Such knowledge is important to put in place changes that make the situation really better. If the coordinator doesn't work, maybe we should look for solutions other than law enforcement. The National Audit Office points out that the coordinator must have time, appropriate competence and support from the management to resolve the problem. Then it may not be possible that more detailed legal requirements improve the services. Local authorities may need knowledge, freedom and resources to organise this properly. There is a lot of talk about free treatment options, but now several national audit reports have shown that it works well in theory, but in practice it works badly for those who really need it. I think what's important is that one has arrangements that work for everyone and that help. Often it is those who need the most, who have the least resources in the first place, and then they have to make sure that there are such good solutions that they too can use them. I hope that the department is now looking for the good solutions, so that one can put in place the right grips to provide a better supply for families that both adults and children may have enjoyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1326	Very much in this setting is unanimous comments and unanimous views. At the end of the setting it says: ‘The Committee notes that the National Audit Office recommends the Ministry of Health and Welfare to’ – and then follows a number of indents. It's at the end: ‘The Committee also endorses the recommendations and asks the National Audit Board to continue monitoring the development of equivalent health and care services.’ This is in the form of a comment, but in a way these indents should have the same status as the request decision. I mention this because in the case of request decisions in Stortinget, Stortinget gets feedback about how the government has followed things up. But when it comes to joining a recommendation from the Riksrevision, and in so far as the Riksrevision is asking for follow-up, the Storting does not automatically get any feedback on how the government has assessed this. I am addressing this because it may be necessary to consider whether the form of the Storting decision in these cases should be changed to a request decision, with all these indents, so that we can ensure feedback from the government on how the follow-up to this is. It will be a new practice and would, of course, lead to more request decisions, but it may be in place. This is something that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs should discuss in more detail, so that we can ensure that where there is a unanimous committee that supports recommendations on what a department should do, the form of a request decision might be better. Then the Progress Party has a special note where we point out some of course, and it is that everything that the Storting and the government offer and provide services in the country, that if it is made a municipal responsibility, both financially and organisationally, it really means that there will be a difference between municipalities and municipalities. If one wants a uniform, equal offer for all, throughout the country — in this case children with disabilities — it cannot be a municipal responsibility. Then it must be made a financial, but also a state responsibility, as the entire system of popular security is built up, and as Nav's services are. I'm talking about the two state parts of Nav, and not the municipal one. They'll be independent of the municipalities. And at least it's our view that there's going to be a similar offer. Then we have to make it part of the Nav system rather than let the municipalities decide for themselves how to follow up. There are a number of issues where the National Audit Office points out that in those and those areas there is a difference between municipalities and municipalities. That is why the Progress Party has also said that a lot of services should be funded by the People's Security System and can be organised through Nav. The fact that the municipality, if any, carries out the work of municipal employees is a completely different issue, but that is the financial one that usually governs this. We're going to get back to this. We see, for example: also in Oslo there are several services, including for children with disabilities, which vary from city to city. And with regard to the production of services in some areas for children with disabilities, in particular: those with autism are only services for the children in the eastern parts of the city and none in the western parts. That means that children have to be transported, maybe for 20 minutes in the morning and 20 minutes after school, because there is no school offer on the Oslo West, just on the Oslo East. Of course, it is also unfortunate that this is divided into a geographical responsibility for either a part of the city or a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1344	I just want to make the previous speaker aware that there is also a service offer in Oslo west of children who need it, just so that's said. I take the floor in this case to make it clear that the challenges many parents, families and professionals face in relief measures are challenges I am well aware of. For more than 15 years, I have worked in those measures, and I know that there is clearly a need to improve these health and care services. It must happen in the municipalities, but there must also be work here in the house to make everyday life easier for both the children and their families. When I take the floor in this debate, it is to explain why I have recommended the SV's big group to vote against the Christian People's Party's loose proposals. The NOU it refers to, self-governing is well-managed, has still not been consulted, and it contains among others. a great dispenser, as also several organizations, including the lion's mother, have pointed out is challenging. The most important thing now is to set up a good enough consultation process where we listen to both those involved and their families and professionals in the field. With that, I have explained SV's position on solving the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1353	To begin with, it is part of the job with the NOU – to get it out at the hearing. It's part of the proposal that you start working with it. The pandemic has set its tracks, and for some deeper than for others. There are serious findings that the Riksrevision has now made with regard to the provision of health care to children and young people with disabilities. They point out that the offer is fragmented, it's arbitrary and not least depending on where we live, how old we are, or what diagnosis we have. We can't have it like that. Many people have to travel more than 20 minutes to get an offer. This is very serious, and it makes a big impression on me. Many in Norway get the help they need, when they need it — fortunately. But unfortunately, there are still some people who still have to work hard to get the help they need. It may not be you and me, but families with kids who need complex services. Parents shall be able to use their time to be parents and not administrators. I am therefore pleased with the co-reform and child co-ordinator's guarantee of Christian People's Party when we put in government – a reform I hope will contribute to better help, better coordination and not least that these families will feel that we as a society stand for exactly them. The BPA scheme is important. The selection that we set up in time, with the aim of realizing that the BPA would be a gender equality tool, has just delivered its report. It has to be filled up. But in the light of the findings of the National Audit Office's report, which we are discussing today, I expect the government to work quickly with a follow-up of that NOU, so that those who need it the most, get the help they need. Knowing that you're going to be a parent can be both nice and scary at once. For some, pregnancy also means that they are told that they are waiting for a child with special needs or that the child has been diagnosed already during pregnancy. Seeing how it can be everyday can be difficult for many. That's why I was proud that the Christian People's Party set up a contact family arrangement that would make it easier to get information and support to prepare for the life that awaits these families. Unfortunately, today's government, together with SV, has cut this important offer. I think that's sad. I hope this is not an indication of how today's government will treat this group. What gives me hope is that the setting we are debating today is unanimous. Everyone in this room sees the seriousness and hopefully will therefore contribute to solutions that these families now need. The Christian People's Party has, in order to ensure this, promoted a proposal in the matter, and that is the following: ‘The government is asking, in the light of the National Audit Office’s investigation, to follow the recommendations of NOU 2021:11 Self-governing is well-managed, in order to ensure real equality and to prevent unfortunate differences between municipalities in the service and relief provision of persons with disabilities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1373	Then the representative, Olug Vervik Bollestad, took up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1378	The National Audit Office’s study of health and care services for children with disabilities addresses important issues relevant to the availability and quality of services. The National Audit Office points out that there are large differences and insufficient capacities in healthcare firms’ habilitation services for children and young people and that there is a wide variation in skills and capacity. Health regions are now assessing the need for increased resources to ensure professional quality, competence and equivalent service provision and also interaction in habilitation services. We get the answer to that assignment in March. I will follow up the reports to ensure that children in need of rehabilitation receive good and geographically equivalent services. The National Audit Office points out that there is variation between municipalities in the service allocation. I also take that with me in the further work. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of legislation that provides the local authorities with the necessary space for action in order to take into account local conditions and resources in the provision of a well-adapted and customised offer to the individual. We will continue to support municipalities in providing good and equivalent services. Therefore, this government has strengthened the free revenues of municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr more than the Solberg Government's budget proposal. We also proposed to reverse the proposed $300 million cut. kr in the grant for resource-intensive services. The national audit reveals that families often have to take responsibility for coordinating and providing services themselves, and they have to deal with many actors in order to obtain the necessary information and guidance. Patients and users in need of long-term and coordinated services are legally entitled to the coordinator in the municipality. However, although local authorities are obliged to provide coordinators, there are several places of difficulty in following up the scheme in practice. As part of the equivalency reform, the right to children's coordinator will come into force from 1 August. The right to complain is also important in order to safeguard the rights of people. The State Health Authority has updated the Guide in the treatment of complaints under the Patient and User Rights Act, which shall contribute to ensuring sound treatment and non-discrimination. We need to know about the actual situation in services, and this report is an important contribution to a broader understanding of services and how they can improve. We take into account the position of the Control Committee in the further work on equivalent health and care services for children and young people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1391	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1398	Being a parent of a child with disabilities gives joy, but also challenges. Being the sibling of a brother or sister with disabilities is also a dimension that can be difficult for many to understand. I was the youngest of four siblings. My ten - year - old older brother also became my little brother. My mother became a widow when she was 52 years old, and when she was 72 years old, she still attended parental meetings. My brother was my parents' joy, but also their concern, for what was that supposed to be? My mother was in most of the games that parents do today, and this was in the 1980s. It's sad to see. As a sister of a disabled person, it is therefore important to say that having children the rights they claim is a strength for the whole family, who often have great enough concerns to get the days to hang together. We in the Patient Focus consider the Riksrevision conclusion to be very serious. We recognise a part of this trend in specialist health services, of which patient focus is very concerned. We in the Patient Focus are concerned that ordinary parents who have a child with special needs have the right to a good life. The National Audit Office's report must be followed up, not only in the Ministry, but also here at the Stortinget. It's about equal rights to a worthy life for children with disabilities, their siblings and their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1409	Children are the most vulnerable in our society. Children who are ill or have disabilities have an additional responsibility to take care of them both as adults and as managing authorities. There's serious criticism coming from the Riksrevision. The fact that the residence address of the child is to decide whether they are receiving help and that families have to assume a major responsibility for coordination is serious. It shows that the growth and governance authorities do not take their responsibility. We hear about and experience desperate situations. In a challenging situation and a challenging everyday life, the family should be assisted. Our system is big and extensive, and that's the most dear we have that's in the center. Then the system around it has to work. When you see that something is not working in practice, it needs to be changed. The government is responsible for that. The government shall follow up on the practices of the State administrator and that these are carried out in the same way. When something doesn't work in practice, you have to pick up knowledge about why, and what to do to get it done. A government should allow enough resources to allow municipalities to perform their tasks. Fortunately, we are in agreement here in the Chamber that changes need to be made. Now it's a new government. The Hurdal Platform states that the Centre Party-Work Party government should strengthen the universal welfare provision of children and young people in order to ensure freedom for all kinds of families and to reduce differences in society. The Centre Party-Work Party-Government will review and improve arrangements for families with children with special needs, and we have already increased the rights of municipalities. The new government is a government for the children, no matter what their children live on, and what challenges they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1424	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate. Children and young people with disabilities are among our most vulnerable in society. Ensuring good health and care services to them is important and a special priority for the Workers' Party-Center Party administration. Because it's about the seventh and last time Nina and her three-year-old son, who the NRK wrote about a little while ago, who feels like they're not getting the help they need. They are supported by the Chairman of the Joint Organisation of Disabilities, who is clearly of the opinion that the State must get on the road. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State is so clear in its statement that this is important for the government, and that the government will follow up. Another issue concerns the representative of Hagen – an interesting issue related to the follow-up to the recommendations of the National Audit Office. Regardless of the use of a request decision or another one, which is another debate, to be taken by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the Riksrevision will follow up the case after three years, in Document 3:1. In addition, I can promise the President that the Committee will now follow this matter further. The government has started well by strengthening the local economy by 2.5 billion. Compared to the proposals of the previous Government. It will give the Kommune-Norway space for action and better opportunity to provide good health and care services to those children and young people who actually need it, because they deserve it, and that's very important. Otherwise, we will not support the solution proposed by the Christian People's Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1437	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1456	Most of the elderly in Norway live a good life. They are active, social and contribute to small and large communities. In the years to come, there will be more elderly people. It tells us that we have good health in our country, but also that we need to build a good care for the elderly with a high quality and to prepare the health and care service for our ageing. Older people today have better education, more resources and more prerequisites for living a more active life than before. This needs to be given greater emphasis in older policy, and therefore we need to create a more age-friendly society, which recognises older people as valuable contributors to society. No one should feel that they are not able to contribute. When we, as elected representatives, travel around our country on visits to municipalities, hospitals and elderly people's centres, we are happy to hear about everything that is good in the policy of the elderly. But when we travel again, the notices come, the complaints about everything that is not good. Of course, it's not like that everywhere. In some places the offer is good, while in others it doesn't keep goal. There may be several reasons why it is – that the food is poor, that it is too little activity and community, or that the quality of the health service is not good enough. In 2018, Right in Government with Minister of Health and Care Bent Höie presented the quality reform Life throughout his life. The aim of the reform is that older people can master life longer and have a safe, active and worthwhile old age, but also that relatives are not worn out, and that employees are given a good job in a good working environment. Life throughout life should address the differences in quality that we see between municipalities, and address the most basic things that fail when we talk about care for the elderly, such as food, activity and community, the quality of health services and the coherence of services. Life throughout life is about learning from one another, about taking it as an employee, older people, relatives and volunteers in municipalities have seen it work in practice, lifting it up and putting it into system, so that several municipalities can implement good old age policies with local adjustments. You can learn from the municipality of Gjøvik, which in the nursing homes moved the dinner to regular dinner times, you can learn from Stavanger, who conducts preventive home visits, and you can learn from Tromsø, who has writing courses for the elderly along with school students. In the fall I was visiting one of the municipalities that has managed to follow up Life-Reform in a good way. In 2020, Kinn won the Western municipality Live the whole life-price for his work of creating a better care for the elderly and a more age-friendly society. They have adopted their own local life-plan, and they have employed their own community coordinator to follow up their work. It is clear from the funding from the grant scheme established to follow up the reform, and they will make use of the regional and national support instruments established to disseminate knowledge of the reform and provide the municipalities with technical support and guidance in their work. At the right of the government, a number of strategies and plans were also put in place to support reform and local authorities, including local authorities. Competence level 2025, Demenplan 2025, related strategy and national strategy for good nutrition and nutrition of the elderly in nursing homes and the elderly receiving home services. When the Workers' Party and the Center's party presented their government statement in the autumn, I was a little worried, because in the government statement, Life is not the whole life-reform mentioned in a single word. That is worrying, because the reform is one of the most important things we do to give more older people a more active, safe and worthy old age. Nor was it any better when the government, in its supplementary proposal to the State budget for 2022, cut the investment grant for several organised housing for the elderly in the districts. To put it mildly, it was a bad start for the government in the field of old age policy. Life throughout life has a clear timetable for its implementation. The reform is now in phase 3, which is about implementing and implementing solutions and measures. If the reform is to succeed, we need a government that follows with continuous policies, funds and support apparatus. I am promoting this interpellation today to know what is the status of the implementation of the Life Life-Reform in the municipalities, and to know how the government has intended to follow up the Life-Reform on. Right-wing believes that living the whole life reform is the most important thing we do to give older people a safe, active and worthy old age. I look forward to the answers from the Council of State and to the interpellation debate, in which I hope the most parties participate, because this is an area that concerns very many of the people who live in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1479	Older people must be sure that the community is set up. Therefore, in the Hurdal platform, we have determined a number of points to give older people a safe and good old age. We know that many municipalities work systematically with the follow-up to Life throughout their lives, but they have also asked for resources and more tools to work with quality improvement. Municipalities need more than a centralized ambition to learn from each other. They need more tools over time. Therefore, this government has strengthened the free revenues of municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr more than the Solberg government. We will continue to support municipalities in improving the quality of care for the elderly, and at the same time we will reverse efforts towards new areas. We will implement a reform with activity guarantees for the elderly, commitment to welfare technology and good nutrition. We want to work for a home-service that works prevention and that helps to keep people healthy longer, help the elderly in activity and provide security. We have also set up a Health Personnel Commission, which will provide an overall and knowledge-based assessment of the needs for personnel and competences up to 2040. Just staff and competences — professionals — are important in order to achieve our older policy objectives. The government wants older people to live in owner-occupied dwellings as far as possible — if they can and if they want to. This is in line with Life all his life, but at the same time our reform has greater ambitions and more dimensions. Among other things, we believe that home services should be organised with a regular team, and that it is a goal that users should have one door to community services. These are examples of objectives to be achieved with good plans and targeted efforts. Older people need homes that are designed for the life phase they are in and adapted to the individual’s need to be able to live at home as long as it is desirable. The government adds to a housing policy that is more in line with today's reality picture. Then we have to have more departments with us, and we have therefore taken the initiative for a separate old-age housing programme. We also need to provide investment grants to municipalities in order to provide them with adequate health care facilities, security housing and lucky day care facilities for their inhabitants. In this year's budget, a national and regional support device for Life has been granted for life. The essential thing with the funds is to provide the municipalities with guidance on the way to creating lasting changes in the service. In addition, the development centres for nursing homes and home care were strengthened in 2022, and the agreement with the KS on lifelong follow-up to Life was continued in the consultation meeting with the KS on 13 January. The agreement is important as a framework for cooperation on new initiatives and measures. We need to use the structures and the knowledge base we have to support municipalities towards a safer and better old age. It is central to this government not to spend undue time building up new structures. We're going to spend time making better days for the elderly, for example. through a trust reform in the public sector. Trust is a guiding principle for how we cooperate with municipalities to put in place an actual change for those who work in the service, and for those who need the community to set up. It's not enough for us to repeat self-evident goals that are formulated throughout life. The government will support and strengthen municipalities and facilitate them to meet the challenges of the future. It is time for a new and sustainable policy that clearly shows that the community is setting up so that its citizens can be sure that they can live a long and good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1492	Right in the government has arranged for one to strengthen Life throughout his life. It was we who took the initiative in the reform, and among other things. We have also provided the 46 million grant scheme. kr, precisely to enable municipalities to employ community coordinators – as they have done in the municipality of Kinn, where they have a community coordinator who contributes to joint activities and information for the elderly. Then I can repeat a lot of what we have done in the government, both that there have been 15 000 more annual health and health services, that we have got 20,000 more lucky days' care places – which is twice as many as the last time the Workers' Party and the Centre have been put into government – that 146 000 more employees have been filled with skills, that we have provided a safety standard in the hospitals, and not least that we have received an investment grant for more organized housing for older people in the districts. Then I think it's a little strange when the Council of State stands on the platform and says that we shouldn't build new structures, while that's exactly what one does when one chooses to remove the investment grant, and then one starts a new program for what we've already started in government. I also think it is important to say that this is not just about the care of the elderly. In fact, it is also about creating a more age-friendly society, where older people are seen as valuable contributors to society. A very good example of that is Ole Didrik Lærum of 81 years. He was a cancer researcher at Haukeland University Hospital for many years. When he turned 70, he was told that now he could no longer be in work, because we had just set a limit. But he received a professorship at the University of Copenhagen, which enabled him to continue to contribute to the working life and parts of his experience and knowledge. Therefore, age-friendly society is also an incredibly important part of this reform. I think it's a little strange that the government, among other things. drew up the proposal put forward by the Right in the government to increase the age limit from 70 to 72 years – precisely to enable those who want to and can contribute to the labour market to do so. But this government has put an end to that. So the care of the elderly, and how we build a good care for the elderly where people get activity, security and dignity, is incredibly important. It is also important that we facilitate a more age-friendly society where more people can contribute. We also have several challenges that the Council of State did not face. Loneliness among older people is a growing problem. We see that half of those who are in a nursing home are at risk of being undernourished. We see that we need a health-free boost, and we see that we need to focus more on competence. So I would so much like to hear a little bit more from the Council of State about how to build on the Life-Reform, which has already been put forward and is already going on, and not building new structures, which the Council of State itself recommends not to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1507	I hear the representative Svardal Bøe in both of his posts more specifically that the Right presented the older reform Life throughout my life, but I was present when it was presented, and it was actually presented by the senior minister of the Progress Party, Åse Michaelsen. One of the things about the time Senior Minister Åse Michaelsen said in his presentation of the reform was that there were no new appropriations or paragraphs. This also led KS to follow up and describe the reform Life throughout life as a maximised document with minimal policy. And that might underline a little bit of the challenge. Collecting good goals and sharing experiences is something that the municipalities run on all along, and now it's been systematized through Life all their lives. The interpellant asked for the status of that work, and I tried to give it. I hear that he challenged a number of others in his second post, but we have therefore continued the agreement with KS. We are also continuing the tools in the reform to enable mutual exchange of experience to take place, and we are following up the evaluation that is coming, but we will see this together. There has been a preliminary mid-term report in the follow-up to the evaluation of the reform. It comes from OsloMet in February, and we will assess the results of the first November report, which is the first. Then we have a number of other points in the Hurdal platform, and it would be strange if a government had the greatest focus on a reform that the previous government put out, and that we also seem to have limited power. For us, it is important to start investing in municipalities. The government of Solberg left the government offices with a historically low number of new hospitals, 500 places, and that was not something we could get into the extra proposition. Now, the municipalities have had two years in which to a large extent they have concentrated on dealing with an ongoing pandemic, but our ambition is that we should get up the pace of building both suitable homes for the elderly where they can live and manage themselves, and also several health homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1516	It is interesting to hear the representative Svardal Bøe describe the situation. He does that in a very good way, but what is an indisputable fact here is that the biggest challenges in the municipalities are not necessarily to cooperate with each other. You are very good at that, even if you can get even better there, of course. It's always like that. I say this as a former municipal politician: it is the financial framework that is most challenging. Over the two and three years I was in Kongsberg City Council, I spent most of my time figuring out how to get enough money for what we already did. That was the biggest challenge. That's what the government delivers. Increased frameworks are being provided to municipalities, increased frameworks that will contribute to even better care for older people in municipalities, and it is an even better and more powerful measure than Life for the rest of your life. Then, of course, we'll continue with the Life Life-Reform. The ideas and thoughts there are good, but when it is presented here in such a way that there is doubt as to whether it is an ambition for the sitting government to bet on care for the elderly and adapt our services in such a way that people live a better life even when they are older, it is a completely wrong description of the reality. This government is doing a great deal – by strengthening the community economy, by launching a trust reform, a trust reform that will ensure that employees have more to say, that there is more trust between the different parts of our healthcare system, and by spending more time on quality criteria instead of using stopwatches, which is a description of many of those working in our healthcare systems. It'll make the quality better. This will give more people the attention and quality of life you want. So the Minister of Health very well explains to a lot of the measures we are going to take. Many of them are powerful measures that make real differences, such as: ensuring more money to expand our health services, e.g. through nursing homes. Also, my former municipality of residence, Rollag, is struggling like just that to get a new health home in place. The old nursing home is very old, it's worn out, but the economy doesn't allow to build new ones. It's a challenge. This challenge stems from the municipal economy, a municipal economy that has not improved in the last eight years, but worse, and that, after the Støre government went on, has become significantly better. Life for the rest of your life is good, and it's very nice that there's a lot of commitment in this room to follow up the old age policy. We're very happy about that, and we're also very happy that you're concerned about the government delivering. But it should also be said that we need more than living the whole life-reform to get to the goal, and I am absolutely sure that the government will deliver on it. I'm looking forward to the next four years, because the next four years will help the elderly in Norway live an even better life than they have until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1529	Thank you to interpellant Erlend Svardal Boe for raising this question. It is important to get a status on the implementation of this reform, and it is important for the Storting to know how the new government will follow up on this further. If I'm going to be completely honest, sometimes I'm a little bit unsure about whether those who receive home services, or who live in a nursing home and need help 24 hours a day, are so concerned about the distinction between two governments that what we in the hall are in between. I think they're busy having good business days. I think they're concerned that they meet with a health service that sees them, that allows them to live their lives as normal and as much as possible as they could before they got a health loss that made them need help. Therefore, I would like to talk about this kind of quality in the care of the elderly, not always going down into the trenches and telling each other how nice we have been, because we haven't been so good over many years. We have professional guidelines and instructions to follow up on food. We have the same thing about physical activity, and we have the same thing about medicine. But one thing is certain: if there is something we have seen over many years, it is that this is made wrong every day in Norwegian municipalities. It is very important for patients and the elderly – for those who do not get the help they need. The quality reform Life throughout life just put it up to follow up on these things, which can work simple, in system. It may seem easy to enjoy having dinner moved to a nursing home, but it is of great importance to the health of the elderly that nutrition becomes an important part of health care. If you don't eat well enough, you lose even more functions when you're sick. It can cause even more disease, it can cause falls, and it can be the beginning of a very, very difficult spiral for many. Living all my life is a kind of toolbox, and I'm so very happy that there are a lot of municipalities that have used it, because it's not always like the previous speaker from the Workers' Party, Even Røed, said, that the municipalities are very good at nurturing each other. I think a lot of times there's a lot of dense shoots, and I think a lot of times I'm going to municipalities that have solved problems in amazing ways, regardless of which parties control them, and then there's a neighboring municipality that doesn't do it at all. It must be possible to focus on this reform, which is primarily about doing the right things. I believe that the Council of State is absolutely right in that it is important to ensure good transfers to the municipalities in order to have good care for the elderly, and that it is important to secure enough money to build up human resources in the municipalities. But money isn't everything. I visited Nygård Hospital in Sandefjord, which won a competition called Golden Meal moment. The kitchen manager of the kitchen said that it was much cheaper when they started to cook from the bottom of, and that it was much more expensive to buy semi-finished products and poor solutions for the patients. But they thanked and decided that their patients would be given a diet that made them live well in the nursing home. They even introduced à la carte in the restaurant. I think more people should reach for that, but it was no more expensive, it was cheaper to cook from the bottom. The relationship in Life throughout life is incredibly important. If you eat well, you can do more, and you need fewer medicines. If you get the wrong medication, it affects your everyday life. All of us who have been relatives or patients and who have experienced medication errors. Using new tools can restore control of your own activities. If you're in activity, it makes you fresher, both physically and mentally, and it gives you your appetite back. And that's where I started: food is important, and I hope this government follows up Life all my life, because they deserve it out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1544	I would also like to begin by thanking the interpellant for allowing us to debate and discuss care for the elderly, and not least I want to praise the work actually done in the care of the elderly on a general basis in our municipalities. Municipalities work systematically and have done so over a long period of time, through, for example: work on good community plans and thematic plans. Through this work, a clear strategy and field of action is developed based on local needs and expected local development. It is precisely this work that enables local populace to evaluate both frameworks and investment measures. What has been mentioned here before, cooperation between municipalities and regions, and not least cooperation with the KS, has over time given us a robust care for the elderly in this country. The latter, KS, now points out in a new report prepared by Nordic research that one of the reasons for the developments we have seen is that the real growth in costs for municipalities in the care of the elderly has been 3.4 pst. since 2015. In comparison, the real growth in the income of the municipalities during the same period was 1.4 pst. per year. Elder care and the health care provided by municipalities are extensive and large. Too many municipalities go close to 70 pst. and preferably up to 80 pst. of the income framework of this service provision today. Living the whole life-reform has expanded the toolbox in some areas. At the same time, a large number of municipalities have been excluded because one has not supplied all the parameters of the reform. This is not a good development. Many municipalities report significant increases in resource use within planning and bureaucracy without actually benefiting older people and citizens in the form of the necessary health care. When corruption and government commit themselves to municipal law-enforcement tasks, a reform must be created that does not exclude but includes it. For this reason, the new government must – and will – apply to reform work such as: Life throughout life is not meant for a few, but for the width of all municipalities. Such work must also be accompanied by the necessary economic resources. Therefore, the government party is now completing the process of strengthening the local economy into this year. Nearly 5 billion. In the case of increased free income, municipalities are able to meet their statutory duties in a good way. Local self-government with a local approach and a adapted economic framework must always be the decisive factor in creating the best care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1559	It is true, as has been said, that one of the great projects of the previous government was the reform of life – no matter who proposed that reform, or who put it in government right then. I think this is important for many reasons, but especially because we're raising the elderly, and because we're saying that what we all want is to be allowed to live our whole lives. The situation is that the number over 70 will double within 40 years, from 670,000 to 1.4 million. The number over 80 years will triple in the same period, and the number over 90 years will fivefold after the forecasts – because we live longer, and we are healthier. But there will be more people who are sick because we live longer, and that makes us have a common challenge. I've been a little uncertain about what has been the government's project for the elderly, because I haven't heard so much about this group before. When the interpellant raises it and we get answers from the Council of State, I think it's good that we get an answer to how the new government thinks about this. We have the same challenge. Then we've had two years of pandemic, and we still have pandemic. There are many who have known about solitude, and perhaps the most common has been for a long time for the elderly. We cannot solve this loneliness with welfare technology, even if welfare technology is good. We can't replace it with anything other than people. Loneliness can be replaced by people and good human meetings. I have not heard any mention of solitude and old age. We're talking about community economics. Yeah, that's very important. We're talking about procedures, really important. We're talking about activity. We can meet people there. We're talking about technology. We can meet people there, but not enough. Those who have been most isolated are perhaps still concerned about whether the infection will reach them, or whether they will again be allowed to experience some of the social communities in their lives, some of the activities they were part of before the isolation. Community is incredibly important, and meal is extremely important. Meal isn't just food. Meal is to bring forth a culture. It's using the senses of smell, taste and feeling. It's also about sharing. It's about culture and belonging, and it's actually medicine for those who get to sit around a good meal. That is why I want so much that we continue simple projects. Volunteering has contributed to eating friends and to mating decorates. This means that we connect departments, connect the primary producers that make food, the volunteers that create the good moment, so that people know that even though I've been 70 or 80 years, I belong to a place, I mean something, I'm missing if I don't come, and if my wife or my husband dies, I can get knowledge that enables me to make food myself or be a place where I'm being cared for. So in a couple of years, we're double 70 years old, we have a triple number of 80s and five times that number of 90s. That means we have to find the good solutions together. We can't go to the trenches. We need to create an older policy, a health home policy, a housing policy and a social policy that fences on the volunteers and the ideals that bring out communities and that describes some of the things that the community means, with the will to make good human meetings so that people experience being part of, even though they are older.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1576	Everyone was older before. The older I get, the more I reflect on just this. Mentally, a person likes to think of himself as significantly younger than what he actually is. I still celebrate my 30th birthday, on the 11th year, although I really don't feel much older than 25. Halfdan Sivertsen sings: «We will live for a long time. But we'll never be old." I'm still thinking about retirement and the age limits in the world of work. What will the future bring? Good old age is no longer linked to peace, tranquillity and retirement. Now we're talking about active ageing, social activity and greater control over your own life. Then we also have to talk about working life. Although employment among seniors has increased significantly since 2001, there is still a high potential for increased occupational activity among seniors. As a politician, I've become involved in the senior cause as well as in the women's case, because both of them are about inclusion, and they kind of stick together. Women have fought for many years for their right to work. Now many of those who went ahead of us in the women's fight are still fighting, just to be able to continue in working and social life despite age. They fight with men who push 50, and they fight an important battle. The obstacles are primarily about our attitudes and our attachment to wanting to put people in booths, and not least that we discriminate on the basis of age. When I round 50 years in 2030, there will be a shortage of labour in several industries, especially in health and care. It requires that more people continue to work longer. Senior Policy Centres have shown that after the age of 50, an increase in employment of 12 months is estimated to have a socio-economic gain of between 35 and 40 billion. kr. We can't shut women and seniors out of work, because it's a waste of resources we can't afford. The lack of health professionals and nurses can be solved by women working more full time and by increasing their retirement age by some years. Age is not a characteristic of itself, and there may be great variations within age groups. Brain research has shown that a brain of 30 years can be as functional as a brain of 70 years. In the past, we didn't know this, but we assumed something else. Age is simply not a good indicator of function, and a 30-year-old can be as competent or incompetent as a 70-year-old. It should be a management responsibility to make sure that those who do not do their job either get help to do it or get on with it. One should not need age limits to lead. We have to stop talking about that competence is related to age. Too many people today view 67 years as the end point of working life – many unfortunately even earlier. As a society we can't afford this, and age can no longer be seen as the phase before the end of life, because aging is part of life itself. We're going to live our whole lives, and we're going to have to participate. The pension system and our welfare system are not designed to support the rest between 30 and 60 years. It is also not good for the individual who is being pushed out of work. If we're going to make sure that those who are sick and unable to participate in the labour market get a decent old age, we're going to depend on them to contribute more between 60 and 80 years. We have to create an age-friendly society where everyone can contribute their resources throughout their lives. The new pension legislation has been important to strengthen the working line and to motivate individuals to work longer. A longer work life for individuals takes place with access to good skills development and a good working environment. The country has taken several initiatives for different training courses, where enterprises contribute resources, while each invests time and effort. The fund has been modernised so that good adults too can take advantage of the benefits and update their knowledge through a long professional life. The time when we've been trained to go into work is over, and the future will be more about learning throughout our lives. In this way, one will be able to maintain and further develop the labour force in line with the needs of society. We need to promote a society where everyone can participate, regardless of age, a society where competence counts more than the years of life, where people have the opportunity to contribute, update and live their entire lives. Unfortunately, age limits have a normative force and affect our general perception of what is appropriate retirement age. It's time to surf the wave of old age, because it's the one who's going to bring us into the welfare community of the future, but then age can no longer be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1597	It is mentioned that some have been local politicians, and very much of the elderly care actually happens out there in the municipalities, every single day. Today, more than 600 people in their own homes are waiting in hospital, more than 800 are in short-stay and waiting in long-term accommodation, and more than 300 are waiting for short-stay stays. Then we have untreated applications in the municipalities as well, where someone has probably applied because the need for hospitalization is present. It is important to have a goal that older people should stay at home as long as possible. But it must not be that you live at home just because there is no economy in the municipality to get at a higher level of care. We have good home services, mostly, in all municipalities around Norway. It is a challenge — it was also mentioned here — to form teams so that the elderly recognize those who are coming, and not to repeat their story about what is important in everyday life. When it comes to food and nutrition, there are many municipalities that deliver food to the elderly, and there are also some municipalities that have user representatives, elders' representatives, slightly different names, who write letters to everyone and tell them what opportunities exist in the municipality when you get up to a certain age, and what services you can order, among other things. food from different kitchens – for nutrition is very important. What may be a big challenge in municipalities is that there are very many older people who are alone. When you're alone, you might feel good and safe, but many people who are alone don't have relatives and networks around them either. Then the challenge starts to get a little bit bigger. Now I'm talking about those who are up at a certain age, and not all their lives, but this is about how we're going to build an old age care together in the future that's safe and good for all those who get older, so that you don't worry about getting older, and those who end up alone don't worry too much. We need to do something about the waiting lists of nursing homes, furnished dwellings and nursing homes for the older part of the population. It cannot be the case that there are long, long waiting lists, among other things. in nursing homes and you also do not have nursing homes. That's the reality out there. The reality is also that you build new hospitals, and then you put down the old ones, which are no longer modern. That means you don't get the net supply of nursing homes, and you don't really get to meet the time we've started on where there are more and more elderly people who need help. You can look at the nursing homes, once you get in and get a long-term place. Nutrition is said to be very important – it is very important that the elderly get food and nutrition. But I think you also have to go into how we carry out the meals in the nursing homes, because very many people are so sick that they are bedridden and get food on the night table, and if you are tired and perhaps have started to see bad etc., it may be that the appetite increases if you get some help around the meal. Just conversation and help to eat will perhaps improve the problems of nutrition for very many. Some municipalities carry out the reduction of food losses in their nursing homes. I think that's nice, but maybe you're going to focus more on the older people actually getting the food they're serving, so that they get smaller through it. A big challenge, regardless of the party, is how, in the years to come, we're going to get the care of the elderly, as someone says, to shine. Then it might have to be taken a little bit bigger than those that've been taken so far, whether they're called Life all their life or we have other approaches to it. This is important for the sitting government, it's been important for the previous government, and it's going to be important for the next government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1615	I think the previous speeches ended well. What I want to say is that the intention and the desire for everyone is that everyone should live as long as possible, as best they can. I think we should conclude with that. So it's called that the name doesn't blush anyone. But it seems that the name for some is something more important than for others. I have read the reason why the municipality of Kinn received the Life Prize in 2020. That's a good reason. I'm a little surprised that the representative Svardal Bøe highlights one point, that they've got a community coordinator. It tells me that there may be a little bit less action-oriented, a little more bureaucratic, when we are so concerned about the names of the reforms. The municipalities need the right of self-determination, as the representative Myrvold also said, and they need money. They don't just need orders, and they don't just need good thoughts. Then there's a point the council didn't mention, that's on the Hurdal platform, that I want to stay at half a minute. That's what it says that we're going to have one door to municipal services. For the last 14 days, I've moved for my grandmother. She broke the pelvis at the age of 97 and entered the nursing home. She was taken care of well, but the fact that she was going to bring all the things with her demanded that I take a phone call to the service office, I had to pick up a phone to the social alarm centre, I had to talk to the help center and the home hospital, and then I had to help my mother report the move. It's pretty demanding to get old, and as a society, we too have to do something about it. I think we'll deal with all the good that's being said here, if we don't get too attached to the vocabulary. It's a municipal economy that's going to be in place. New farm nursing home in Sandefjord was mentioned. They have a very nice chef and very good items. What is important is that the municipalities have to be able to have a kitchen. Municipalities must be able to have a kitchen and a building up of their old-age care that is actually adapted to the municipality. Sandefjord is the largest municipality in Westfold and one of the largest in the country and is very centralized in the case of hospitals. It's all right for Sandefjord, because it wants Sandefjord. In Larvik, which is a significantly larger, long-term municipality, to the extent that the municipalities of Vestfold are long-distance, decentralised nursing homes have been chosen. It's because those who are in a nursing home can be closer to their relatives. It is essential that the municipalities themselves be allowed to decide. Otherwise, the Council of State has explained well what the government will do. We need to strengthen the local economy, we need to increase basic manpower, and we need to have an older policy based on overall quality objectives instead of stopping time. Among other things, we're going to get an organisation out in the municipalities, through increased resources and self-determination, which gives firm teams around the individual patient. That's what ensures a long and good run and life for the older.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1634	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate. It's an important topic. We're getting older in our country, we've already passed one million pensioners, and this is a challenge that we have to solve. I would like to see more parties and more representatives taking part in this debate, which concerns a lot of people in our country. When we talk about older people, there are people who can and will contribute to society, either by contributing through working life and by being able to stand longer in work, or by being able to participate in meaningful activities such as voluntary work. That is why we need to create a more age-friendly society, just to make sure that older people are also seen as valuable contributors to society. So the debate says that much of what happens in the care of the elderly is happening in the municipalities, and that's quite right. That's why Life's whole life reform is so important, because it builds some national frameworks, for example. with support apparatus and with a grant scheme that can be used for this, because it is precisely the municipalities that have a lot of responsibility. But what's so important about this reform is that it takes what works in the municipalities, puts it into a system and helps municipalities learn from each other. So there's no doubt that economics is a factor that matters, and I could like to go into a debate with the representative Red on local economy. But the $2.50. kr that has been granted is not earmarked for parental care. This can be applied by the municipalities to what they want. When we ran, we made sure that several municipalities came out of ROBEK, and we also made sure to strengthen the municipal economy, which has given the municipalities more space for action. When I hear the government parties talk about living the whole life reform, it seems like it's about scraping a little bit of the reform and choosing to scrape some of the ideas around it because it's not their own ideas. I think that's a little sad, because the most important thing here is to be the starting point for patients and how we contribute to a good ageing policy and good care for the elderly in the municipalities. The right-hand side is still going to focus on this area. We want to pursue a policy that contributes to an active, safe and worthy old age, and where we actually contribute to creating a more age-friendly society and giving people the opportunity to, for example, longer working life. It was a pity, therefore, that the proposal we made to increase the age limit from 70 to 72 years, which would have allowed those who could and would have contributed, to continue to work, was withdrawn by the government. So life throughout life is important, and we're going to follow up on the reform further. It is not just about social coordinators or grant schemes, but it is actually an incredibly important part for municipalities to be able to carry out activities and communities that ultimately contribute to better care for the elderly and a more age-friendly society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1657	I would also like to thank for a good debate and thank the interpellant, who gave me the opportunity to talk more about the follow-up to the Life-Reform, but also about the Hurdal platform's efforts in the elderly and the way we intend to implement it in the Støre-Registration. Age is wealth and disease. These were the words of King Harald when he visited the municipality of Malvik, the rapporteur, Ingrid Aune. In Malvik they have built hospitals and cultural houses – continuously. There's a bridge on the second floor, where you can fold into a bed, or get with a wheelchair or a scooter to the cultural offer. There are activities offered twice a week, such as physical activity, trim, training or theatre, two places in the municipality – it is a decentralised municipality – for all over 60 years. They also offer localisation technology, or GPS, which the previous red-green government provided was a legal tool to be able to use to protect the elderly with dementia. They offer all citizens over 60 years of age about the type of hand-held technology, regardless of diagnosis. On 17 November, Health and the Ministry of Care distributed the Life Prize at the Life Conference. It didn't go to Kinn this year, it was last year – no, now I said this year and last year, and then we've come to a new year. But by 2021 it was distributed to the Municipality of Oslo, and the reason for the jury was that Oslo is working very systematically and well to create more social meeting places. Oslo also has offers of the dining friend in collaboration with the volunteering of older residents, who can then eat the food they receive from the municipality, along with some. And here we know, among others. from the examinations carried out, that eating with someone leads to scraping the sauce from the plate, while getting the food that you are going to prepare yourself and eat alone, often leads to a warehouse with the elderly who increases weekly. We intend to strengthen the care of the elderly in our time of government, and I would almost say that it is strawman argumentation to incite words like «to scrape». It is only the representative Svardal Bøe who has spoken about, no Labour Party representatives, in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1668	Then your case no. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1686	Should Norway, as a nation, be able to facilitate existing and new industries and contribute actively and effectively to the green shift, it is necessary to adapt and develop the instrument. Here I am thinking in particular of proactive work in the regions to develop attractive areas for the localization of industry. Siva has a great potential to play an important role in that work. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries established Process21 and the mandate was to develop a strategy for a competitive and sustainable process industry in Norway in 2050 and beyond. In this work, it is made clear that host making activities are about being an attractive location for business. The process21 identifies a number of factors that are defined as a competitive advantage when attracting and developing the industry of the future and also makes a division of responsibilities between the different levels of government in Norway visible. It is particularly important that a local and regional capacity to proactively develop an attractive alternative to industrial location. To a large extent, this will be about, among other things. the organisation of industrial and industrial land, including associated infrastructure, renewable energy in process management infrastructure, etc. In order for a municipality or region to be able to offer operators location, a regulation and clearance of the area must be made, which means that municipalities receive significant upfront costs. It will be several years before one can be sure to obtain a refund. Even for municipalities with areas that make it possible to undertake such projects, the economic priority will nevertheless make it difficult to throw itself at it. This makes it difficult to facilitate an increased level of industrial development and at the desired pace. In the winter of 2021, Norsk Hydro, Equinor and Panasonic went out and asked for offers on a larger plot for a possible future battery production. In addition to 80 municipalities, a little over 100 alternatives were presented. It is known that for many of the options, there were no land acquisitions, regulatory plans, impact assessments, etc. This showed, however, that Norwegian municipalities want to facilitate future industry, but realizing plans is a challenge. In order for Norwegian municipalities and local communities to facilitate future industrial development, it is necessary to assist the municipalities in this work, in particular with risk-absorbing through participation in such development. In June last year, several power operators sent together a letter to the Business Committee and the Energy and Environment Committee proposing to strengthen Norway as a Green Industry Host Nation. The proposal is about what can be done in concrete terms in order to establish a self-funding system where, through Siva, the State takes the risk by clarifying the industrial areas, including plant contributions and the necessary investments to clear up the land. In the 1980s and 1990s, Siva carried out important expansions of industrial facilities leased out to industry. The positive short-term and long-term effect this has had on nutrition development in many places, such as Narvik, Harstad, Sandness Lake, Namsos, Malm, and Verdal cannot be overestimated either. I was a little anxious and excited to read the Hurdal platform and that the government would strengthen Siva, for example. by assessing the liability of the company for the spraying of industrial premises. It's promising words from a government that hasn't always followed business. One possible model is that Siva Eiendom, by adjusting its mandate, is given the task of contributing together with Norwegian municipalities to the development of attractive industrial facilities, both land, infrastructure and other necessary factors, in order to form, in aggregate, an alternative location with a high hosting activity. But there are of course more models here. That's why I'm excited about what the Council of State answers to my question: what does it mean when the government wants to strengthen Siva, and what does he think about setting up a new programme to develop business and industry in municipalities that need a small handshake in order to offer the necessary space for tomorrow's industrial adventure?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1703	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic, for which I know that the interpellant also has a strong commitment to. Norway, with our world-leading competence and our natural resources, has enormous opportunities if we seize them. The government has strong ambitions and clear objectives that Norway should be an industrial driver even in a renewable future, when oil and gas revenues will gradually become less dominant. That's why the government has said very clearly, from the moment we joined, that we want to be involved in speeding up new industrial projects throughout Norway. Together with business, we need to cut emissions, create more jobs, increase investment in the mainland and, above all, increase exports. This is possible together, and it will also contribute strongly to financing our common well-being in the future. So the Hurdals platform says that the state is going to engage more, and that we're going to deploy the entire industrial policy toolbox. This means, among other things: that we contribute capital and other risk relief where necessary to trigger sustainable investment, sustainable production and new, profitable jobs. This is why the government is also working on the creation of new green value chains, export industries in Norway, such as the United Kingdom. carbon capture and storage, battery production and hydrogen. Good access to capital, land, infrastructure, energy supply, test facilities and, above all, links to relevant environments of expertise and networks are crucial if we are to succeed in these ambitions. Infrastructure, understood as good industrial and commercial premises with access to electricity, road, track or quay facilities, is crucial for industry. This is precisely why it is a separate point on the preparation of industrial sites in our government statement. For many companies throughout Norway and not least industrial environments around our country, the property activities of the state-owned company Siva, the Society for Industrial Growth, have played an important role for many years. Through its property activities, Siva is an important instrument for the development of businesses and business and knowledge environments throughout the country. The investment in the properties of Sivas shall contribute to lowering the barriers to the establishment of new industries and industrial environments where the usual market mechanisms make this particularly demanding, including for major industrial property projects. Therefore, Siva plays an important role in many places already in the country, and not least the company has a particular responsibility to promote growth in the districts. In order to promote this, county councils also have an important role to play as sponsors of Siva. Today, Siva has a number of industrial buildings and innovation buildings across the country. The company manages and develops a property portfolio with a total value of 4.8 billion. kr, where over 40 pst. are made up of industrial buildings. By 2020, Siva completed the construction of a new industrial building in Northern Ireland, to provide an example. In the Hurdal platform, the government points to the link between infrastructure and industrial construction and puts this in context with the expertise and experience of Siva in the development and organisation of industrial sites throughout the country. The preparation of industrial sites will involve cooperation and involvement with both regional and local forces in each municipality. With that in mind, I have asked Siva to make an assessment of how best to organise work on the preparation of industrial premises. I look forward to returning to Stortinget in an appropriate manner once this assessment has been made. There are many things that need to be put in place to succeed with a green industry that can assert itself in global competition and at the very top of the world. One of them is a good and effective tool, and the functions of today's Siva play an important role in this whole. At the same time, we also have a responsibility for constantly looking for development and improvement opportunities, so that we have an instrument that works closely and actively with industry and business, for the best of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1722	I thank you for the answer so far. Knowing what works best in the different regions is not always easy to fully understand. Therefore, it is important that the regions have the opportunity to report back on issues that can separate them. In Norway, geography and demography can represent far different challenges from region to region. If it had been up to the Left and possibly the partner of the Workers' Party in the government, the county council would probably have had a greater responsibility for Siva per day. It would have given each region an opportunity to focus on their own challenges and opportunities and on how to address them. It is also in line with the report of the Hagen Committee from 2018 on the decentralisation of tasks from the state to the county municipalities. As we know, the contracting authority responsible for the Sivas incubation scheme and business environment programme was transferred to the eleven new counties to strengthen the regional governance of industrial development. It was a small – but important – grip, for the regions themselves are best aware of regional needs and assumptions. This is also true of the development of industrial areas and local industrial development. And that the regions themselves can take much more of the grips that are exciting in terms of both challenges and opportunities, we see that we have great opportunities to rigge based on the fact that the counties have increased, and can more fully assume the responsibilities of contracting entities for more programmes. I have to admit that the government's eagerness to break up several of the new regions, and the fact that they in addition grant hundreds of millions of dollars for that purpose, throws a dark shadow across that debate. Because while I think that the new regions could have been at the root of creating a new programme that focuses on land development and industrialisation, I understand that the way the government now wants to limit the power of the regions will make this more difficult. That the government will spend millions of dollars breaking up the new regions, while we're talking about how to get the regions to take on more responsibility, becomes a paradox for me. I allow myself to quote from the report of the Hagen Committee: ‘The Committee considers that the new counties have a functionality and size that facilitates greater responsibility for the policy area for county municipalities. The regional reform means that the state of the competitive area is growing and that the management of instruments should be more likely to be added to the regional level. The Committee therefore considers that alternative ways of organising the instrument should be provided for.’ Although I am not going to raise a debate on regional reform, it would have been interesting to hear what the Minister of Industry thinks that county municipalities should be able to have the contracting authority responsible for a new Siva programme – or the possibility of weakening the possibility of a reversal going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1740	If we're to succeed in the enormous problems that we have in front of us, which are perhaps the biggest change in Norwegian business ever, we need all forces to move in the same direction. Then we need the municipalities to be on track, we need the regions and the states to be on track, we need the state to set up, and we need our instruments to be well rigged for the decade we're in, and meet the needs of business. After joining as Minister of Industry, I set a goal that I would visit 100 companies throughout Norway by Christmas. The fasite became 120 companies, and I met everything from small startups to heavy industrial locomotives, everything from family-owned companies to listed companies and entrepreneurs. I asked the companies two questions. Point 1: How can the state and the municipalities, together with the regions and the business community, play teams to accelerate the green shift? And point 2: What low - hanging fruits do you see? We got an incredible amount of good recordings. It testifies to a business life that's on, that's creative, that has ideas, and that wants to take the green changed from word to action, but that also needs more help to get it to. That's why we've started a number of projects and we'll come up with more initiatives for the Storting to just make sure that we're playing along, and that all of our instruments are moving in the same direction. This means, among other things: that we are looking at the whole of our tool to see if it is best suited to the challenges and opportunities that our business is actually facing. We are currently looking at One way in, which is to make it easier for businesses to get in touch with the right tool, and we are looking at how the various existing actors can best be used to promote the objectives of our business policy: increasing investment in the mainland, increasing exports, creating more jobs and cutting greenhouse gases with both hands. In that work, we also look at how Siva can best be arranged. The government of Solberg provided for a larger division of tasks, where the programme activities of Siva were proposed to Innovation Norway. That's what our government asked Stortinget for us to take a pause of thought around, just because we want to see the tools in context and how we can judge them in the best possible way so that we can adapt to the world we live in, and the opportunities and challenges our business faces. We look forward to coming back to Stortinget with an assessment of this and other questions when we get to work on it, and when we are ready to present a review. Then, as I said, we have asked Siva to look at how they can take on greater responsibilities and tasks in the preparation of green industrial spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1753	Then there will be a pause in the debate until after the vote at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1765	The size is then ready to go to voting on the matter no. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1777	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus proposal No 5, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus proposal No 6, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and Red proposal No 7, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Aker Hospital is planned and built on the basis that Aker Hospital will become a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen.’ Red and Left have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1809	Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a new investigation and review of the hospital options for the Oslo region, including the preservation of Ullevål hospitals.’ The Left and the Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1826	Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Aker Hospital is soon to become a fully-fledged local hospital for all parts of Groruddalen.’ The Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats, the Left and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1843	Proposal No. 1-4, from the Progress Party, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to launch an investigation into alternative development options for Oslo University Hospitals and come back to Stortinget with proposals for setting up an investigation into the location options.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the closure of Ullevål Hospital and not to start the sale of Ullevål.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to allow the demolition of existing functional building stock at Oslo University Hospital.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks that Gaustad Hospital be maintained as a treatment institution for patients in mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment, and that plans to prevent the use of the hospital and hospital areas for this patient group be stopped.’ The Left and the Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1885	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Patient Focus have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1904	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposed no. 4-8, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red Proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to return to the revised national budget for 2022 with proposals to introduce free dental treatment for persons aged 19 to 21 and to introduce half the price of dental treatment for persons aged 22 to 25’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1928	Proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the future, the government is asking for more price-regulating rates of dental benefit, so that the grant follows price developments.’ The Left, the Environment Party The Green and Patient Focus have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1945	Proposal No. 4-6, from Red. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present a dental reform for the Storting, which includes a concrete plan for phase-in of a universally available dental service over four years, where teeth are treated as part of the body and dental services are treated in the same way as other health services, for example through a self-promotion scheme.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the public dental service by gradually including new groups and extending the funding of dental care by the public interest.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to reverse the deterioration in the system for covering expenditure on dental regulation for children and young people and to strengthen the social welfare system for people in need of orthodontics.’ The Green and Patient Focus Environment Party has already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1974	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider measures that can help prevent the centralisation and closure of public dental clinics, including addressing the need for measures that could increase recruitment in professional and geographical areas where it is currently difficult to obtain qualified personnel. In this context, the government is also asked to introduce measures relating to the purchase of dental clinics by major chains.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the competence of dental nurses can be more widely used for prevention and for solving dental-related tasks, e.g. in nursing homes and in nursing homes.’ The Green and Patient Focus Environment Party has already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e1999	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the dental reform to equalise dental services with other health services contains measures to ensure that increased public funding goes to the health service as a whole, including the assessment of a ceiling on publicly funded dental health.’ The patient focus has alerted support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2023	The Environment Party The Green and Patient Focus have warned that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2042	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus proposal No 4, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for immediate suspension of all sales of hospital property currently used for mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, pending a public inquiry related to the need for and future organisation of hospital treatment for patients in mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment.’ The Left and the Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2068	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to address the need for long-term places in the field of mental health protection, with particular attention to the need for hospital facilities for patients judged to be subject to mandatory mental health protection.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking to evaluate the funding model for mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment and the funding model for new hospital buildings, which makes it attractive for health businesses to sell the land currently used for mental health protection to finance new hospital buildings.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2092	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Socialist Left Party, Red and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a wide range of professionals to assess the benefits and disadvantages of a large-scale co-location of mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment with somatic care in the major hospitals.’ The Left and the Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2116	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Green Party and the Patient Focus have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2135	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2140	This concerns proposal No. 1 from the Christian People's Party, that is, a loose proposal. It sounds like this: ‘The government is asking, in the light of the National Audit Office’s investigation, for rapid follow-up to the recommendations of NOU 2021: 11 Self-government is well-groomed, to ensure real equality and to prevent unfortunate differences between municipalities in the service and relief provision of persons with disabilities.’ I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour because the operative part is to follow this up quickly. The setting itself is divided into a majority, a large minority and a small minority. So following up the recommendation is very uncertain. Because I interpret it as asking for a rapid follow-up from the government, I would recommend our group to vote in favour – i.e. for the fastest possible follow-up of the whole NOU, regardless of what you land on in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2150	During the debate, Mr Vervik Bollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in the light of the National Audit Office’s investigation, for rapid follow-up to the recommendations of NOU 2021: 11 Self-government is well-groomed, to ensure real equality and to prevent unfortunate differences between municipalities in the service and relief provision of persons with disabilities.’ Right, Progress Party, Left, Red and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2179	Continued with handling of
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2195	We go back to case no. 6th@item: inlistbox The first speaker is Solveig Vitanza.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2200	I think it's an important theme the representative of Skelstad is addressing in the interpellation. As the Hurdal platform points out, our government has clear targets of getting more jobs, creating activity across the country, increasing exports and cutting greenhouse gas emissions. We will do this by pursuing an active and forward-looking industrial policy. This means that the government needs a powerful toolbox there, among other things. the instrumentation plays an important role. The industrial tool consists of different instruments and actors that together contribute to solving different problems. Siva facilitates innovation through the development and financing of national innovation and industrial development infrastructures. Siva has a special responsibility to promote growth in districts. Through its property activities, Siva is an important instrument for the development of businesses and business and knowledge environments throughout the country. I myself have had the pleasure of working at two different knowledge parks where Siva has been one of the owners, and I have learned how the community contributes to cooperation and exchange of knowledge and innovation. In its last draft budget, the Solberg Government and the Minister for Industry of the Left proposed cutting the allocations for the cluster programme and the incubation programme, as well as breaking up the activities of Siva. This was also not the first time the Solberg government proposed to cut Siva. The left now calls for a plan, but there was no credible plan on how to remove a number of tasks and fragmentation of Siva, as the Left started in government, would strengthen Norwegian innovation and business development. Many of these took strongly against, for example. with concerns that the proposal would lead to fewer industrial start-ups. It is striking that the party now, in opposition, has finally got its eye on the important role Siva plays in Norwegian innovation and industrial development. The analysis by the Statistical Centre finds the positive effects of the Sivas incubator programme and business environment programme on income, number of employees, value creation and productivity. I would also like to refer to the letter from the Norwegian Business Administration that we received now, in connection with this interpellation debate. They underline the importance of Siva's participation in the business environment and its continuation. They indicate that Siva knows the business environment well, and that there is a link that gives positive results for both parties. Our government is clear that Norway should also be an industrial driver in a renewable future. Norwegian enterprises must have good, predictable and stable framework conditions that facilitate investment and further growth. In this context, we also need to review the whole of the economic instrument. This was the Council of State in the past. This is done with a view to simplifying, making available, adapting and strengthening the mechanisms to help Norwegian businesses grow and develop in line with future challenges and opportunities. This review will, of course, take place in close dialogue and in partnership with companies, trustees, counties and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2219	Right will thank the interpellant for lifting an interesting and important case. We share the idea that Norway's potential is great, and that there are many possibilities. I am – perhaps not surprising – somewhat more skeptical to the Minister of Industry to let the state take over in areas where private everything delivers well. What we need in the field of interpellant promises is to make it easier for companies to navigate faster to create forward-looking jobs. I have not counted how many times both entrepreneurs and start-ups have reported that the tool tool is a young and difficult to deal with. The tool tool must help create jobs and values. Here, Siva has an important role to play, and especially for the business community in the districts. I'm excited about what a review of the tool tool will contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2228	Let me take this opportunity to thank the representative of Skkelstad for promoting this interpellation and thus invite the Stortinget to a slightly wider debate on Siva – about what it is and what it will be in the future. It's also a good idea to draw some lines backwards if you're going to try to understand the future. There is no doubt that Siva has been exposed to a very difficult time in the last few years. The company, which is the only one within the instrument, has been a throw ball in the political system. It's guaranteed that you can do things better, smarter, simpler and cheaper, too, in the instrumentation, but pulling out one actor without even looking at the other components or actors would not lead to a better and more user-friendly tool. This was first tried by the government in connection with the state budget for 2021. Then the Progress Party stopped the changes. Then they tried again in the revised budget for 2021. We also stopped the changes, and the government promised that they would not resubmit the proposal until a comprehensive review of the instrument was presented. Nevertheless, the Solberg government proposed exactly the same in its draft budget for 2022. Fortunately, the Støre government stopped the proposal in the additional number, and for that the government deserves to boast. Often it is that when a government proposes changes, it is quite natural that you hear most from those who are negative and who want to preserve it. Not least the media are better at finding those who rage or protest. But in most of these cases, you can also hear from the followers, those who in a sober and rational way are trying to argue for these changes. In the cases of Siva in recent years, there were no such attempts to explain or rationalise the proposed changes. There was no one who supported the government – not in the Storting, not in real life, and at least those who are in contact with the industrial tool. What they told us was that in the jungle of actions, programs and actors, there was one company it was simple and unbureaucratic to deal with, and it was Siva. You can wonder why the Solberg government repeatedly tried to rib Siva for tasks when no one had asked for it. The probability is quite high that the initiative came from those we never see at Stortinget, namely from offices and bureaucracy – perhaps also in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, certainly from the Ministry of Finance. I'm not going to say that this happens just because Siva is located outside Ring 3, even outside of the East, but that it plays out as one of many factors, I think. We've seen the same thing with Investinor before. Agents that have main seats in Tread layers can work, too. Even those who have a main seat in the West or North Norway can work. Not everything must be located around the big business and department for it to work – perhaps on the contrary. It brings me to the interpellant's attitude in many questions, and I suspect that it is also behind this discussion here. While I believe the struggle for competence and capital goes between the regions, or in particular the regional cities on the one hand and Oslo on the other, the representative Skkelstad believes that the same fight is best fought between Steinkjer and Trondheim. I believe that is a derailment. Skelstad, which soon appears to be the country's only defender of regional reform, also mentions the regions in this interpellation. I think you should be careful to split up both professional environments and not least competitive venues. Most companies in Norway are fighting in the European Championship or perhaps even in the World Cup, not in the regional championship. We need to ensure that the best projects and companies are supported, regardless of where they are located. It is going to be a far more important question for AS Norway than the question of whether the regions or states have enough to do. At least on my priority list it comes down quite a bit. The interpellant tries to bring in scarcity of nutrient land in the municipalities in this case. It's possible Siva can play a role there beyond what they do today. However, those who can certainly do something about it are the local politicians, so I recommend Skjelstad to contact its local government members around the country and get them to produce the yes-stamp. Finally, I would like to recommend Skelstad to turn around and support the progressive proposal of the Advance Party to wing clipping the State Manager. This would certainly lead to more nutrient land in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2251	I see that I have here a little unanswered in an internal discussion between representatives Bjørnstad and Skjelstad about internal conditions in Trøndelag. I don't intend to go into it, but I want to stick to what's the main theme of the interpellation, namely this difficult industrial shift that we are now facing, and that requires a lot on many fronts, which was also the subject of the Council of State: how can we, as part of this, also help to develop attractive and good areas for the localization of industry, after a comprehensive strategy that is good both for regions around the country and for the nation as a whole. There is a required work and theme. This has been one of the arguments put forward by the Left to implement a major local and regional reform, to get larger municipalities and larger regions that have the capacity to tackle this work, and I still believe that the preferred solution is number one. One sees it, among others. in my country, Westland, which has really taken up this after a comprehensive plan, with the Green region of Westland, which is also about laying down the great master plan for what area one needs for green industrial development, and connecting it with nutritionists and with access to power – which is an important image in this – and other things. It's an important solution. But now we're not going to have big and strong municipalities with enough resources around the country, and then we're going to have to find practical ways to move on. The theme that the representative Skelstad then raised, with the role of Siva, I think is important, and it's a solution when we don't now have the structure that we might ideally have, with larger and stronger municipalities that can take leadership across the whole coast of this role. I would also like to say, on the basis of that, that I am pleased with the answer given by the Minister of Industry. I thought it was constructive and positive, both with regard to the soundness of how one meets these challenges, and that, as far as I understand, it has now given a mission to Siva to clarify the role associated with the development of new green industrial areas. This is not as simple as the representative Bjørnstad from the Progress Party says, that this is just about saying yes to everything, and that everyone should say yes to everything everywhere. It doesn't give you any good solutions either. We are in the midst of a climate crisis, but we are also in the midst of a natural crisis. Managing our land in a smart way – where we don't get loose on pristine nature unnecessarily, but have a focused idea of what area we are developing – is extremely important. So saying that the municipality is going to say yes to everything, put the state aside and just run away as freely as possible everywhere, is not the answer to this either. We need a much more strategic approach to how we develop industrial and industrial areas. It must also be seen in connection with the application of force. Network development is important in many parts of the country, and it will also be possible to find many places where this can be well coordinated with the use of mass from large infrastructure projects in a sensible way. There is now a view in the mountain region, one sees it in my municipality of town and in the neighbouring region associated with the City of the Ship Tunnel, and one will see many other places where one can beat two flies in a taste; one can get used mass from large construction projects in a reasonable way and at the same time develop the new green industrial areas to come. So this is an important debate. And depending on where we now stand in Norway with municipal and regional structures, and the need for a clear engine many places in the country, we're going to solve the area needs associated with the green shift. So I'm going to say that I'm happy with the signals the council gives here, that we're some about the problem, and that Siva's got a mission, and I'm looking for these issues to come to the Storting quickly, so that we can get the necessary, quick follow-up of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2268	First I want to say that I think it was a positive input from the Minister of Industry. I had not expected him to be more concrete than what he was, and I thought it was positive tones. So it's like Siva's something else. I have grown up in a municipality that has had a lot of access to Siva through the conversion of one-sided industry, which we had until 1990. We had Siva with us on team for industrial construction and planning. There is not necessarily a parallel to how one does it in terms of capital access, even though I want it to a greater extent than what was expressed here in one of the contributions from the Workers' Party, which believes that there is such a big difference in thinking Innovation Norway. I think there's several ways to think about this. I think, to the extent that it makes sense, as the Minister of Industry said, that a person spends some time watching how to rig this. Then it's not like the representative Bjørnstad is in. What we probably agree on is that we should distribute power throughout the country, and also internally in the regions. I think that is also quite important. But what's the challenge for the future to create even more industrial growth is, first of all, the area, but the second is to have level competence that sits in the municipalities, regardless of size. There is much more demanding today than when Siva entered the 1970s – there is much more demanding with today’s type of legislation, including in the youth mentioned by others. That's why it's necessary to look at how a rigger Siva now to manage to lift this. So I've made a point that I think there are some possibilities in letting parts of the regions, or the regions themselves, get a larger portfolio, because I think the promise that needs to be is so powerful, and that's absolutely necessary to get the new industry in place. We are now just at the foot of a new industrial journey, which will be much greener than when Norway was rebuilt after the war. This will be different. That's why it'll be important how we'll straighten this out in the future, and I choose to interpret what the Council of State said, positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2279	As I said, Norway is facing some phenomenal problems this decade, with more jobs, cutting greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst, increasing exports outside oil and gas by 50 pst. and increase investment in the mainland economy. The success of the four objectives will largely determine the success of Norway over the next 50 years. So there's no small task we have, but Norway may have the best assumptions in the world to succeed in this. But then an active policy is required, pointing out a direction in which private capital, private entrepreneurs and private creative souls play together with the municipalities, with the counties, the regions and the state on a common goal, among other things. green industrial growth. That's why this government doesn't think this is just going to take care of itself, or that the market forces are going to fix the problem. We need partnership, and we need the state to contribute. That's also why we're willing to use all the tools we have in our toolbox, and that's why we're looking at new tools for our toolbox. I want to pursue an active industrial policy. We have to set up. We also have to make demands. We're going to have expectations of emission cuts. We're going to have expectations of value creation at home. We need to have expectations of safe and good jobs across our country. This work includes the further development of Siva and the other instrument actors. Not least in the case of Siva, it's about putting into practice the expertise that Siva has when we're about to facilitate the new green industry adventures. I look forward to coming back to Stortinget in an appropriate way about the good question that interpellanten raises, about the role of Siva in the preparation of industrial sites. Then I'd say we have a pretty bad time. I'm impatient and don't have a goal that we're going to settle ourselves in terms of what this is going to look like. It's already done quite a lot of work. We're in dialogue with the instrument actors. We've visited a lot of companies, asked where the shoe prints, and where there are gaps between what companies need, and the state, the municipalities and the counties set up. I am concerned that we will deliver results, and therefore we need to have several thoughts in our head at the same time. One is, of course, to look at what is the ideal organisation of our instrument, but more important than that is the concrete policy that is pursued every single day. That is why I am proud that the government in the supplementary proposal proposed, and got an impact on, a modified funding model through our instruments, such as, among other things. can mobilise 3 billion. kr more in green investment in Norway this year than last year. Three billion. NOK is a lot of money until the green shift. That is why I am proud that we have come very far in working with one door to the tool tool. It's important to the companies. I'm glad that the Minister of Oil and Energy is actively working on power. It is important that we get to the new industrial initiatives. I can promise the Storting that there will be many more initiatives from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-18.ana.ud386e2292	The debate on substance is then closed. 6ths over. This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
