ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e28	The called alternate of Rogaland, Tom Kalsås, is now taking the seat. An application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Per Olav Tyldum is submitted from 9 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Tomas Iver Hallem, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e53	Tomas Iver Hallem is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Kristjánsson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e60	On behalf of myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to harmonise the interest rates on the afterpayment of benefits and the recovery of fault payments from Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e65	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e70	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Morten Stordalen and myself to build a new E39-E136 Ålesund-Tresfjordbrua first.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e75	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e91	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Ola Borten Moe, Anne Beathe Kristiansen Twinnereim and Ingvild Kjerkol will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e100	After the Minister of Health announced that the government would weaken patients’ right to choose treatment for their own choice of treatment, there is a great deal of uncertainty in patients, relatives and health professionals. Parents of children with cerebral mating from all over the country and the children themselves are anxious that the intensive training of Barna’s Physiotherapy Centre in Bergen will again only be reserved for those who can pay for the expenses of their parents themselves. Drug addicts and their relatives despair that treatment institutions can disappear, and losing the right to choose treatment themselves will dramatically affect patients’ motivation for treatment. Employees and owners of private and non-profit institutions, with strong intentions to contribute to society by reducing waiting time and creating innovation and diversity in patient treatment provision, feel suspicious by the government. At a time when health cows are growing, the need for innovation and diversity in healthcare is enormous and we need all the good forces to ensure that patients receive the fastest and best treatment provided by the public, how can limiting patients' rights be one of the prime projects of the Minister of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e107	We do not intend to restrict patients' rights, but this government will terminate the authorisation system of free treatment, which was introduced by the blue-blue government in 2014. A mission has been given to regional health companies to prepare it from next year – 2023 – and it will require legal work from my department that we see will be presented to the Stortinget next year. It is also the task of regional health establishments to engage in dialogue with those suppliers which have specific offers and which are based on a need for patients in the area of admission for which regional health establishments are responsible to serve, to see if it can be continued through agreements. It is also part of the mission of regional health enterprises. But it should not be a surprise to the representative Troen that this is happening. This is an ideological priority of the previous government to give fairly liberal right of establishment to private treatment, but then through funding from the patient's local hospital. We've seen negative consequences of this. There is a system that has been evaluated and where the evaluation says that there has been no specific impact on waiting lists. There are also resource-intensive patients who choose to use these offers. We believe that cooperation with private individuals should be achieved through agreements between regional health companies and private treatment institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e114	I'm a little uncertain about whether the Council of State has been out there talking to patients and relatives, for example. in Barnas Physiotherapisten, Mestringshusene Tysnes, Mestringshusene Bolkesjø and several other places, when defining these as the resource-intensive patients. These are patients who have finally had the opportunity to choose freely where they want their treatment. In a previous response to me, the Council of State has said that free choice of treatment should actually be called freedom of establishment for private individuals, because the scheme does not rely on needs. When I visited Barnas' Physiotherapy Center last week, I met children with CP from all over the country who need exactly this intensive training. How can the Council of State say that these patients do not need and that these institutions do not provide what is needed in Norwegian healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e121	First of all, I've referred to an evaluation, I haven't characterized a single patient, so it'll be on the account of the representative Treen. With regard to that institution, Barna’s Physiotherapy Center, we had a meeting with them in the ministry as late as last week. They are of the institutions such as Health Vest, which is the regional health company that has them in its field of admission, now engage in dialogue to see if there may be a need to continue cooperation through an agreement – the framework for private use of the specialist healthcare service until the 2014 Right Privatisation Reform Free Treatment Choice in 2014. I have met several patients, including those who have unsolicited experience of free choice of treatment. I also hope that the representative Troeen will include that when someone refers to the individual patient's experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e130	There will be follow-up questions – first Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e135	So in the case of Barna's Physiotherapy Center, they have children from all over the country, so this little ideal institution has to make agreements with all health companies and not just Health West. But I hope it solves, so that these kids get to use this intensive exercise. However, while the government will liquidate free treatment options, saying that all good actors should be able to contact their health businesses and enter into their own agreements, the government will set up a zero-profit committee to phase out all private individuals in welfare. So what's right? Should the government provide private contracts through health businesses, or should they be phased out privately from health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e142	I can answer for my responsibilities. There has been cooperation between private and public health services since the dawn of time. All governments have had that model, but what is important is that this cooperation takes place on our common healthcare premises, and that it is based on needs. The ability of the Community to manage resources and meet all the needs of patients across the country must be at the heart of this. What we see is that the free choice of treatment actors have mainly established themselves in the central east region – with some exceptions – and have not contributed to the achievement of the objective of this government, namely to provide good and equivalent health services to all throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e149	Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e154	Now the Council of State repeats that in the case of patients who opt for free treatment, these services are practically not needed for these patients. I have also visited a lot of institutions and treatment sites that are not located in the central eastern part of the country, but which allow patients throughout the country to choose for themselves. Isn't the Council of State concerned that removing patients' freedom of choice can help us to get a more two-part health service and a greater social difference in health when only those who can afford it or those who are able to collect money for the treatment they want, who have the opportunity to choose? In my opinion, it will give rise to greater social differences in health. The free choice of treatment has contributed to a genuine freedom of choice for patients — treatment covered by the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e162	The patient’s freedom of hospital choice was introduced in 2001, and it allows all patients to choose a treatment site, both from the public hospitals and from the private sector that has an agreement with a regional health company. It's a patient's right that we're not going to do anything about. The authorisation system put in place by the Right and their majority partners in 2014 concerns a central authorisation system administered by Helfo, promised by regional health companies to provide care for all patients. Then comes the financing of the treatment each patient receives, from the patient's local hospital. I want to take an example: in connection with the Hospital Telemark, a free treatment choice actor was established in the field of mental health protection. This led to an outreach of 40 million people in the public hospital for mental health protection. kr annually.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e169	Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e174	I would remind the Council of State that all patients who receive treatment from the public through free choice of treatment are referred to that treatment of the public. And when patients are not treated in public, but in a free treatment choice actor, it is reasonable to say that it is the free treatment choice actor who is also paid for treatment. Helfo continues to approve suppliers on an ongoing basis, and patients start their treatment processes – which they themselves want, as they need, and for which public finances are paid. What will happen to patients who have started the course of treatment, and what will happen to the sites approved by Helfo? Many of them have five-year agreements. When the government will liquidate free treatment options, will these actors still be able to offer patients treatment beyond the approval period?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e181	This will require a change in the law. We're going to add that up to next year, and the Storting has to decide. Regional health businesses are responsible for patients wherever they are treated. One of the things that worries me, and I'm a little surprised that the Right and the Representative Troeen don't care about the same, are patients who have been treated by a free treatment choice actor, where the actor has just dropped off. Seven patients in Westfold wrote an anonymous reading article — there were patients in the field of drugs and mental health protection. They lost the treatment offer because the private free treatment choice actor was unable to meet the quality requirements or provide them with the treatment they were entitled to. We believe it gives poor predictability and weakens the safety of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e186	Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e191	Of course, there should be exactly the same quality requirements for suppliers in the area of free choice of treatment as it is in the whole of our healthcare system — private, non-profit and public. What is mooting is that when the Council of State talks about free treatment options actors, the Council of State talks about this as a privatisation of Norwegian healthcare. So health services are paid and funded by the public, but they ensure some patient groups, and for our government it was important that the first people who could choose freely were patients in drug treatment and in mental health. We also included in 2017 that children with cerebral parasites could come to Bergen from all over the country, because before they were approved as a free treatment choice actor, parents had to pay for themselves – travel, stay and lost income. Will the Council not see that these are services paid by the government and that it is not privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e196	Now I've answered one of the previous questions about exactly the actor that the representative Treen mentions, that Health West is in dialogue. It is also in the mission letter of regional health companies that they should look at how to conclude agreements with national offers, which the representative Troeen is engaged in. However, this government will give priority to our common healthcare – the one that is present throughout the country and gives all patients equal access to the foremost medical expertise, which, in addition to providing patient treatment, is also responsible for training specialists, driving emergency preparedness, research and development. For the Hospital Telemark, it is dramatic to experience large budget cuts when they have such heavy tasks related to both emergency preparedness and competence development and patients living in their area of exposure. So we're against this system, and we've been to it ever since it was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e201	Marian Hussein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e206	Health West and specialised drug treatment and rehabilitation have been mentioned. Recently we could read that the Council of State and the Ministry of Health had given the green light to Health West that they could open up to commercial operators in tenders for TSB services in 2022. Health West has then interpreted the signals from the Ministry of Health, and in the newspaper we could read that the Minister of Health gave green light. At the same time, we have two large-scale decisions from this room that say that we want non-profit growth in the years to come, and that we also want the TSB to be reserved for this. How does the Council of State think that this balances the need for patients and the desire for good cooperation with the non-profit sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e213	What Health West has done is to announce a competition, and there you are obliged not to exclude anyone from competition. Forwards in the progress of this bidding round are the allocation to each institution, the individual treatment point. We are prepared to follow the decision of the Storting, but it must be done within the same laws that the Storting has adopted. We want to use ideals, but to exclude others from being able to deliver offers, we have absolutely no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e220	Marian Hussein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e226	In the response of the Council of State to the previous question, the Council of State was concerned about the safety of patients in the face of commercial actors who in the short term could shut down their business and thus leave very many patients without a good enough treatment. What we know is that the non-profit sector in Norway has been one of the drivers of better treatment. I am concerned that the Council of State gives this signal to the Health West to allow commercial operators to participate in these tenders and thus push very many ideals out of the healthcare system – especially the TSB, where we know that the various ideal actors have been drivers to provide better services. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e233	We didn't come to the question, but Councillor Kjerkol, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e238	I didn't perceive any question, but I think it makes sense for any government council to follow the law. It is longer in time to assign these tasks. It is important that all tasks to be carried out, all patient treatment carried out in line with the responsibilities of regional health businesses, are good and maintain that quality. We believe – and I have answered many questions from the previous questioner – that it is best done through tenders and agreements, not through an authorisation system as a free choice of treatment, which provides a right of establishment through the authorisation system, so the actor can attract patients, and then it is the local hospital of the patient who pays. We believe that is a suction pipe into the community and makes it demanding to be a public health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e245	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e250	Never before have there been any more private health insurances, reported TV 2 recently. We also know that the health cows have increased as a result of the pandemic. While the public risk of having to wait four weeks in an hour at a regular school, private consultation can be offered within 9 minutes. Differences are exceptional and have great significance for those affected. Patients suffer because today's government is fighting ideologically against private health professionals, and for Kjerkol, it is clearly better with an order reserve where sick people are going to be in hospital queues than using all the available capacities of both private, public and non-profit actors. Despite the fact that we are moving towards an increasingly two-part healthcare system, the government is now winding up the system of free treatment choices. There has been a system that has not only reduced health cows and made private health services available to all, but has also reduced the price of treatment to the benefit of the community. Instead of cutting down Kjerkol cows in hospitals and making private health services available to all, as the Progress Party wants, the Workers' Party-Center Party government, with the support of SV, wants to make it even more expensive with private health care. When you hear the Council of State Kjerkol, I actually get a little feeling of the adventure of Princess Vilkke. Does the Council of State think it is fair that ordinary people are forced by the government to stand in Kjerkol queue, while those with thick wallets or those who have health insurance paid by the employer can get consultation in just a few minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e259	I'm not sure if there's a charming prince in the adventure of Princess Vilkke. It could at least make history even better! But it should not come as a surprise that a government consisting of the Workers' Party and the Center Party will give priority to a strong public health service. It is the public health service that is present throughout the country. The system is a very good system, which very many other countries envy us. Every citizen of Norway is entitled to his or her own general medical specialist who will follow you over time. It's a system that cracks in the joints. There have been eight years when the representative of the Hoksrud Party has governed health policy. Clearly, I am concerned about a two-way street and an increase in commercial players here, and we see that too. In the case of ideological sky posters, we don't have that. We believe that cooperation with private people should take place on the premises of the community, and here I will – perhaps, quote a charming prince, Jens Stoltenberg, who has often said that “the market is a good servant, but a bad master”. During the pandemic, all good actors have been put into service, but this has happened on public health premises, and it was also a former health minister with a different batch color who also did not find it appropriate to use private operators to bring down the queues. The purpose must be for patients to receive the treatment they need, in a timely manner, in the right place, with the right competence. Then we believe that agreements with private people are what serves the community the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e268	I hope the prince will see to it that the government that is now sitting is thrown out in less than four years – then it is a good prince. When health insurance really speeded up, it was under the red-green last time. So people don't trust you to get the treatment you need when you have to stand in a health queue. Thus, in the red-greens from 2011 to 2012, it increased by 120 000 new health insurances. With a red-green government now that doesn't want to let private get the opportunity to join and contribute to helping people, I think it's going to increase sharply in the next few years as well. The paradox is that the Minister of Health says that she will treat more people, despite the fact that treatment is now becoming more expensive, less accessible and the Kjerkol cows are only growing and growing. Can the Council explain the underlying calculation, when she says that the winding-up of free treatment choices and the use of private services will provide more treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e275	Health services use a lot of private. In drug and mental health protection and in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, the TSB, there are many private, many ideals used. What is the difference between this government and the previous one is that we believe that this should be done on the premises of the Community, through contracts and through tenders that provide transparency and the possibility of prioritising resources. That is a different policy direction. To the issue of the turnover of health insurance: there is something people pay for, but our goal is to provide the public health services with the help they need, when they need it, and that health cows should go down. They have done so since 2010, and much of it is due to the fact that you are working more day-to-day and printing earlier. One of our objectives in this period of government is to empower the municipalities similarly for the heavier patients for whom they have been responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e282	There will be follow-up questions – first Morten Wold.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e287	Even though I'm a rojalist, there will be neither princesses nor princes in this matter. That there's red-green resistance to everything that's private, we're used to. The Hurdal platform determines that it will be more difficult to purchase private health insurance, and now the Arbeiderparti-Senterparti government will introduce a new turnover tax for private health insurance. Instead of making health insurance less accessible, the Progress Party will make private treatment free of charge. Why does the Council of State think that it is the turn of ordinary people to stand in an ever longer Kjerkol queue, when we hear many sad stories about people waiting for months to get the help they so badly need?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e296	With regard to the current budget, we had little time. An incoming government is only given the opportunity to flaunt the budget of the dwindling government. But we're already showing direction in the supplemental letter. We're strengthening the hospital's basic funding. It makes it easier to prioritize patients in mental health and drugs, which are the ones we are most concerned about not having to wait too long for treatment. I need the waiting list down there. We are quite clear that we want to strengthen our common health care. In the fixed medical scheme, the majority are private traders. In drug treatment, there are many good private actors. What they have in common is that they have an agreement with the public. So this ideological struggle is the right side that drives, that wants a free right of establishment for private people and that money should follow the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e304	Morten Wold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e309	What creates a two-part healthcare system is when a very large number of Nordics are excluded from one part of the healthcare system because the government has what we think is ideological skyscrapers – or said in another way: allergy to most that has the word ‘private’ in it. So I'm just repeating my question: why does it seem more important for the Minister of Health to leave ordinary people in the Kjerkol queue instead of using what's available – a free capacity that's a lot of the private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e314	It is not that anyone is excluded from health care in Norway. In Norway, this room has given every resident the right to medical treatment when they need it, no matter who you are, what you have in the wallet, or where you live in the country. Then we must have a strong public health service that is present throughout the country. The privatised health policy for which the Right and Advance Party stand has given us a small taste of free treatment through the authorisation system. We see where the commercial wants to establish itself: that's where the market is best, where there are the most people, in the Central East. But this government will provide good health services throughout the country – in Båtsfjord, in Lierne, in Trondheim, in Westfold, in Eastfold and in Buskerud, where the representative Wold lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e319	Good Buskerud came with me. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e326	I have a question to the state council Ola Borten Moe. Of course, the Russian regime's attack on Ukraine affects students and researchers both in Ukraine and Russia. Several thousand Russian students and academic staff have signed up to Putin's illegal attack war, and they deserve our support and respect. At the same time, over 180 Russian university leaders have signed an opinion supporting the invasion. Academic freedom in Russia is very limited. Institutions are largely subject to the power and control of authorities. There is therefore every reason to fear that the researchers and students who protest are at risk of serious consequences, both legal persecution and for their education and academic positions. The programmes Students that Risk and Scholars that risks are created to protect students and researchers who are being persecuted in their home country, so that they can complete their education or research, for example: in Norway. But the programmes are limited in scope. They can now not provide rapid protection when needed, and they can only help a few. The Council of State will support an exceptional extension of the Student's risk and Scholars schemes to provide rapid protection and academic freedom for Russian students and researchers who protest against the war, and the Government will contribute to supporting the establishment of a joint European Student's programme to risk and support other countries that will set up their own programmes, including: Norwegian student organisation has been appointed here in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e337	Thanks to the Courtyard for including an important and current theme. Let me first recapitulate what is Norway's position and attitude so far. It is that we have completed all state-to-state research cooperation, educational cooperation, with Russia. We have also asked our institutions to close institutional cooperation between them, precisely justified both by the attack war in Ukraine and by the support that we see the institutions giving to the Putin regime in the Kremlin. Then we have said that we want the research-to-research collaboration to continue. There is every reason to support what may be of independent researchers and independent academia in Russia. It is important for us to have contacts. It is important to think that at some point we should have the opportunity to resume contact with Russia in a friendly and good way. And finally, we have also continued our student cooperation, as far as possible. There I think there are some practical challenges we are going to face in the future, as a consequence of both the sanctions that the West has launched and travel restrictions. However, to the extent that Russians want to complete their study programmes in Norway, they are of course cordially welcome to it. It is important for this government to signal that it should be. When it comes to academic freedom in Russia, I think it's very limited, as was said here. If Russians appear in Norway who have a real need for protection, they will of course be treated in an ordinary way as part of the asylum institution we have. Then we have the programs to which it was referred. We'll see about that together with our European friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e348	It is good to hear that Russian students and researchers who protest are cordially welcome to complete their education in Norway. Then I register that the Council of State believes we should look at this together with our European colleagues. We have to do that about establishing a European programme, but in Norway we already have students at risk and Scholars at risk. This is obviously urgent for many students and researchers who are currently at risk of experiencing serious consequences. Perhaps many are already among those who are arrested. They don't have time to wait, whether they're Russians or Ukrainians. That's why I want to give a signal from SV that we will gladly and quickly give a majority to a change in the budget in order to get a strong extension of the students at risk and Scholars at risk. Will the Council consider making proposals to the Storting to amend the budget in order to achieve this? These arrangements are precisely designed to protect students who experience oppression, as many Russian students now do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e357	Yes, I will not in any way reject it – of course. It is important to stress that the prerequisite for using these programmes that already exist, is of course that people are here, and that people have a real opportunity to apply. As the representative of the Supreme Court knows for sure, travel activity and travel possibilities between east and west have been greatly reduced in recent times. I also think parts of the activity that we want to continue – just to have said it – related to students, researchers and research collaboration, will be significantly affected by the fact that there are no flights, that most of the boundaries for all practical purposes are closed, and that the cash flows are cut. But as I said, to the extent that people are here and have a real need for protection, they are of course welcome in Norway, and then we will do our part to facilitate their completion of their studies and any research projects in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e366	There will be follow-up questions – first Freddy André Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e371	It is good that the Council of State has asked universities and colleges to accept Ukrainian researchers and students on the run, so that they can continue their work or studies in Norway. The question is whether the Council of State is planning to provide funding to institutions to provide more places of study and jobs for this purpose, and whether the Council of State will also take the initiative to ensure that refugees are socially and economically affected by interactions, such as other students. These people who have fled Ukraine and now come to Norway – and who would like to continue their studies, their research projects – will need places to live. They will need health care etc., like other students, but with a completely different starting point. How has the government assessed that question so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e378	We have pointed out students from three countries who need special attention, and that is Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. It goes without saying that the starting point is very different for Ukrainians, who are now on mass flight. There is every reason to believe that there are many of those who have already fled and who are going to flee, who are going to end up in Norway. It is now preparing the entire Norwegian community. The ministry has been very clear in our communication and our conversations with the institutions – i.e. the universities and colleges – that we want to integrate, take up and provide study opportunities for those who are in the relevant school years and go to that type of education as quickly as possible. We are also prepared to look at different legislative adaptations, so that they can be brought in quickly. It may be about authorisation systems and accreditations. It may also be about a number of deadlines, such as: The deadline for Coordinated Recording, on April 20, but fortunately, I feel that the whole system has a huge commitment to get to this. I think this is going to go very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e386	Freddy André Supreme Court – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e391	Thanks for the answer. Students in Ukraine are in an acute situation. In addition, students from African and Asian countries in particular experience serious discrimination at the border outside the country, which we could read about, for example, in the field of drugs. in the Official Journal of the European Union, on 3 March. Missions from the student’s home country have made strong reactions. I understand that the Norwegian authorities cannot solve this in a chaotic situation on the ground in another country, but nevertheless the borders of Ukraine are our outer border through the Schengen cooperation. That is why it concerns us too. How has the Council of State reacted to this treatment of foreign students at our outer border, and what does the government do to our European colleagues to secure the way out for foreign students in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e398	To this extent – and it does, for everything I know, certainly, I take the representative for the floor – there is discrimination against other nationalities at the border between Ukraine and Poland or Ukraine and Romania, of course, we take a sharp distance from that. It was just supposed to be missing. I do not feel that there has been a problem in the Norwegian public vocabulary. These are third-country nationals, and they come from a place. Once they're well across the border, they're in Europe and in security, and there I think we have to assume that the systems work well. They will have the opportunity to go home to the extent they want. Our focus is on dealing with what we already have to assume as a large Ukrainian refugee stream to Europe. It's obviously coming to Norway too. It has to be the whole of Norwegian society, including universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e405	Sofie Højestøl - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e410	My question follows in the same track as SVs. The higher education sector has good experience in contributing to such a crisis. In 2015, the sector came together in what was then called academic hard work, to help students and researchers from Syria. Here we have many current experiences that we can reap in the time to come. But many of the normal deadlines for higher education are now in the spring, on which the Council of State was just in, and some will need to have previous education approved in Norway. This will take time. We want most people to be able to continue their studies as quickly as possible, including from the autumn. I would like a little more specific answers from the Council of State on what he thinks he can do, so that the sector can actually do the integration work in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e415	Thank you for an important and constructive question. Luckily, there are many experiences of subtracting from previous crises, and there are also some differences. Among other things, Ukraine has been part of the Bologna process, and we have essentially the same education system. Ukraine is also a country that has a much longer academic tradition than what we have in Norway, and they have a consistently high level of education — a high level of professionalism. Nevertheless, some accreditation work is certainly to be done. We have already started conversations with NOKUT and others to try to make this as easy as possible. I have notified – and I would never have done that in any other situation – that we are willing to slip into temptations, for example. linked to Coordinated Recording. If these are people coming to spring, who are going to have their first admissions at Norwegian universities and colleges, it makes no sense to wait a year. Then we have to fix it somehow. I'll fix that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e420	Sofie Højestøl - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e425	I'm very happy to hear that. I know that many in my sector, as we often do, are asking for budgetary resources for how to do this in practice. These are study programmes that have been experiencing cutbacks in recent years. I feel that it is a great wish in the sector to continue working on this, but then you need predictable funding. I wonder if one will come back to Stortinget with this in the revised state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e430	Yeah, we're going to make sure there's enough funding in the sector. The challenge is that we don't know the frames. Neither I nor you nor anyone else here knows how many there are coming, and we don't know how many of them are coming, who will want and need to enter a Norwegian university or a Norwegian college, so we have to do that a little bit later. But my starting point is that it should be funded enough to have a good offer. At the same time, I would like to mention that I also believe that Norway — probably, at least — can gain access to a lot of expertise through those who are coming. It is by no means inconceivable that many of them are competent university staff and skilled researchers. Then it would have been nice if they could have started working at one of our institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e435	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e440	I would like to ask a question to the higher education minister too, but unfortunately we only have one in the left, so then we have to spread it out a little bit. My question goes to Ingvild Kjerkol: The war in Europe is now about to become one of the greatest humanitarian disasters since World War II in Europe. Yesterday we got numbers that show that about two million people are now on the verge, and the UN believes that the second wave of refugees will consist of far more vulnerable people than those who have come to now, people who are without contacts and without resources. It is critical that Norway participates in this pan-European effort to help those now affected by a senseless war. For the time being, there are about 1,000 registered refugees from Ukraine in Norway, but we have to expect that there will be many more. The left is pleased that the government has decided to give collective protection to Ukrainian refugees. These are Ukrainians like refugees from dramatic circumstances, who have lost homes and assets, and who have witnessed ruined cities, rocket attacks and killings. Those who come are likely to be traumatized and affected for a long time by the events they have witnessed. When Norway commits to receiving refugees, we also commit ourselves to providing them with a good treatment. The arrival of Ukrainian refugees will require much of an already overburdened mental health service, which, among other things, both during and after the pandemic, has experienced a sharp increase in enquiries and referrals. So my question to the Minister of Health is: What concrete steps does the government take to upgrade the mental health service to be able to handle large numbers of Ukrainian refugees who need help?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e452	We're cleaning up the mental health service. We have announced a stepping-up plan, and we are also doing a good job in the short term, in the current budget. But if the representative allows it, I would also like to say a little bit more about how we are preparing for the flow of refugees that will come to us and that are already in neighbouring countries around Ukraine. Of course, we are going to increase our own capacity to help those who come here, but we are also helping neighbouring countries to increase their capacity, both by responding to the EU's request for assistance, and it is all about everything from donating medicines to personnel to everything the Norwegian healthcare can mobilise and provide. And Norwegian health services are in international crisis. It's done that before. Right now, we have a mission to our underlying agencies to ensure good recommendations to the UDI, which is responsible for the reception capacity, and a good cooperation with the police, so that those who come to Norway get a so-called d-number as soon as possible, so that they can receive health care. So we know that it is especially important to take care of children and young people who are traumatised, and it is different from the more traditional health service, the more traditional health check offered to refugees and asylum seekers. So we're also working on that, so that we can catch up with those kinds of challenges early. We don't have all the answers there, but we're working with the state administrators, because it'll be mainly reception and the municipal auxiliaries that need to be mobilised in the first place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e461	There will be follow-up questions – first Une Bastholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e466	I would say it even stronger than the previous speaker: we had a mental health crisis in Norway before the invasion of Ukraine and before it became a population migration from Ukraine – for which we will, of course, also take our share of responsibility in Norway by providing protection to more people. That means that the words ‘notify a escalation plan’ appear to me very unsafe and far ahead of time. I want more concrete answers on what is being done right now to increase the appropriations for all municipalities, to support them in the population – perhaps up to 30 p.m., say the researchers – who are now struggling with mental health problems they had not before, and who are able to equip the municipalities that are now receiving refugees in reception, with health care in the short term, but also with long term care. Of course, there is also cooperation with voluntary actors and others who can contribute to activities and social life, which means getting on with life and getting worked out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e473	A stepping-up plan shall ensure a better mental health service in the longer term. It was also not my response to the previous representative. But we have challenges in that field, and now we have new challenges. What is available from lowthreshold mental health services in municipalities is the first to be mobilised when refugees from Ukraine are settled in Norway. Then we have experience of a crisis that we are still dealing with, but of which we are now in a much more manageable phase, namely the pandemic. There, we have quickly established health-free arrangements, for non-profit actors, and we look at the same type of response mechanisms when we have a need to care for children and young people who have experienced trauma before coming to our country. They're going to get the health care they need, so we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e478	Alfred Jens Bjørlo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e483	I myself have our spokesmen in a municipality for many years, and know what an enormous will and ability it is local to help refugees who come. People put up and bite with food, clothes, shelters. The municipality boasts a schoolroom, a kindergarten and everything around – and heartwarming, volunteering and everything the council has said. But what I feel and believe most of the municipalities seem to be most demanding to deal with, is that many come with serious trauma. There's a lot of women and children coming here, and they need professional help. They need a type of service that is already overburdened in many municipalities, services that are now also to be provided in many small municipalities that do not already have a good device for professional mental health care. Actually, I just want to repeat the question. A lot of good things are done from the government, as a story about now, but what will you do to strengthen professional help to those with serious traumas that are now coming to municipalities throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e490	It is the professionals we have in the ministry today who are going to give help to those who are coming. What we have done now is that we have asked the Health Directorate to call the Heads of State to a meeting to prepare municipalities that will get refugees to their municipality – and thus can mobilise their resources. Then we'll figure out what kind of health control this refugee group will need. It differs from previous waves of asylum seekers and refugees, we're particularly concerned about having experienced traumas and had to flee quickly, with the impressions they've brought here. And then it's important that we manage to organise well the response that we're now going to give, so that the help comes out, and that the resources are used correctly, because there will be huge tasks the municipalities have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e497	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e502	My question goes to the Minister for Development. When Russia invaded Ukraine two weeks ago and started a war, Putin in many ways reinforced an existing food crisis by making it even more difficult to produce and distribute food. Even before the war in Ukraine, producing enough food was a major challenge, including: because of the pandemic. This crisis is now getting worse. Several inputs in the production of fertilisers are found in Russia and are controlled by oligarchs. Without fertiliser supply, the crops fall by 50 pst. the first year thereafter. In addition, more than half of the grain used by the World Food Programme originates from Russia and Ukraine. Ukraine accounts for approx. 30 pst. of the world’s wheat and barley production, and today there has just been a notification that they are prohibiting exports of these products out of the year. That means that the ability to produce food will be dramatically reduced, and it will contribute very negatively. It is the most vulnerable who are hit hardest, and the World Food Programme has called this disaster at the top of the disaster. In the 2022 budget, the government has decided to cut its support for the World Food Programme first by 200 million. NOK and then 120 million. kr to in the budgetary agreement with SV. I know that the allocation of the World Food Programme falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I still think it is relevant because it is about the whole of the response that is now being given, and I expect that there will be a thorough discussion in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The world's food programme now says that 276 million people in 81 countries are in an acute famine situation. The question is, How can the government in the short and immediate perspective help to ensure that this food crisis does not deteriorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e515	I am very pleased that the representative raises this question. The food crisis has been a silent crisis for many years and is going to deteriorate dramatically with the ongoing war in Europe. The representative pointed out quite correctly that the inputs to fertilisers are largely sourced in Russia, among others. potassium and nitrogen. Gas is also an important input into production. We also know that very many regions in the world are dependent on imports of cereal grain from the grain chambers in Ukraine and Russia. Only a country that Egypt has contracts for about 10 million tons of food grain just for 2022. In dialogue with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the WFP expressed great concern about the long-term consequences for regions such as the Middle East and, of course, for other regions. The food crisis was dramatic and has been extremely exacerbated now. That is why I am very pleased that this government has launched a commitment to food security in the long-term perspective, because this was a crisis even before. The appropriations for the WFP are at a sustained high level compared to the average level in recent years, and the WFP is a key channel for food security efforts in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e522	The importance of food safety and climate adaptation is something that the previous government also worked a lot with. We put forward our own strategy, where five government councils merged on the strategy, precisely because this is a long-term work. But what I was more concerned about in my question was how the acute crisis we are now seeing can be resolved, both with contributions from Norway and, of course, also in close cooperation with other European countries. This is something that will not only hit immediately in Ukraine, but it will hit all the countries of the world, and especially the most vulnerable and the poorest. That is why I repeat my question about how it can now be worked concretely in this acute phase to help ensure that this food crisis does not get bigger than it already is. I fully share the concerns that the Council of State also put on the table about how this can affect the situation dramatically in both the short and the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e530	It is important that we focus here on both the long-term and the short-term consequences. As the representative very well knows, the responsibility for the humanitarian effort is institutionally placed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to stress that short-term assistance through the WFP will be at a high level, at the level of the average levels in the past. In addition, in the context of the Ukraine crisis, we have added to the humanitarian effort, so that the extraordinary needs for humanitarian action in Ukraine should not be at the expense of other important, long-term crises. In addition, I need to stress that we need to be able to keep focus on the long-term work of raising food production in addition to the short-term humanitarian effort, and here the government has contributed half a billion more just in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e535	There will be follow-up questions – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e540	I hear the council is pleased with the question and thinks in the short and long term, but I thought I should talk about that situation now, which makes things look different. I have previously requested an explanation from the Council of State as to what the government's announced commitment to food security will consist of. I am pleased with previous answers, I would like to thank them at least, and it was pointed to a small-scale agriculture and local food production as the government's priority areas. However, in view of the current acute situation, there is reason to believe that Norway’s commitment to food safety may need to be reviewed again. My question to the Council of State is, will the government do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e545	Yes, we are in the process of chiseling out a new focus on food safety and small-scale food production. The reason for that focus is precisely that small-scale producers produce the predominantly proportion, the volume, of food for those who experience the most food uncertainty in the world. It is therefore essential to strengthen the productivity of the very smallest producers in order to combat just the world's hunger. That is why I am very pleased with the rotation this government has done in the food safety work. With regard to the acute crisis we are now facing in food production, it is the humanitarian instruments that should help us in the short term. With regard to the long-term increase in food production, I think it is essential, first of all, to bring up the productivity of the smallest producers of both aquatic food and land-based food, and to provide value chains that get this food processed and up to the markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e552	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e557	I thank you for the answer, but when Ukraine and Russia stand for more than 50 pst. of what is used for the production of this kind of food, which the world needs, and in relation to Egypt, to which the Council of State also referred, it is not about small scale. It's not just about the small farmers and the farmers, it's about the big ones. My question is again, back to the Council of State: what is the proportion of large-scale versus small-scale if the government really has to think again about whether one has to revise in order to be not only short-term and long-term, but actually take an emergency situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e562	Of course, in my constitutional area, which is about the fight against poverty, development and the role of food security in this respect, the most vulnerable and vulnerable are the main target groups. These are also the people who live in food insecurity, and who are largely starving today. The food these people depend on is produced by small-scale producers, which are also heavily exposed to climate change, and therefore are not robust in their production. In order to ensure the poorest in the world food, small-scale production is clearly the way to go, also because this production needs to become more climate-friendly and robust against inputs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e567	Tobias Drvland Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e572	As previous articles also show, we know that the world is in a rather acute situation now. Global hunger has been increasing in the last 5–6 years. Now, according to the UN, 811 million people are starving, and 45 million are on the verge of famine. The famine in the world is a result of climate change, of poverty and not least of war and conflict. The war in Ukraine is a disaster in itself, but it may affect very many others at the top of already humanitarian disasters. Professor Ruth Haug of the NMBU writes in Dagbladet today that the war also affects hungry and poor people elsewhere in the world because of rising energy, fertiliser and wheat prices on the world market. Vulnerable groups have little to do with dealing with food becoming more expensive. It can mean eating less, less and less and also cutting others, such as children's education and schooling. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What is Norway's contribution to contributing to this acute situation and combating world hunger in the light of the very serious situation we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e583	I thank the representative that he will focus on this extremely important field – perhaps the most important field – of ensuring that people do not die of hunger in the world in 2022. As the representative points out, hunger has been increasing over several years. It's going to get dramatically worse in 2022. Nobel Prize winner Beasley just delivered this message in his speech in December 2021 when he received the Peace Prize, and that was before the Ukraine crisis. The government has said that we will bet on the long-term small-scale production of food, have a stronger device and increase the appropriations for the long-term food security. In addition, the WFP is a key channel for our humanitarian efforts, which are at a very high level.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e592	Tobias Drvland Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e598	I thank you for your answer. The refugee aid launched yesterday what they called an emergency aid plan, asking the countries for 738 million. kr. As Secretary-General Jan Egeland of the Refugee Aid pointed out, this must not be at the expense of already humanitarian crises elsewhere in the world, such as the United States. Afghanistan. My question to the Council of State is – she was a little bit concerned about it earlier, but I ask to make it quite clear to me: Is it so that the 2 billion. Do not the additional funds granted by Norway to Ukraine, which is badly in need, and which Red also supports, go at the expense of already planned assistance in the state budget for this year and in the revised state budget that comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e605	The government is very concerned that the humanitarian efforts in Ukraine should not be at the expense of other precarious humanitarian crises in the world and the long-term development efforts that we are stepping up. It is important to show solidarity with Ukraine now, and therefore we have said that we should grant up to 2 billion. kr extra in humanitarian efforts. 250 million. These funds will be given priority under the humanitarian assistance framework, but it is therefore the government's proposal to give a further €1.75 billion. as an addition to today's aid budget. We'll get back to the details of this in connection with RNB.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e612	Let's move on to the next main question. I will assume that the Council of State may stand still.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e617	The vast majority of countries have shown solidarity with the Ukrainian people and have taken a great deal of distance from Putin's brutal war in Ukraine. We saw this clearly in the vote of the UN General Assembly on 2 March. But there are a few undemocratic states that have shown sympathy for Putin's actions and support Russia's invasion. This is not unexpected Belarus, North Korea, Eritrea and Syria. There are also countries that, for various reasons, remain neutral, or that have chosen to remain indifferent to Putin's attack war, but being neutral in this matter is taking sides. Among these are the countries China, India, Pakistan, Tanzania, Vietnam and South Africa. The Western world has been quick to impose powerful sanctions, which the Norwegian government is also supporting. However, a large part of this Norwegian purse, namely the aid budget, seems to be unaffected by the sanctions. Aid policy lives in its own world, as if world events are not relevant. The answer is always the same: we can't punish people who suffer. Well, there are many people in many countries who suffer, but where the country's authorities at the same time show sympathy and solidarity with people suffering in other countries. No matter how much the government insists on the opposite, there is no doubt that Norwegian aid in many countries is seen as indirect support to the country’s leadership – aid is also policy. In 2020, Norway provided assistance to states that have shown their true face through the attitude towards Russia’s warfare. These include Tanzania, Uganda and South Sudan. These are countries that are among the largest beneficiary countries of Norwegian aid. Such a practice is a mockery of the many suffering in Ukraine. Solidarity is more than words, it is action, and we have the opportunity to act, both directly and indirectly. With this as a hindrance, I want to know whether the government realizes that assistance is also a political tool and indirectly legitimizes that despots maintain their power. Will the government show solidarity with the Ukrainian people and end assistance to countries that support Russia's warfare, and rather transfer them to countries that respect and adhere to international law and order?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e630	I thank the representative for the question. I agree with the representative that aid is often largely political, and that must of course be taken into account. On the other hand, it is not right for the representative to claim that assistance is almost on autopilot and does not respond in view of changing framework conditions and political shifts in the recipient countries. The representative mentioned some country examples that are highly topical today, where we include: in Ethiopia, Myanmar and Sudan, it has become very challenging to continue cooperation based on reciprocity and trust. We do not cooperate with authorities that make a dramatic change of course away from democracy, freedom of expression and respect for fundamental human rights. At the same time, it is often precisely in these situations that the needs of the population are growing. Norwegian assistance is channelled mainly through the United Nations system, global funds, the World Bank and other international financial institutions as well as civil society in this type of challenging beneficiary country. A substantial part goes to humanitarian action. We, together with other donors, redo the aid where it is necessary to respond to the needs of the population, while not supporting regimes that are not democratically elected and that do not represent human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e637	This is a non-response. In addition, management in different countries also sees assistance to their population as indirect support for their management. It also means that they don't have to spend the money they have to take care of their own people. Of course. If you get money from someone, you don't prioritize your own population — or you don't spend the money you have, on the part of the population that's suffering. We've seen that in many places on the Earth. The National Audit Office has presented a report with total slaughter of Norwegian aid policy. If you shake your head of it, you should read what it says: you don't reach your development goals, you don't reach people it's meant to be, you don't have a general strategy, you have a lot of administrative and operational skills, it's not cost-effective, you don't pay little attention to what the aid costs, and reports to the Storting are not well-balanced. These are the facts of the Riksrevision, and the Riksrevision should listen to the Council of State. Does the Council of State realize that what we are doing in terms of aid policy, including in the countries I mentioned instead, is legitimizing the leaders of the countries we are talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e644	I hope the representative's words do not mean that he is not going to allow Norway to act humanitarianly in a country under demanding democratic regimes, and I disagree with the representative that doing so without channelling through channels other than the authorities themselves, in any way legitimizes the country's authorities – rather the opposite. That's also a little bit of a point. That is why, as an example, in Ethiopia, we freeze support for the country in the context of the political crisis there. I disagree that Norwegian aid has been totally slaughtered by the Riksrevision, but we have received concrete and good input into how the aid can always be made better and even more effective. And, of course, it is the prime task of a Minister of Development to ensure the effectiveness and legitimacy of the large funds given.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e651	I beg the Council of State to listen again. If she heard Per-Kristian Foss on New Year's Eve 18 a few months ago, he repeated – almost with a little laughter in his voice – how poorly it is organized. If you don't listen to it, it doesn't help to say that it wasn't a total slaughter, because it was actually. So the Council of State also says that we use it as political tools, and she mentioned Ethiopia, where the funds have been frozen. That's exactly what you do -- you punish despots. Then you do exactly what the council says you shouldn't do. One has to look at the humanitarian need, but in Ethiopia, the humanitarian need was clearly not relevant. That's not true. You punish Ethiopia's leadership because they're not democratic, or because they're not taking care of their own people. You say at the same time that it's not a political tool. It's a political tool. In fact, you have to go in and punish the countries that have now chosen to support Putin's warfare in Ukraine. Of course it is. It is not difficult not to support Putin in the UN, but nevertheless the Norwegian Minister of Assistance does not care about those who suffer in Ukraine, because they accept the management of the countries I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e658	It is not ‘you’, but ‘the Council of States’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e663	I did not perceive any question from the representative, but a number of claims which partly fall outside my constitutional responsibility, and which are partly based on contradictions in relation to the first post of the representative. I agreed with the representative that aid is, of course, political. We do not use assistance as an instrument, but we freeze the assistance in situations where the country's authorities are not in a position to cooperate and have trust-based cooperation. Then we use other channels to achieve our purpose, namely to help people in need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e670	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e676	I can't get hold of this – I'm sorry. It does not cooperate with countries that do not cooperate with the UN, with the assistance provided by Norway. On the other hand, no matter what the regime is like in other countries, humanitarian aid is needed. That's what the council says. The Council of State says that there is a need to help because of the humanitarian situation. But in Ethiopia, that's not true, because they don't cooperate. My point is that they have accepted those who vote for Putin's war in Ukraine, who continue the aid as before. Isn't it precisely when we have to use a political tool to force these countries to actually follow international law and order?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e681	I think we should be very careful about subtracting lines from big policy into concrete cooperation agreements with individual countries in the aid. I must admit that I do not fully appreciate the criticism of the representative. If he is targeting those countries that recently supported voting in the UN Security Council linked to Russia, I am not familiar with countries where we have established long-term aid agreements. I take that as my reservation, but I would nevertheless believe that this is to draw the conditionality of the assistance far too far, and it would be a very ‘slippery slip’, to say it a little unparliamentary, to go down that ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e688	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e693	There are several important issues that have been raised in the field of research and higher education in the light of the war in Ukraine, and the dialogue around this will also continue in the ordinary Questionnaire. However, I will already take advantage of the opportunity to raise an important issue. More than a million Ukrainians have had to leave their homes and their country since Russia started the invasion of Ukraine. The UN estimates that ten million people will flee. On the right, Norway now has to open the doors to Ukrainian refugees, and we are pleased that both government councils in education are clear that they promise rapid help to refugees, and that the government is now doing the important first steps and showing the will for action. It is challenging to build up capacity to receive many in a short time. People who come, need to immediately roof over their heads. Someone might need health care. Gradually, many people will also need help to get into activity. The right has asked the government to present a concrete plan to enable asylum recipients and municipalities to receive refugees. From specific measures, we propose, inter alia: a rapid track for the reception of Ukrainian refugees into work and activity. It is positive that the government is now warning that they will look at this. There's no time to lose. It's dramatic, what's happening in Ukraine, and the war is constantly changing. It may be a long-standing refugee crisis, but it may also be about refugees who are here for a short time. When the war is over, most will want to travel back to their family and join in building up their homeland. Quick solutions are needed to get people into activity and work. What will the government do to ensure that Ukrainians who are now coming to Norway can be quickly and unbureaucratically recognised from their home country and receive modular training in a flexible way to pursue their profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e706	Thank you for the question. Firstly, the government has already stated that Ukrainians will be covered by collective protection. It makes things much easier because it automatically comes with opportunities to take work and for other participation in Norwegian society that would otherwise have been clarified through an ordinary asylum process, which usually takes quite a long time. I feel that we are now on a broad front in the Norwegian community taking up our reception capacity and preparing the municipalities for settlement. It is also under government regulations other than mine, but in any case we have started to look at the accreditation rules. As I replied to Højestøl earlier today, there is reason to believe that it can be easier for Ukraine because they have an education system similar to our own, compared to a number of other crises we've faced in the past. In addition, we need to be flexible and look at application deadlines and, where appropriate, other types of deadlines and arrangements that allow us to get these people into training courses and possibly work as quickly as possible. I feel that the starting point for the question is the same as the intention in the ministry: to get flexible, fast-moving schemes, and to be able to absorb these people on a broad front in Norwegian society as quickly as possible and without delay, whether it be work, education or research that is the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e715	I thank you for your answer. As I said in my post, we're very happy that the government is now so clear on the ball, but it's important to understand that this can be a pretty big crisis. There may be quite a number of refugees who will need help. In the case of a fast track, one sees that in Sweden they have experience of having different professional tracks in this fast track, which makes you perhaps able to work even more. So I think it might be important to take it into account in the further work and look at the possibilities for it. When we had the previous refugee crisis, in 2015, had a good experience with supplementary education, where, among other things, a in nursing and school, the possibility of building on education was given. Will the government look at strengthening the capacity of supplementary education, both within the established offers and, if necessary, new ones, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e724	It may be that it is good tips to pick up in Sweden. It may also be appropriate to look at complementary education provision. However, I am of the opinion that we must at least take the reservation that we must see how many are coming. I don't know, you don't know that. No one knows, but there is every reason to believe that there is going to be a significant number in Norway as well. So we're going to be flexible, and we're going to be adaptable. We're going to focus on how we can get people into these races as fast as possible, preferably outside the regular deadlines that we run within my sector, which is usually quite rigid. I agree with what is the intention of the question, as I experience it: how can one continue an education that one has already started in Ukraine, and complete it in Norway? Of course, we have to look at that kind of arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e731	Margaret Hagerup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e736	We fully agree that we have to make a reservation about the number, but I think the key code the Council of State used was ‘a significant number’. That's probably what you have to prepare for. So we closely follow in the further work that is going on there. At the same time, NOKUT has already had an increase in applications for recognition of foreign education. After cutting the budget, Kristin Vinje was outside and said that he was concerned about the further capacity. There is also a significant cost side of the real competence assessment that needs to be made. The Council of State has responded somewhat to this earlier, but is the Council of State considering that those who now have solutions to do so have sufficient resources? Or will the Council of State consider rapid changes in the appropriations to ensure that this will not be a stop to the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e743	For the moment, my analysis is not that the main challenge lies in the poor funding of NOKUT. SOMETHING is well-funded, and SOMETHING does a very important job. But I would like to stress that, as far as Ukraine is concerned, it should be easier than it has been in many other cases, precisely because they have an education system that is quite similar to our own. It is a country with long academic traditions, considerably longer than we have in Norway. They have followed the Bologna process, and it should be possible to find relatively simple, standardised mechanisms to monitor and document what people have of competence and paper, and then swept them into the Norwegian education system in a normal way. That's at least my starting point. If it turns out to be wrong, we might have to come back to Stortinget with questions about something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e748	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e762	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative, Mr Stokkebø, to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative of Kari-Anne Jønnes to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be addressed by the representative of Tore Vamraak. Question 6, from the representative Harek Elvenes to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Question 8, from the representative of Rauand Ismail to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be addressed by the representative of Rasmus Hansson. Question 9, from the representative of Tobias Drevland Lund to the Minister for Local and District Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e782	‘An enormous increase in the workload of the Financial Supervisory Authority is expected to ensure that Norwegian financial companies deal with the sanctions against Russian oligarchs. An expert on money laundering and penalties warns in today's industry on 2 March that Norwegian banks are too poorly equipped for the task, and that the FSA has for a long time deprived the field. Does the government have plans to strengthen the financial supervision’s capacity, so that Norway does not become a haven for the circuit around Vladimir Putin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e789	I want to thank you for the question. To all the students who sit and watch: now we go from what is spontaneous to what is prepared. This is a new phase in the Questionnaire, and therefore I have prepared a good response to the representative Martinussen, who I am now starting to read. Then I'll do it. I fully share the views of the representative Martinussen on the importance of compliance with the sanctions in Norway and in the Norwegian financial sector. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for the Norwegian legislation on sanctions and their implementation. The PST, for its part, is responsible for preventing and investigating breaches of the penal code. The role of financial supervision is to oversee the banking systems to capture customers and transactions related to sanctioned entities. Over the last few years, monitoring has stepped up efforts in the area of anti-whitewashing, terrorist financing and sanctions. Similarly, Norwegian banks have significantly increased resource use in recent years. The financial supervision carries out ongoing assessments of the supervisory tasks that need to be prioritised and of how resources should be used. Supervision has also contributed to the development of guidance to assist, inter alia: banks where they are required to comply with the penalty obligations. The guide has been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The audits of financial supervision are mainly carried out as part of the normal banking supervision. In addition, in December 2021, the Financial Supervisory Authority announced a thematic review of banks’ screening systems for international sanctions. The systems of 20 selected banks will be subject to extensive testing and a detailed review of the strengths and weaknesses of the systems. The final report is expected to provide useful learning for the future follow-up of sanctions in the financial sector. The financial supervision's efforts with both general and specific supervision, and the preparation of guidance with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, constitute an important contribution to the best possible compliance of Norwegian financial undertakings with their obligations in the area of anti-whitewashing, terrorist financing and sanctions. I want to repeat what I started my post with. I fully share the representative's view on the importance of compliance with the sanctions in Norway and in Norwegian financial companies. The government is following the situation closely. If we were to show that there is a need to strengthen supervision, we would have to come back to that in the regular budgetary rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e810	First, thank you for your answer. I'm sorry to take the Council of State even to the Stortinge to answer these questions, but they're very important. For the reason that Putin can wage war is the political and financial support he has from the oligarchs. Red is concerned that we do not have a good enough overview of financial positions in Norway. When the State Council itself was appointed to the Finance Committee here at Stortinget in 2019, it was decided to introduce a ownership register of who actually owns Norwegian companies. The majority decided that Norway should be a leading country for transparency and that the threshold for whom it had to be reported as an owner should be set as low as possible. But the Solberg government went across Stortinget's wish and chose a high threshold, which makes that if an oligarch owns 49 pst. by a Norwegian company, he may go under the radar. My question is whether the Council of States will ensure that this legislation is tightened up, as can be done by regulation, and otherwise do everything possible to eliminate the risk of Norway becoming a haven for Russian oligarchs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e819	I do not think the representative should regret at all that she is going to the State Council to the Stortinget. It's the representative's job, so it's just out of the good stuff. We're here almost every Wednesday now, and that's right. I have also received a well-written question from the representative about the same issue, which we have to address properly in order to see what might be done. I will answer the representative in a written and proper way. Norway shall not be a port of refuge. We work closely with other Nordic and European countries to get the most accurate sanctions. It is also important for Norwegian companies to be able to rest on the fact that the main legislation developed by the State is the penalty law, because some companies feel that they need to have penalties on their own. Of course, companies can have it, but at the end of the day it is when the different countries of Europe come together, that it gives power, and that it can hit them, precisely the Russian leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e828	Yesterday, the Council of State visited Vadsø and Kirkenes, and I know that very many appreciated it. South Varanger Municipality is a municipality that may have been tripled by this crisis, both because obviously there are good reasons to be concerned about a neighbor that is much more shaky now than a couple of weeks ago, because friendship and family ties across borders are being hit, and not least because jobs in both the yard industry and the trading community are threatened by the sanctions that have been imposed. I understand it so from the local media that the Council of State had no concrete crisis response for East Finland and South Varanger, especially because he wanted to discuss the need with people there. I fully understand that, but I wonder if the Council of State can confirm that something is coming, even if the details are definitely being prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e835	It was very important for the government to get to the neighborhood of Norway quickly and for generations to have close relations — varying according to the level of tension. The point of being there yesterday, both for me as Minister of Finance and for Jan Christian Vestre as Minister of Industry, was just to listen and learn and look at the different issues, for example. access to port, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea. It was made clear by the government that Russian fishing boats can still go to port in Norway. We have to look at the challenges it can also give, because there are some challenges, for example. in relation to payment, transactions and all that comes after. Our goal when we now work with the Penal Code is to see if there are typical reasons we as the border state have to take. On Svalbard we have a Russian settlement – is there any extra reason we have to take there? Norway has had a good neighbour in the east, with the challenges and opportunities it offers, and we also need to take that into account when designing our legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e851	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e859	This question, from the representative of Kari-Anne Jønnes to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is raised by the representative of Tore Vamraak.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e864	‘The war in Ukraine has turned thousands of students and academics in Ukraine into refugees, and we have seen strong images of bombed-out university buildings in Kharkiv. From both a short and a long-term perspective, the issue of academic freedom, cooperation and fundamental security for students and researchers will be central. Can the Government explain how the government follows up the consequences of the war in Ukraine in view of the students, researchers and academics involved, academic cooperation and potential sanctions and instruments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e877	This is a very wide issue, and since the situation is under constant development, new measures and changes will be brought into line with the situation. There is a lot to say about what is happening in the knowledge sector as a result of the war in Ukraine, but these are some of the main points. With a few exceptions, all bilateral cooperation between Norwegian and Russian authorities is suspended. Only the critical parts of cooperation are maintained. That means that the Ministry of Knowledge suspends the dialogue with the Russian Ministry of Knowledge. The same is true of our underlying agencies. Let me, for example. mention that the Norwegian-Russian Education Agreement is suspended and that the completed research agreement with Russia is iced. The joint call of the Research Council with Russia has also been stopped. We want our actions to focus as much as possible on Russian authorities, not on civil society or Russian citizens. Akademia can be an important counterweight to the authorities, including in Russia. Therefore, we give Norwegian universities, universities and research institutions, or the research institute, a small opening to continue cooperation that is a sound and professional basis for having. We also establish, where appropriate, research cooperation in nuclear preparedness and fisheries and resource management, i.e. areas where there are obvious national interests. As a general rule, all institutional agreements between Norwegian and Russian institutions shall be iced. Institutions may choose to maintain contracts, but shall do so on a case-by-case basis. In the case of research-to-research collaboration, it is not in Norway’s interest to reduce this. We want an independent Russian academy, in line with normal standards of academic freedom. But unfortunately, we find that academic institutions are under great pressure. Recently, more than 200 Russian university rectors signed a propaganda opinion in support of the invasion of Ukraine. It shows that alternative voices in the Russian Academy need our support. Now it's probably the reality that people-to-people cooperation and research-to-research collaboration can be difficult to implement in practice, but it's not supposed to be on us, we don't want to hit innocent Russian citizens. We have many Ukrainian, Russian and Belarusian students and employees in our sector, and we have to take care of them in the best possible way. It is important for me to be quite clear that our actions are directed at the Russian authorities, not at students and employees of our institutions. They're our friends. The Ministry of Justice has stated that all Ukrainian students in Norway have until now been exempted from the return obligation if their residence permit is about to expire. So they can stay in Norway until further notice. We are now preparing for a potential refugee stream. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] The Spirit of Goodness Is Great
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e892	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e897	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. The end of the answer brings me to the follow-up question, which is that the department has received reports that Russian students and employees at Norwegian UH institutions have been exposed to heat, and this is, of course, totally unacceptable. It is therefore commendable that the Department has sent out letters to all higher education and research institutions in the country and asked them to pay particular attention to this. It is good to see that several of the institutions have also been out and said that they are of course doing so. My question is therefore: what measures does the Ministry itself take to counter Russian students and employees in the Norwegian UH sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e904	Of course, we distance ourselves from all cases of what should be hot against Russian citizens in Norway – there is no need for it to be. As the representative himself pointed out, we sent letters to the universities and colleges and asked them to pay attention to the problem. Besides that, we don't have any specific measures. However, I would like to add briefly that as a citizen of this society, I do not feel that it is impossible to distinguish the regime of the Kremlin from the ordinary Russian. I think the Norwegian people view the Russian people as their friends, their good neighbours in the east. I hope and believe that to the extent we see it, it's going to be very limited and non-existent in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e909	Thanks for the answer. I also share the opinion of the Council of State that this is the general attitude of society. Then the reports received by the Ministry show that there are cases of hot flush. I'm glad it's being followed up. Then it is that Norwegian students and researchers have both become and will have to interrupt their studies and research in Russia as a result of Russia's invasion and Norwegian sanctions. What measures does the Council of State take to ensure that these innocent third parties become least harmful? And in concrete terms, will the Council of State, for example, offer students who discontinue their studies in Russia to be enrolled in Norwegian places of study immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e916	That's an important question. We have a good deal of Norwegian students on different programs in Russia. The practical challenge right now is to get them home safely, to the extent that they will. And then, of course, it's quite natural that as they get home, they are taken into the Norwegian education system and completed their education courses there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e924	I must first be sorry that I stumbled into the list of speakers the last time this question was to be raised, and I would like to thank the Council of State for patiently putting up again to answer an important question, which reads as follows: «Vardø is very hard. Fishing boats at berth are being destroyed by the weather's herrings. This places significant constraints on Vardø’s ability to strengthen coastal fishing on which society relies. Therefore, politicians from all parties in Vardø Municipality have fought for a long time for new outer molo. The molo is within the national transport plan 2022-2033. The molo has been completed and the areas have been completed. Can the Council of State guarantee that the work on the external molo in Vardø will be started during 2022?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e933	First to the opening of the representative Rasmus Hansson: I waited patiently here a month ago, when the question was to be asked, but I might first of all thank the President for the patience and for being able to repeat it a month later. To the question: The government will equip ports and fairways to ensure the growth and development of fisheries-dependent coastal communities. This is an important bet area that is embedded in the Hurdal platform. Vardø is of great importance to the fishing industry in eastern Finland, and therefore this is a project I want to pay attention to. In the national transport plan 2022-2033 it is set at 200 million. SEK for actions relating to the port of Vardø, and the project will be able to start up by 2027 according to the plan that I received from the previous government. I have a great deal of understanding of the impatience of the Vardø community, and I share it with the population and business in Vardø. At the same time, we do not exclude that all projects need to be explored and planned before they are launched, so that decisions on allocation are based on proper cost estimates and that all provisions of relevant legislation are complied with. Dredging from land and flooding at sea will in most cases also trigger permit requirements under the pollution law. As a result of the regional reform, the Coastal Authority does not have up-to-date plans for all the measures contained in the NTP 2022-2033, and several of them therefore require further investigations and clarifications. This applies, inter alia, to: the molo project at the entrance to Vardø. It is a pity that the Coastal Works are now in such a position. This must be seen in the context of the Solberg Government’s decision to transfer the responsibility of the State for fishing ports to the county municipalities and the reduction of the planning and design capacity of the Coastal Authority from 2017 until the Government’s change of government. This has put an end to the planning of this type of project. We are now building up that capacity again and will engage in dialogue with the county councils to realise the reintroduction of state ownership in line with the Hurdal platform. The coastal works are in contact with the municipality to clarify the status and ongoing needs of the project. A single meeting has been held and the Coastal Plant will now assess the data submitted from the municipality. Regardless of this, it is not realistic to start the project in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e948	I thank you for that answer, which provides the basis for a certain optimism, but also the basis for not stepping down the pressure on the government to get molo in Vardø forward. Minister of Foreign Affairs Anniken Huitfeldt stated at the Kirkenes Conference in February: ‘Without people, no security.’ As we all know, the development of the population in eastern Finland is worrying and has been so for a long time. Ukraine's heroic fight against Russia shows very clearly the importance of the civilian population in the security policy as well. For Vardø, who is our ultimate outpost to Russia, population development is largely about the fishing industry's status. Does the Council agree that a new molo in Vardø is a good example of measures that will help to strengthen the settlement and thus the security situation in East Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e960	Of course, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs' assessment of the fact that people live in East Finland. Reconstructing activity in the area is central to this government. Regarding the question of the molo, I have explained that there is a lot of work to be done again. I follow closely the developments that are taking place, and the business initiatives that are in Vardø. There are several exciting initiatives that we are going to follow closely. I have also visited Vardø on two occasions over the last few years, so I am well up-to-date on what is happening there. We need there to be people living in East Finland. We need people living in Vardø, and that's important to this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e965	Thank you for confirming the importance of the settlement in Vardø. It is clear from the Swedish Coastal Agency's action plan that it will be adjusted to the state budget in force at all times. In other words, it is up to the Council of State to give priority to a new molo in Vardø during this period, while it is reasonably likely that the Council of State is in power. 2027 is very long. Will the Minister for Fisheries confirm that he will give priority to the development of new molo in Vardø long before 2027, which is very far from the period of reasonable control by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e970	I do not think we should take a discussion here on how long this Council should be responsible for fisheries and sea areas. At least the government has an ambition that we can run the country safely for a long time, because a new course is needed. I also think that what has happened over the last few years, not least in the case of fishing ports – the development I explained, which places so much restrictions on what can be done quickly, now after the government change – suggests that we should work hard so that we can continue to control over some longer period of time. The project that has now been developed by the municipality is not the same project that was taken into account in the previous NTP. In NTP 2018-2029, two internal moles were added. That solution was subsequently optimised and implemented through the local port aid scheme as a new internal molo. The project that now forms the basis of the current NTP is a new outer molo, and I have explained the work that the Coastal Plant is now doing to see what is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e980	‘During the EU-Africa Summit in Brussels in February this year, the EU announced its intention to invest large sums in the development of green and digital infrastructure in Africa, including: through the so-called ‘Global Gateway’. This can be seen as investment in global public goods. How does the government relate to this EU initiative?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e987	I thank the representative Schou for a very exciting and interesting question. Good and efficient infrastructure is essential for sustainable and well-functioning societies. This includes, inter alia: the sustainability targets 9, building robust infrastructure, promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and contributing to innovation. In many developing countries, we know that this is a significant challenge. The pandemic has hit the industrial sector very hard and has been destabilising on global value chains. The pandemic has also made the growing digital divide visible in the world. Like Norway, the EU is a central development policy player, and the so-called neighbourhood, development and international partnership instrument, or NDICI, which will apply for the next few years, includes a total of 80 billion. the euro in assistance. Digitalisation, sustainable transport and green energy are key pillars of EU development policy. Achieving the sustainability objectives in developing countries requires significant investment in addition to assistance. The Global Gateway, launched by the European Commission in December 2021, will be financed to some extent through the EU aid budget, but in addition, a large part of the funding will be provided by European financial institutions and mobilised private capital. For the financial period 2021 to 2027, the Global Gateway shall finance projects with a total value of up to 300 billion. euro. The half will go to Africa and support actions for an inclusive green and digital transformation through investments in energy, health, education and research. The Green Transformation Programme includes actions aimed at renewable energy, biodiversity, food security and the reduction of climate vulnerability through adaptation and prevention. It will also, I've been told, focus on the creation of new jobs in order to provide better opportunities for the large young people who are waiting. Within energy, a primary objective will be the development of renewable energy and hydrogen production, as well as support for necessary sectoral reforms. This is very well in line with Norwegian priorities and is an important contribution to achieving both the Paris Agreement and the sustainability objectives. It is essential that investment in infrastructure and large-scale energy projects complies with established international standards. Here, the EU and other like-minded people play an important role. Norwegian assistance does not go through the Global Gateway, but we have a good dialogue with the EU on the implementation of measures that will contribute to green reconstruction and conversion in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1006	A sustained challenge for Norwegian development assistance has been issues of global common good and how they do not qualify as UN-approved assistance. It also affects how much Norway can give to the common good. Does the Council of State consider this a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1011	It is true that there is an increasing international debate on the relationship between the so-called global common good and the ODA-approved aid. I do not feel that this is a pressing challenge in Norwegian development policy, but it is a relevant debate that is going on and that is increasingly coming at home here as well. Achieving the sustainability objectives in developing countries requires significant investment in addition to assistance. There is a need for officially approved assistance, i.e. ODA, but much international funding is also required for global public goods. The government will assess how budgets in the years to come can both contribute to addressing poverty challenges and climate challenges and the need for funding in developing countries in response to climate change. The government has initiated a process of working on these issues and how we can put this into the international debate on global common goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1018	The reason why more issues of particular climate and health do not qualify as development aid is because they affect several countries. At the same time, these measures are important, in fact they may address some of the most important issues in the future. It has, among other things, The pandemic we've just been through, which is still going on, and the development and distribution of vaccines showed us. Is not the EU a natural partner for the work on global public goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1023	It is true, as the representative points out, that the ODA targets the use of assistance in some thematic sectors — which are known — but also in which countries can be included. However, I do not feel that this is a major limitation on our priorities, but it is a debate that is increasingly coming because we need to see development and climate work even more integrated. That is why we are active in the international debate on global common good. With regard to the EU as a partner, I would say: Yes, the EU is one of the world’s leading development policy actors. We have good cooperation at the level of office, and it is quite natural that we also have a close dialogue with the European Union on development issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1039	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1047	Let me first congratulate the Council of State on the work he has done in Nairobi, and wish him good luck in his work on plastic pollution. ‘The Government of the Hurdals Platform writes that it wishes to ‘cut Norwegian emissions at 55 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990, as part of the road towards net zero emissions by 2050. The emissions target concerns the entire economy, including the quota sector’.» What has the government calculated that the increased cost will be by including the allowanceable sector in domestic cut requirements?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1056	Let me first thank you for the congratulations. This is a team victory, after many years of efforts by several Norwegian governments, so we appreciate it. The man-made climate and natural crisis is the biggest challenge of our time, and we need to get the fastest possible emission cut in all fields. It's now a very comprehensive international effort to succeed in all areas. What we're doing by saying that the emission targets in Norway are going to be economical, that is, the whole economy, is not that we're raising them, but that we're saying that more people are going to be involved in reaching them. They are to be shared across the economy because the whole economy has to move towards becoming more renewable, more circular and more sustainable. The year 2030 is not a finished goal, it is a turn bend on the road towards carbon neutrality and net zero in the longer term. We believe that many of the climate solutions are in the industry, in the quota sector, and we see that from important parts of Norwegian industry it has long been argued that they can do much more to reduce emissions there. I would like, among other things: refer to the important report Process21, which talks about halved emissions and double exports from the Norwegian process industry, which are in the quota sector, as well as the agreement concluded with the oil and gas industry in the context of the tax package, where they were to cut 50 pst. of its emissions by 2030. This will also count towards the whole economy. There is not necessarily anything more difficult in the ETS sector than in the non-quota sector. In fact, it can be threshold cut – when a large industrial enterprise e.g. goes from coal-based solutions as a reducing agent to pure hydrogen, or to hydrogen instead of natural gas in heat production, there will be significant overnight cuts on the day they do. We don't have a completely complex cost picture of what it costs, we don't have it either for the non-quota sector, but it's working intensively with this, including with the industry concerned, to find out both what the challenges are, what the opportunities are, and how best to achieve it, including what the challenges are. through what we call climate partnership with business. I want to stress that this is the way it is now going in the entire industrialized world. There is no doubt that those who are able to produce inputs as quickly as possible, such as: zero-emission steel and aluminium or minimum emissions will win in competition over those who still have emissions. So this has gradually become a kind of a race towards the top, and I think it would be very unwise if we continued to fund innovation abroad, when we could use more of the resources to finance innovation and innovation in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1069	Thanks for the answer. I have to say that the intention is good and the goal has always been there, but I react to the fact that one can write such goals in a hopefully committed program without having the competence to what this will cost. Let me ask the Council of State: how much larger are the emissions cuts, when Norway is actually countering the impact of the quota-free sector? The most important question is: does Norway need to do this in order to maintain its international commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1076	Thank you for your question. To take the last one first: No, it is not necessary to set targets for the ETS sector beyond what follows from cooperation with the EU, where we share this through the allowances system. The answer to that is clear and clear. However, we see that very many countries – other Nordic countries, Germany, the United Kingdom and the EU as a system – are now actually providing a number of additional instruments. It has been recognized for the most part that the market alone does not solve this. The quota system is a very good tool, but we want to complement the quota system with additional instruments that make much of this innovation happen in Norwegian industry rather than foreign industry, and that we have jobs in a future low-carbon society. The alternative is that it happens elsewhere first, and that we lose our jobs, because what is happening in the EU is serious: it is intended to transform the economy towards renewable and sustainable. I believe that this is right – to set a kind of additional target in addition to our legal obligations, as a conversion target for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1081	I thank you for the answer, and I thank you for confirming that these cuts in the quota sector are not something Norway is required to maintain our international commitments. We can then only confirm this for an important part of the quota-free sector, the petroleum activity on a Norwegian base. So we don't have any international obligations to implement cuts on Norwegian base and the petroleum activity that's there?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1086	That is not quite correct, with all due respect for the Halleland representative, because we have an obligation to achieve the cuts we can, through the very extensive climate cooperation with the EU, which includes both a concrete climate agreement – as the previous government stated, and which received very broad support in the Storting – and our cooperation on the quota system, where we should actually cut where we can, and we should work solidarity to cut. So we're actually obliged to take these cuts, but the quota system helps us to distribute them between countries. What we're saying now is that the quota system is doing an excellent job. It's starting to bite, because the allowances are now getting so expensive that it's starting to pay off actual emissions, not just paying for them. That trend is going to continue until quota prices get higher and higher and finally astronomical because there are very few quotas left. It's a good idea to prepare Norwegian industry for that future right now, as almost every country that looks like us, now does. There are very few countries left that only refer to the quota system. It was like that before, it's not like that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1096	This question, from the representative of Rauand Ismail to the Minister for Climate and Environment, is raised by the representative of Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1101	‘On Monday, the second interim report of the IPCC was received. Once again, there was a climate report with a very serious message that underlines the need for all countries to strengthen climate policy in the future. The Hurdal platform states: «By 2030, 55 percent of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions will be cut, measured against 1990. This obligation concerns the whole economy, including the quota sector.’;» Can the Council of State say when this objective will be notified to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and included in the Norwegian Climate Act?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1108	I thank you for this question about the world's most important issues, namely how we can achieve the climate goals in time. As we were a little bit concerned with the previous answer, it's not just a question of direction, because the direction is now right, but the speed is too low. You have to speed up, and that's why you have to make strict demands. As of today, we have a climate law, which has very broad support in Stortinget, which sets today's targets. Thus, the non-quota sector is specified for Norway, including through broad cooperation with the EU, and then we have the quota system as well. I just said that we have a national target, which comes from the Hurdal platform, that we're going to achieve 55 pst. throughout the economy, an economic objective. It's not like we're reporting it to the United Nations. It has to do with the fact that our current reporting to the UN is based on a very comprehensive and very constructive cooperation with the EU, and in that cooperation, we believe that it is a good idea to stand on the basic principle of legal obligations, and then we set a target at what we call a conversion target. That's one way to do it that we share with a lot of countries that look like us. Denmark has, for example: a national target of 70 pst. Cut across the entire Danish economy. Germany has a target that is almost as ambitious, 65 pst. for the whole of its economy. This does not mean that these are the targets they have notified to the United Nations, for which Europe operates jointly, and Norway and Iceland have joined in the extensive cooperation with Europe. That being said, as we agreed in Glasgow, we will review our registered climate targets during the year 2022. We have a commitment to it, and we come back in an appropriate way to say whether it also leads to changes in the national reporting provided to the United Nations. So here we're talking about two types of targets. Both apply, both are serious, but one obliges the state outwards, the other is a conversion target for the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1117	Thank you for an informative response, Councillor. It is very important to commit internationally to climate objectives. It gives credibility, and it increases the level of commitment. This is how Norwegian climate policy history is, with all due respect, a continuous series of emissions targets and promises that have been broken, without exception. Does the Council of State understand that there is some concern when the government's signal is that the ambitious objective it has set nationally is not clearly declared to the internationally committed process of which we are also part?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1122	I'm really happy with the opportunity to discuss this with Stortinget, because it's important to find out what's here. So we have a very ambitious goal for the Norwegian economy that the Stortinget has set itself behind by the Climate Act, and it actually applies to the whole economy, but it concerns the whole economy where parts of it are achieved in cooperation with a larger economy, namely the European Union, Norway and Iceland. There is no doubt about it, and it is a committed objective that we should achieve solidarity with the EU in terms of the quota sector and national in terms of the non-quota sector. What this discussion is about is the status of our ambition to achieve at least the average of the cuts in Norway. We reason like a lot of countries so that it can't be that every country thinks that others should do more than them, but it's within the framework of a goal that's really as ambitious. The question is how much is being taken in Norway and how much is being taken with our neighbours in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1129	Thank you again for an interesting follow-up to the discussion. As the council itself pointed out, it is still too small, too late. There is a need for even higher greenhouse gas emissions reductions, and other countries have higher targets than Norway has. The Green Party argues for a significantly higher target. An assessment of this objective shall be made during 2022. Can we imagine that the government is going to increase the cut target that today is 55 pst. And that needs to be higher?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1134	I'm going to stress that we're going to do a thorough, honest and undefiled review of whether the objectives we have are in line with the temperature measurements we've now set ourselves, and the knowledge we now have. It follows from a decision we agreed to take in Glasgow about such a review in 2022, so of course we will. We'll do the grips that are necessary to fulfill it, and we'll of course involve the Storting in it when we get that far. I would like to stress that it is important to recognise that the objectives of Norway are not particularly radical. They are the average European targets. The United States is almost the same place, 52 pst. So Europe is 55 pst. across the economy, across the economy for Europe as a whole. I think that's good, and it could be that more of us are going to have to go further than that. Then we have to remember that some other countries have the advantage that they can still phase out coal. We can't, because we're not using coal, so it's a little bit more demanding to get 55 pst. in Norway than it is to achieve 65 pst. in Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1146	This question has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is the appropriate person.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1151	My question to the Council of State is quite big, but I try: ‘What is the government doing to enable the municipalities to receive refugees from Ukraine in the short and long term, and how does it feel to strengthen the voluntary sector that we know is very important in this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1156	As the responsible State Council for Integration Policy, including the settlement and qualification of refugees, I have been sent the question from the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Districts. We do not know how long the war in Ukraine will last, how many refugees will come to Norway, or how long they will be. Those who come will be settled by municipalities and municipalities. I therefore appreciate the positive willingness of the municipalities to settle several refugees and will cooperate closely with the municipalities on this task. My first priority in this situation is to have residents who are granted a residence permit in Norway as soon as possible. One of the most important things we can do for people who flee from war is to give them the opportunity to get their lives started through rapid settlement, kindergarten, school, education and qualification, the opportunity for work and integration. In order for refugees not to put their lives on hold, it is important that children and young people go to kindergarten and school, and that young people and adults can resume any studies or use their skills in the labour market. The Government will introduce a system of temporary collective protection for Ukrainian citizens seeking asylum in Norway. This provides a faster clarification of the status and rights of those who come. Refugees with this permit are offered housing with public help. They have the right and obligation to introduce and Norwegian training programmes. Municipalities housing refugees receive integration grants and grants for training in Norwegian and social sciences. Here we use a well-established system that the municipalities know, and that ensures that the municipalities are able to cover their expenses. My department is responsible for the cooperation agreement on the reception and settlement of refugees between the State – Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the Ministry of Local and District Affairs and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs – and the municipal sector at the KS. This agreement we will renew this week, and I look forward to signing it with KS on Friday. The IMDI shall contribute to the implementation of concrete work on the settlement of refugees, and to their being settled, managed, disseminated, rapid, efficient and accurate. The National Committee for the Reception and Residence of Refugees, under the direction of the Director of the IMDi, contributes to the coordinated settlement of refugees and has participants from both the State and the municipal levels. The committee convened an extraordinary meeting on 1 March due to the expected increase in housing needs and will follow the situation closely. The IMDI has been commissioned by the Ministry to make the necessary preparations as a result of increased refugee arrivals. The Directorate has sent letters to all the municipalities in the country, where they are encouraged to assess their housing and service capacity, in view of the situation. As I announced yesterday, the government aims to rapidly establish a temporary law to ensure integration measures in the reception phase of those who remain in reception over a certain period of time, pending their residence. In this legislative work, we will also put forward proposals for a simpler pre-housing survey than is currently regulated by the Integration Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1177	I thank you for the answer, and let me also take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the new Council of State. Many Ukrainians have fled to or have been brought to Norway by friends and family who are already living in Norway, and are in that sense already in an integration situation and have a network. That's good. Then it is important that Ukrainian refugees get the opportunity to get out of work as quickly as possible. Today, the fee for applying for a work permit is over NOK 6000, and there may be a high threshold for many to pay when you come to a new country. How will the government facilitate the rapid entry into service of Ukrainians, and the government will assess, for example: temporarily cancelling the fee for the application for a work permit, in view of the current situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1184	There are, as the representative says, many who have already arrived. Many of them have arrived, while some live with friends and acquaintances in private homes. We're not going to make any difference. It is important that everyone who is here should be given the rights, but also carry out the duties they have. At that time, basic knowledge of Norwegian language and social literacy is an important part of it. We closely cooperate with the municipalities on this, and we will follow the situation closely. We also need to consider ongoing measures to look at this. Initially, municipalities and many non-governmental organisations assist in this work. I am very happy that they want it and will cooperate closely with them. Localisation and integration. That's why it's where we're going to follow it up, in that track.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1189	I thank you for your answer. On top of something else: From the last extraordinary refugee reception in Norway, in 2015 and 2016, we remember that the commercial company Hero was one of the actors who really made up and made good money on the situation. At the end of 2015, the company ran a total of 70 receipts, and the top year 2016 resulted in 52 million. kr in profit after tax. The Hurdal platform says: ‘Basic welfare services shall not be commercialised and a new government shall significantly reduce the scope of commercial welfare actors.’;» I'm sure the Council of State knows this. I think it's a good quote, so far, but my questions are: how does the Hurdal platform aim to apply in the light of today's situation? Does the government have a plan to ensure that the ongoing refugee crisis in Ukraine does not end up being a dividend party for commercial companies that will operate asylum recipients?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1201	Now the IMDI is making the necessary preparations within its area of responsibility, as a result of increased refugee arrivals. They include: asked to provide for faster and necessary monitoring of the organisational needs of Ukrainians — their networks in Norway and their competences. We are engaged in this work and have dialogue with the municipalities, for example: through meetings to be both tomorrow and Friday, and then it is important that we listen to them when we see where they can accept them. So I have to split the intention that it's the refugees we're going to help in this situation, and we're going to follow that up, but I also think we have to kind of look in our eyes that we might have to use some private capacity. It depends on the needs of the coming days and weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1212	‘On 4 October 2021 there was a look-up in NRK Møre and Romsdal where the ferry operation in the county was to throw Ap-politan Per Vidar Kjölmoen of the ferry if the promise of halving the ferry tariffs was not fulfilled. From New Year's, there was only a small part of the ferry prices, and the population in the ferries feels thoroughly seduced. Free ferries were also promised for connection with less than 100000 passengers, which has also not been delivered or implemented. Will the Council of State ensure that the Cooling Mound is not allowed to enter the sea, and when is the ferry lifted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1219	In the Questionnaire on 8 December last year, I answered a question that was about the same, from the representative, Sve. That's why the answer is about the same as last December. It is important to remember that the starting point for the so-called ferry uprising was that there had been an increase in prices over the year. It was in the period during which the previous government – the right-wing government where the Progress Party was part of the period – was responsible. The Hurdal Platform states that the government aims to halve the ferries tariffs overall over the four-year period compared to the level from 1 January 2021, and further that it is the State that is to cover the costs. Let us therefore have the tariff level on 1 January 2021 as the starting point for different comparisons, as I do in the following. In the budget proposal for 2022, the Solberg Government decided to reverse parts of the 25 p.m. tariff reduction introduced from 1 July 2021. This arrangement would result in an increase in ferry fares of 12.7 p.m.. at New Year’s. The Solberg government proposed to use 483 million. to reduce ferry tariffs in its draft budget for 2022. With our proposal to adjust the budget for 2022, the ferry tariffs were reduced by 11.7 p.m. during the new year of national road ferries, and provision was made to enable county municipalities to reduce the rates corresponding to those of the county road ferries. The fares are now 30 pst. for travellers below the level of 1 January 2021. To get to this, the Big Government added 489 million. kr in the State budget for 2022. With this arrangement, we have taken a significant step towards achieving the objective of the government platform of halving the ferry prices over the four-year period. The representative, Sve, has also raised the question of introducing a free ferry to islands and a low-traffic connection. For this, it's set of 30 million. kr in the budget for 2022, and the government will come back to the Storting in connection with the revised national budget on how to use these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1232	I think we're very clear about what's on the Hurdal platform, and what's been the basis of the government's response, both in the past and now. But for the people and industry who use the ferries every day, there is a dramatic situation, in view of the fact that electricity prices have gone to heaven, fuel prices are sky-high – over 23–24 kr per litre now – and the ferry prices have a real cut of less than 10 pst. Compared to 2021/2022. Normal people and business measure what they pay every day they run. In debates in the election campaign, a cut of 50 pst was also promised. That one then goes back to 1 January 2021 after that, is very special, but we register it. Does the government really want to cut the ferry prices by 50 pst, so people want to mark it from the level they have at any time?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1239	Both the representative Sve, the undersigned and the Stortinget have constantly discussed reductions in holiday prices on the basis of 1 January 2021. Thus our holiday vow is also designed in election campaign, and so the Hurdal platform is also designed. We've actually spent almost 0.5 billion. kr to get a step towards that goal. That is quite good, and the representative should also acknowledge that it is. This has led us to approach a reduction of 12 pst. measured against the pre-New Year level. That means there's still something to do to make the holiday promise come true, but we're doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1244	Maritim Association has created a large towel for the representative Kjölmoen where it says that if one does not comply with the 50 percent, he will end up in the sea. The danger of him getting into the sea is obviously very large, because one still calculates from 1 January 2021, and then I think we'll have to wait in suspense for what's going on there. I have a question about a release project. There are a number of areas which are connected to the mainland with the ferry release project, with a basis in the ferry tariffs that have been in place. Will the Council look at the tariffs and the ferry exit model in the light of the fact that the ferry tariffs will also fall? They will, and it's good that they go down, but we disagree about the level. Will the government look at the suspension system at the ferry prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1251	I registered at least that Sweep now gave us recognition to reduce the ferry prices, and that seems to me to be a positive step on the way. Then I would like to comment that although I could have personally enjoyed seeing the representative Kjölmoen bathing, I do not think that is a good enough argument for not keeping our holiday promises, which we intend to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1261	‘Right, Left and Christian People’s Party added rv. [[new tunnel]] 15 The strenuous mountain in its NTP proposal, with 500 million. kr to start in the first period. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the other Party have also said that they support the project starting at the beginning of the period. In Loen on 11 February 2022, the State Road Administration informed that planning will only start in 2025. It's too late to start tunneling in the first period of NTP. Will the Council of State now ensure that planning can be advanced so that the tunnel construction can be started in the first period?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1268	With regard to the proposal to give priority to new rv. 15 now, I would first like to point out that in the national transport plan there are only named projects that start up the first six years of the planning period. At the same time, there is also a pot of funds that has not been distributed in the last six years of the period. Challenges and ambitions for the transport corridors are presented in the Storing Message. On the basis of the challenges, objectives and economic frameworks mentioned in the NTP, the State Road Service shall develop strategies and plans for new investments that address the challenges as best as possible. A KVU has been developed for Rv. 15 Wrestlers. Furthermore, an external quality assurance, KS1, has been implemented, and in 2018 the government concluded that concept B1, with a tunnel from Skåre to Breidalen and an arm to Geiranger, should be taken into account for the further planning of Rv. 15 Wrestlers. The project is not mentioned in the NTP. Nevertheless, it is up to the State Road Administration itself to assess the projects to be undertaken under the planning and construction law in the framework of the national transport plan. On 8 February of this year, the State Road Administration published its implementation plan for 2022-2027 for National Transport Plan 2022-2033. The plan includes a planning programme showing all projects to be planned under the Planning and Building Act. Here's Rv. 15 The strynebergellet is mentioned in the summary planning of national road projects for the period 2022 to 2077 with planned activity in 2024. The state road authority notes that projects with a level start-up after 2022 can both be postponed and accelerated, and that projects can be taken out and new ones can be introduced. In addition, this section is referred to as a current project starting in the last six-year period. The review of the National Transport Plans 2022-2033 proposed the prioritisation of a number of projects in addition to the portfolio contained in the Storing Communication. In addition, Stortinget has also commissioned us to assess the road portfolio in the national transport plan. I think it is natural to see these things in context and also to look at the road projects as a majority of supported in the comments in the mainstreaming of the national transport plan in this review. I will come back to Stortinget after we have carried out that review. Finally, I would like to remind you that there is no overall agreement on the size adjustment of the NTP, which points to both the extension of the number of road projects and how these are to be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1285	I am aware of the procedure that the Council of State has gone through, and that the strynefjellet is not actually mentioned by name in the NTP. I am also aware that planning needs to be started on a different basis, based on the boundaries of the State Road Administration itself, and not least a signal from the Council of State, if one is to start building before the first period in which it is about to expire. The review that the Council of State had is basically just a review of the actual situation and how practice and regulation are. But the question, if the Council of State will give a signal to the State Road Administration to elaborate on this so that one can start construction in the first period, the Council of State has not answered. Therefore, I ask again: will the Council of State take the initiative to promote planning so that construction can take place in the first period?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1292	I do not agree that I did not respond to it, because in conclusion in my post I referred to the fact that the government has received a mission from Stortinget to go through the road portfolio on the basis that we should ensure that we reach our climate targets and that we have the right arrangements and the right limit for four-field roads etc. In this context, I have on a number of occasions signaled to the Storting, and also here, that we will then review these projects as there are majority comments behind, and see whether they should be included in the portfolio, or whether there should be re-priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1297	The Council of States can tell us what time we will then be able to get a more concrete answer that is just about whether we can suggest planning for Rv. 15 The Stryne Mountain Road?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1302	I don't want to now give an exact timeline on it, but we're going to give a mission to the State Road Service in this field, and then we'll come back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way when it's ripe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1310	This question is from the representative Ola Elvestuen from the Left to the Minister for Oil and Energy Terje Aasland, whom we can then welcome to the Stortinget as the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1315	I would also like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on its position as Council of State within a field that he knows very well. There's no transition time, so then the question is: ‘The last week has shown that energy policy is also a security policy. The government has set down an energy commission that will mainly look at national energy policy conditions, but will not focus on how our energy policy at home affects the countries around us. In view of the new security situation in Europe, is it appropriate for the Council of State to extend the mandate of the Energy Commission to assess also the impact of Norwegian energy policy on European security policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1324	First of all, thank you very much for your congratulations, both from the representative of Elvesuen and the President. I really appreciate that. The rug that is now unfolding is very dramatic. Over the past few weeks, we have seen that the critical and very worrying situation in Ukraine affects energy markets to a large extent. The war has already determined energy and power prices, both in Europe and in the rest of the world. There is no doubt that both our power system and national energy policy conditions are affected by conditions in the countries around us. This will be the basis for any analysis we will take on the power market and energy policy in the future. We are in close contact with our neighbouring countries, friends and allies on the energy situation, and Norway, as the representative of Elvesuen also knows, traditionally has good energy cooperation with EU countries, and with the United Kingdom and the United States. We now experience that this is really stronger than ever. Trust actually means a lot. The situation we are in also shows how important it has been with good cooperation over time. This is something the government of course will continue. The Government has appointed an Energy Commission with a broad mandate. Overall, the Energy Commission shall assess how Norway’s long-term power supply will be affected by the rapid change of energy markets. Of course, trust between countries in this respect and how one also assesses the security policy aspect will be reflected in that type of assessment. We will also look at the perspective of energy consumption development and the real policy potential for new socio-economic profitable power generation. The Commission shall also look at the security of supply perspective and key conflicts of interest in energy policy. One of the main tasks of the Commission will be to assess what are the fundamental dilemmas of Norwegian energy policy up to 2030 and 2050, and how different policy choices can influence the long-term development of Norwegian power supply. These assessments shall include, inter alia: be based on an up-to-date factual basis from the evaluation of the power situation in 2021 and 2022. I believe that the mandate adequately covers energy policy concerns we will face in the coming period, and how this turns out in the dramatic situation we are now in. As the representative of Elvesuen is aware, the experience we are now making in the current situation in Europe will also affect what will be an important energy policy theme in the future. I therefore do not now see the need to change the mandate of the Energy Commission. The mandate covers a wide range of issues and addresses several of the main challenges we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1341	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. I fully agree that there is a very broad mandate and spectrum that we need to look at – and that is what we need to do, there is no doubt about it – and in particular how the new situation affects our markets. There's really just one perspective that I'm going to ask for a little bit clearer answers to. It is not just about how this affects Norwegian energy policy or our system, but about having a Europe that is now actively ending its dependence on Russian gas. Will it then be in the mandate of the Energy Commission how Norway can most actively help Europe to end this dependence as quickly as possible, that it is a proactive will, and how can we contribute to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1348	I agree with the representative Elvesuen that Norway's behaviour in the situation we are now in means a lot. We need to be predictable, long-term and credible energy suppliers to Europe, so that, to the extent that they are able to do so now, they can free themselves from dependence on the extreme situation in Ukraine and against Russian energy supplies. Stability and trust are essential, and seeing that picture in the context of the evolution of energy markets in the future is already within the mandate of the Energy Commission. So I think it would be natural for the Energy Commission to assess the security picture in Europe, how we should approach that situation as well. I think it is a very significant political responsibility to take on to help Europe break free from the addiction associated with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1353	There may also be political disagreements here, for example. a discussion about hybrid cables and transmission cables, which will be part of this. The last question concerns what the Commission must also bring with it, which are the climate objectives that we are going to achieve at the same time. Last week’s United Nations climate report shows that the seriousness is even greater than that previously reported. Now we have a discussion about emission cuts on the base. My question is not really how to do it, but if the Council of State insists that we should reach the commitments we have made, both with the climate agreement with the EU and what we have notified to the UN, and also with the Hurdal platform, and the decision in Stortinget on 50 pst. reduction on the cap and 55 pst. reduction in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1360	I am really pleased with the question, because I want to confirm very clearly in a very serious situation that the climate commitments that Norway has undertaken and what is on the Hurdal platform stand firm. We're going to cut the greenhouse gas emissions by 55 pst, and we're going to cut the Norwegian cap emissions by 50 pst. It gives us an opportunity in the picture now available, both to develop new industries related to liquid sea winds and not least to produce more renewable energy in the future. Now we've just started with Southern North Sea II and we've chosen a solution with power to land. I think that's right, and then we're going to develop that ocean wind potential in a good way. We will immediately get an investigation on the mains power supply in connection with that. The most important contribution we can make now as a nation and a significant energy supplier to Europe is to be credible on the issues we have already committed ourselves to. It is to be a credible supplier of gas in the continuation, while we continue the good electrical cooperation, to use that expression, in terms of power exchange, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1370	‘In May 2021, a unanimous increase chose to join the Progress Party’s proposal to ensure the national production of medicinal products. In the same month, it was also decided to ensure the national production of vector equipment. With today's threat picture in Europe, this is becoming increasingly topical and important. Nevertheless, we see several Norwegian producers who are now shutting down production. This may mean that many lives are at risk of a possible crisis. How has the Council of State been planning to follow up the decisions on enlargement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1377	The government wants to investigate the establishment of a national pharmaceutical company and has ambitions for the development of the Norwegian health industry and industry. At the same time, health services in Norway, as in Europe, need to deal with legislation on public acquisitions and State aid for procurement. It also includes a ban on discrimination against suppliers on grounds of nationality. The market and supply lines for medicinal products are global. We need international cooperation to ensure national access in an emergency situation. The Corona Commission recommended that international cooperation on drug preparedness should be strengthened in the Nordic countries and in Europe. Norway, as our neighbouring countries, has been closely linked to the European pandemic management. A number of new legislation and initiatives are now in place to strengthen pan-European preparedness. It also includes the establishment of the new health and crisis management authority, HERA. HERA shall both operate in standby mode and be ready to deal with a crisis. HERA is then given the overall responsibility for developing, producing, acquiring and distributing the necessary medical response measures to meet our overall needs. It can be anything from medicines and vaccines to medical devices. When our closest collaborators now come together on powerful solutions to ensure access to critical inputs in a future crisis, it is vital for our national preparedness that Norway does not stand outside. Today's threat picture makes it even clearer. The government is therefore actively involved in European cooperation on health preparedness and crisis response, thus responding to the needs of the population. The ambitions of strengthening European preparedness in HERA will also imply the development of the health industry in Europe and Norway. It will also mean opportunities for sustainable production companies in Norway. The funding of the work comes from the programmes in which Norway participates, such as EU4Health and Horizon Europe. It is important that Norwegian actors follow up calls under these programmes. Here in Norway, we want to explore how Norwegian suppliers can be involved in selling their products in Norway and in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1390	I come from a state where there is a company that is involved in pharmaceutical production, which is now in a very critical situation. 80 employees are at risk of losing their job because the parent company has gone bankrupt. I have heard something of the same argument to the Council of State before. It was the same as I got on a written question about this problem. It has been said that there is a desire to work to ensure national drug production in Norway. We do not have so many pharmaceutical manufacturers in Norway today, but the Stortinget is very clear that they want to strengthen it. I feel that the only thing the Council of States refers to is European cooperation and the arrangements that are there. This is not the reason why many people choose to bet in Norway. Then you must be offensive. We have had a big message about the health industry where it was very clear that you want to work with it. Then I will challenge the Council of State: do you think you can get to this with air and love? What concrete measures does the Council of State see need to come in order to get people to set up that kind of production in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1395	Companies selling pharmaceuticals and infectious equipment need customers. They need someone to buy their products. Now we are in a phase of the pandemic where a large part of the population of Norway has received a third vaccine dose, as an example. All the vaccines in Norway have been produced in Europe, so we need to see this in an international context. Enterprises in Hoksrud’s home area may not only sell their products to Norway. It'll be too little. Then there is nothing to live on. We need to do this in European cooperation. It will be in the interests of the companies. It will be in the interests of the citizens because it gives us predictability and safer supply lines, and I think that is the right track. In addition, we want to see whether a national pharmaceutical company can be an operator that can also contribute to cooperation with companies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1400	I have not said anything about not cooperating with the rest of Europe, but I think it is critical that we also have Norwegian producers. Several Norwegian producers have either dropped or are in the process of evaluating their production. We got 200 million. In order to ensure preparedness in Norway, many of these producers – as the Council of State said, they need to have some to sell the products to – thought that some of the money would go to ensure that we still have national production, for example. of infectious tissue coats, of oral bandages and of other things. Companies such as Sfactor, Inovern, ASAP and others — there are not very many in Norway — need to have someone to sell the products to and be sure that they get to sell some of their products. Then you can also compete with others. Then you have to have a contingency agreement. I feel that the Council of State and the government are very much behind. Why are you not more offensive and trying to get some agreements to ensure that you have some production? We saw it under the pandemic when it was empty throughout Europe and the world. Then we needed that equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1407	We are also working to secure production in a crisis event as a preparedness, but we are doing it in European cooperation. This would be a great advantage also for Norwegian producers, because they would then have more access to the market. I think we're talking a little bit past each other, the representative and I. We need to develop a competitive and good health industry in Norway, which means that they must be able to sell their products both to Norwegian healthcare and to other countries’ health services, and that they can mobilise production in a crisis. During the pandemic, Norwegian authorities, through Health South-East, which was given a primary responsibility, made some direct acquisitions. That was justified by a crisis situation. Legally, it wouldn't be in a normal situation, but here we're trying to explore the space for action. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1414	The president reminds us that when the time is up, one should not take a new rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1422	‘In the Hurdal platform, the government has decided to reduce a sample to look at the provisions of the abortion law, the follow-up of women who have abortions, and alternatives to today’s abortion topics. One important factor for SV is that the women's movement is represented. What plans does the government have for when the sample is to be reduced, whether it will be a legislative selection, and when the sample will deliver its report?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1429	I am pleased that SV supports the government's assessment that there is a need to reduce a sample to look at the abortion law and follow-up of women who are taking abortion. As the representative of Hussein is aware, the Hurdals Platform government has decided to set up a sample to look at the provisions of the abortion law, follow-up of women taking abortions, and alternatives to today’s abortion topics. Composition of samples and deadline for delivering closely related to the task of examining the sample. The term of office, the composition of the sample and a deadline we'll go out with as soon as all the elements are in place. I aim that it will happen during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1436	Yesterday it was approx. 10,000 women in Oslo who went on the 8th March train. The main slogan many went under was to remove the denominators: ‘Abort is women’s choice – abolish the denominators now!’ We know from experience from countries with a more liberal regulatory framework that there are no more sensitizers. This debate is therefore only about who should decide whether it is the woman or the denominators, and the abortion students are a distrust of women and control of the female body put in place. I hear the Council of State says they'll do it in the spring, but hadn't this been a happy announcement to go out with in connection with March 8th? Can the Council of State be a little more clear on when in spring? Because now we're in March, and it's not long until spring is over and we officially go over to summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1445	Of course, it would have been a very good news to go out on March 8. The representative of Hussein is probably aware that the Hurdal platform also states that the two party groups of the government parties should be set free in a vote on changes to the abortion law. It's not part of the Hurdal platform. The background is that the Labour Party and the Centre have slightly different views on this issue. My task as the Council of State for a government that leaves these two parties is to present this mandate, to put together this selection and to give a mandate on what kind of deadline to work after. I want to do that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1450	The abortion students are based on old-fashioned overrepresentation and have played out their role, as the SV and the Workers' Party agree, and I think there are a lot of other representatives in this room who agree with us. We in SV want a society where women are free, and that it is the ones who decide, and all children who come to the world, to be wanted and welcomed. Norway has the most stringent abortion legislation in the Nordic region. When does the Council of State see that the government can deliver a case to the Stortinget, so that we can realise the promise to remove the denominators?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1455	I hope to put down a sample that will work effectively and well with important issues in order to modernise a law that we have had for 40 years, which has been important, but which the Hurdal platform very concretely says we should investigate changes. I fully agree with the representative Hussein on the place of the denominators in 2022, but I have to deal with the assignment I have as the Council of State. I try to work as quickly as possible, so that the Storting can handle this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1463	‘Today, children with cerebral parasites from all over the country have access to intensive training at Barna’s Physiotherapy Centre in Bergen. When the centre was approved as a free choice supplier, the parents/parents of the children were paid travel expenses and stay expenses and compensation for lost income. How will the Council of State ensure that this important nationwide offer of intensive treatment for children can continue and that it may not be made available only to families with good finances?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1470	This government will terminate the authorisation system in the free choice of treatment. The background is that we do not want schemes that strengthen private actors at the expense of public hospitals. We want hospitals to be open to cooperation with good partners, but that needs to be done on the premises of our community health service. The Barnas Physiotherapy Centre Foundation has one of its offerings funded through the authorisation system free treatment choice. The offer includes intensive training of children with significant impairment due to congenital or early acquired brain damage. The ministry recently met with the management of the Barnas Physiotherapy Center and a pastor who told of good experiences with the offer to his daughter. Parents also reported concerns about future offers to their daughter, who has had many treatment stays at Barna’s Physiotherapy Centre. The government will further develop good cooperation with non-profit actors in the healthcare sector on long-term contracts, based on the quality of the offer made. Patients should still have the right to choose between different public hospital services, and this right should also apply to treatment centres that have contracts with regional health establishments. We must conduct the resolution of free treatment choices in a proper manner. We will focus on the consideration of patients who are being treated by free choice suppliers, especially those who have a longer treatment course. That is why I have chosen to inform you that we intend to wind up the scheme from 2023, so that the hospitals will have time to prepare and possibly extend the purchases from private people. We will come back to the details of the consultation note we are working on. The hearing will allow the approved establishments and users to comment and make recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1485	Thanks for the answer. With regard to the realities of the families we're talking about here, it's like before Barna's Physiotherapy Centre was integrated into free treatment choices, it wasn't an offer for everyone. It was an offer for those who could cover the costs, if you did not live in Bergen and its surroundings and were so lucky that you knew about it. What's the challenge is that here come kids from all over the country to Bergen to practice intensively. They should bring their parents. It won't be easy if you don't get covered stay, as you get through the system today. I still find it very difficult to understand how the Barna’s Physiotherapy Centre should be able to conclude agreements with all healthcare companies throughout Norway, when these children in today’s system are offered very simple and unbureaucratically through free treatment choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1492	We have healthcare services that are centralised, both regionally and nationally, so I don't see the same challenges that Tone Troeen does. We have said that we must engage in dialogue with those treatment institutions that fill a need and look at solutions. This is an actor who has had an agreement with Health West before the authorisation system was introduced free treatment, and then they have one of their offers through the so-called free treatment choice system, which we want to liquidate. Then it's right of us to engage in dialogue with the actor. It's a mission we've given to regional health companies. We have also given a mission to look at national offers within the contractual environment used by regional healthcare companies in relation to private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1497	These aren't challenges that just I see. These are the challenges I got presented by parents and children when I visited Barna's Physiotherapy Centre just a few weeks ago. I saw how Live and Michelle trained, and the parents and Live told her what it meant to her in her everyday life. What is a paradox is that our common public health service does not provide this offer, and many of the children and parents who are at Barna's Physiotherapy Center in Bergen do not get that offer locally. Therefore, the system of free treatment is their ability to get to a competent place that gives them exactly the training that children need. That's why I sometimes know such sadness that the Council of State thinks that free treatment choices are not suitable for a good health service. Here we see that it is precisely this system that provides these children with what they need – no matter where they live, no matter how good parental advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1502	Here I think the representative Treen generalises very, both in terms of what the Council of State should have said and meant, and what are the realities. We've also met our parents and the actor who's been talking about this, and they think they're doing a good and formidable job. They have provided good treatment through agreement with Health West for many, many years. If the right-wing government had not introduced the privatisation reform of free treatment options, there would also be a very topical discussion if this had not become a national offer that provided opportunities for children in other parts of the country. But to present it as if we don't care about the patients, I don't think it's a level of debate that serves the case. In our common healthcare system, everyone needs good help – the help they need from their starting point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1510	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and is as follows: ‘Does the Council of State wish to contribute to the development of the new climate calculator by many operators in Norwegian agriculture as quickly as possible to be used by as many farmers as possible and as a basis for the work on climate change in Norwegian agriculture, or does the Council of State agree with Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers that the climate calculator is a little desirable, in practice a ‘greenwashing’ of an undesirable agricultural policy and therefore should not be pursued?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1517	The agricultural organisations concluded a climate agreement with the government of Solberg in June 2019, and agriculture was among the first industries in Norway to enter into such an agreement. There is a target for reducing emissions and the carbon capture shall be increased corresponding to 5 million tonnes of CO 2 for the period 2021 to 2030. The climate agreement with agriculture is also the basis of this government, and in the Hurdals platform we present an ambitious climate policy, and we will introduce concrete targets for emissions reduction for each sector and industry in Norway. Climate action in agriculture is important. Reduced emissions and increased carbon storage shall be pursued, while not harming food production. Norwegian agriculture is intended to produce demand for the consumer, which is the basis for producing in Norway. Therefore, a key principle is to reduce emissions per unit produced. Then the climate calculator becomes important. It was agriculture itself that initiated the work of the climate calculator, and the development of the calculator started already in 2016. The entire width of the agricultural industry is behind the climate calculator, with owners from both the cooperatives and the private sector. The purpose of the climate calculator is to provide the farmer with an overview of the emissions on his farm and the possibilities available, both to reduce emissions and to bind carbon, through different operational choices. Climate advice is important when the farmer uses the climate calculator, and through the regional environmental programmes of the agricultural agreement, a subsidy scheme has now been developed to enable the farmer to apply for grants in order to implement climate advice on his farm. The goal is that as many Norwegian farmers as possible use the calculator and get good advice on what is good climate action on their farm. And yes, that's right, as the representative Bjørlo says; there are larger emissions from some productions than from others. It will still be, and one type of production will not exclude the other. The climate calculator shall primarily be a tool for the farmer to make good choices on his farm so that the emissions from production on the farm are minimised. So the purpose of the calculator is not to set different forms of production up against each other. Finally, I must stress the importance of the fact that agriculture has a documented impact of the measures actually implemented in agriculture and which actually work. Then such a climate calculator is a very important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1535	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I would first like to say that I am very pleased that the Council of State is so clear that the climate calculator is a good and important tool for the major changes that agriculture is about to undergo. It's important, but the time is moving fast towards 2030 and the tough climate targets we have for the whole of society and for the whole of Europe. It is now two years since the agricultural climate plan was presented. In that plan, the climate calculator was one of the important tools that was raised, and I have to say that I am a little upset that we now, two years later, suddenly see that there are even discussions going on. There is disagreement between the two major organisations about this in general is a good measure. It turns out that this was actually the Farmers' and Small Users' team across the street, they didn't believe in it. And that makes me nervous when two of the ten years we've been wearing have gone, and there's even just a lot of internal friction in agriculture about the plan one suggested two years ago. So what will the Council of State do to make sure that agriculture is at the heart of the climate plan and that it follows up the climate objectives set there?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1544	First, I would like to say that agriculture is already doing a lot, and I would like to emphasise once again that agriculture is actually the only industry in Norway that has a binding agreement with the state on climate reduction. It's important, and that's good. Then, of course, agriculture has also said that there is a lack of tools. Because the previous government left no tool in that toolbox, this government has recently said that we should establish Bionova, which is to be the agricultural toolbox, precisely in order to implement important climate action on our own farm, and not least that we have a climate advice that also helps the farmer to make the right choices. So the government is now working in the initial phase to figure out what Bionova is going to be and how it's going to be organized. I am very pleased that we have prioritised it already in the budget now, and it is going to be an important work to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1557	It is quite right that agriculture should have a great reward for having concluded an agreement on climate change. I thought that was very, very good. It should also be noted that agriculture is perhaps one of the major industries in which the country has not taken direct action in the form of taxes and economic measures. Agriculture has been screened for it, but has in return got this climate agreement, which I think everyone is now extremely busy being followed up. Bionova is good, but it doesn't replace the climate calculator and other measures, it also comes, but I think we're a few. But I could imagine asking the Council of State for another point in the climate agreement that was concluded in 2019. It says that the government will work to ‘change food consumption in the Norwegian population so that food consumption becomes as much as possible in line with national dietary councils’. So I would like to ask the Minister, who is also the Minister for Food, if she can confirm that this change in food consumption so that it is in line with the national dietary councils, stands firm, even if there is now a possible revision of the dietary councils in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1566	My main job is to contribute to Norwegian food production and, not least, to increase self-sufficiency to 50 pst., which is also an ambitious goal in the Hurdal platform. I am very concerned that the climate action we are doing, including in agriculture, should not go beyond food production. There is also an important element in this debate, and also, when we see the world situation, how important food production in each country will be in the future. We must not underestimate that. So more Norwegian food production is what we've been calling for, and then we can't introduce climate measures that are just reducing food consumption. So the government wants to make assessments all the time. Now we have not received the new diet boards, but I am very clear that what we do in the climate should not go beyond Norwegian food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1576	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘We have to expect a high number of refugees to Norway soon. Many of the refugees must receive asylum. The government must quickly ensure that sufficient capacity is built up. In recent days, I have been told that operators are ready to scale up their reception capacity, but that they have not received the necessary clarifications from the foreign authorities and the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It's urgent to get this in place. Will the government quickly ensure that the necessary permits are granted to start building up the reception capacity?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1583	The government is building up the reception capacity to receive refugees from Ukraine. We will meet those people who have lost their homes, with warmth and care, and we will also do so in a responsible way and facilitate the practical everyday life that both refugees and people around Norway will meet will go ahead as well as possible. The cruel invasion of Ukraine has already led to more than two million people leaving the country. There's also reason to think that this number is going to increase considerably. Although we assume that most will flee to Ukraine's neighbouring country, which is the pattern we see so far, we must also expect that there will be a significant increase in arrivals in Norway in the future. The government is following closely the developments and we are committed to being well prepared to accommodate asylum seekers coming to Norway. Operational responsibility for accommodation lies with the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. In order to ensure that the UDI is best prepared to deal with a larger number of asylum seekers, I asked shortly after the war broke out that UDI should start the process of acquiring additional reception capacity. This has been absolutely necessary to adapt to the current situation, where arrivals to Norway have already increased, and we need to be prepared for a larger increase in the time to come. Now that we're doing the scaling up, it's also important to say that the number of reception places will not necessarily be the same as the number of refugees we receive. We also look at other things, such as direct housing and accommodation in private homes. UDI now uses existing framework agreements which allow for the rapid acquisition of new receptions. In addition, in the last few days there has been an urgent need for rapid reception facilities, and the UDI has implemented rapid processes related to it. Competition has already been announced for a large number of additional emergency accommodation sites, and the UDI is also in a process of rapid disclosure of further competitions. It is good to see that the UDI experiences a great deal of goodwill in the market, from providers of reception, municipalities, hotels and others who have available and suitable building mass. The government has decided to introduce a temporary collective protection scheme in Norway that will enable us to cope better with a mass migration situation when it comes to both procedural and reception capacity. It will contribute to short stays in the reception of asylum because Ukrainians covered by the scheme will be able to obtain a rapid residence permit and can thus also be settled. It is good to see that municipalities are on the supply side, and the Directorate for Integration and Diversity, which is under the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, should monitor the settlement capacity of all municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1600	Thanks for the answer. I also share the satisfaction that the municipalities and also others now say that they can quickly scale up, but I still feel that they have questions about how much they should scale up, when they get a clear signal on whether to scale up or not. The Council of State says that more reception places should be quickly acquired. I'm wondering how fast you're going to do it, and what number of places the UDI is now making sure it's scaled up by.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1605	We've been doing it a long time ago. The first round of competition in reception places has already been, it has been concluded, and in that round, 8 000 seats were acquired. There will also be more competitions. As I said, we are following the situation carefully, because the situation related to migration flows is still moving. There can still be more people as refugees from Ukraine. It's likely with the evolution we see there. We need to prepare for different scenarios for Norway as well. We can imagine a scenario where there is a significant number coming to Norway, and we need to be prepared and take into account that the situation can evolve in that direction in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1610	I fully agree that the government must prepare for a significant number. There is also the background that the Right has asked these questions repeatedly. It's positive that you've gone to the purchase of 8 000, but I think it's necessary for the government to see if you can scale up even more, even faster. When the Council of State says that there are 8,000 places, I wonder what time horizon you can scale up to the 8,000 places. In the previous answer, the Council of State said that new competitions would soon be published. Then my question is, when are these competitions to be published, and within what time horizon is the construction of these places?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1615	Competitions will be brightened during the next few days. When the representative asked his question, which was last Thursday, the situation looked completely different. The government has worked a lot with this over the weekend, through this week, the three days that have gone by this week. There is an increase every day in this respect. There are also many questions where we are working on finding good devices, for example. how private homes can be part of the preparedness to receive a potentially very large number of refugees. Then I understand that there are many questions about the concrete. We're going to be very careful to quantify some potential scenarios for Norway, for good reasons, and we're preparing to deal with those who travel to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1620	The ordinary Questionnaire has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-09.ana.ud213e1634	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
