ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e39	Three permit applications are available: from Representative Audun Lysbakken on parental leave from 19 April to 17 June from the representative of Mimir Kristjánsson on parental leave from 19 April to 17 June by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Jorod Asphjell – there is no parental leave there [[muttering in the hall]] On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hordaland: Sara Bell, 20 April-17. June For Rogaland: Emma Vatne, April 20-17. June For Sør-Trøndelag: Steinar Krogstad, 20–21. April
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e81	The representative of Morten Stordalen will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e86	On behalf of the representatives Hans Andreas Limi, May Helen Hetland Ervik, Frank Edvard Sve, Marius Aron Nilsen, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I would like to make a proposal on MC as a practical transport option that should be available to more people. Secondly, I would like to make proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the representatives of Frank Edvard Sve, Hans Andreas Limi, Marius Aron Nilsen and myself on better framework conditions for the veteran vehicle.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e93	Sofie Marhaug will put forward three representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e98	Thank you, I brought you two suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e103	I think it's going very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e108	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgensen, Tobias Drevland Lund and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on independent impact assessments in wind power cases. And on behalf of the representative Geir Jørgensen and myself, I would like to propose a representative proposal on the ground and sea cables as an alternative to the air line in the construction of central networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e115	And then the last proposal – please. [[Representative Marhaug gets the proposal by the President]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the representatives of Björn Moxnes, Mimir Kristjánsson and myself, I would like to propose a representative to close down the bankruptcy law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e128	The representative, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, will then put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e133	On behalf of the representatives of Sandra Bruflot, Erlend Svardal Bøe, Ingunn Foss, Turid Kristensen, Tage Pettersen, Sveinung Stensland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on better prevention and response to partner drops. And on behalf of the representatives of Sandra Bruflot, Erland Svardal Bøe, Kari-Anne Jønes, Turid Kristensen, Anne Kristine Linnestad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to prevent and reduce loneliness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e140	The representative, Hans Andreas Limi, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e145	On behalf of the representatives of the Progress Party Sylvi Listhaug, May Helen Hetland Ervik and myself, I am pleased to propose that the oil fund should not be used for climate speculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e150	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e155	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Hans Andreas Limi, Per-Willy Amundsen, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Terje Halleland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to take a number of measures to strengthen Norway's defence capabilities and national preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e160	The representative, Nikolai Astrup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e165	With representative proposals, the country must be built! On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Tina Bru, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, Ove Trellevik, Bård Ludvig Thorheim, Linda Hofstad Helleland and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on energy for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e172	The representative of Ingrid Fiskaa shall submit two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e177	On behalf of the big business representatives Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Marian Abdi Hussein and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative solution for cash payments to the population. Then I have just as much pleasure in presenting a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Lars Haltbrecken, Andreas Shelg Unneland, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Kirsti Bergstø and myself on the cancellation of Ukraine's debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e185	The representative Lars Haltbrecken will present a proposal for a representative – there are many today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e190	As the president knows, parts of the Energy and Environment Committee were earlier this week at Svalbard. Some of us felt how hot the water has become outside the New Ålesund. It is therefore time for a few more climate action. I am therefore delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Birgit Oline Kjerstad, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Kirsti Bergstø, Freddy André Øvstegård, Kathy Lie and myself on climate action now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e195	The representative of Himanshu Gulati will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e200	On behalf of the representatives of Erlend Wiborg, Silje Hemdal, Carl I. Hagen and myself, I want to promote a proposal for a representative on a strategy to ensure academic freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e205	The representative, Kathy Lie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e210	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Grete Wold and myself, I have the honour of promoting a proposal for a representative on child protection personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e215	The representative, Marie Sneve Martinussen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e220	On behalf of representatives Björn Moxnes, Mimir Kristjánsson and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to close holes in the Norwegian tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e225	Freddy André Øvstegård will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e230	I would like to promote a representative proposal on behalf of the representatives of Grete Wold, Marian Abdi Hussein, Mona Fagerås, Kathy Lie, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself on measures for increased staffing in schools and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e235	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e241	On behalf of the representatives of Une Bastholm, Lan Marie Nguyen Berg and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to withdraw extension permits on a Norwegian base that are contrary to the Constitution. On behalf of the representative Une Bastholm and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to facilitate a more sustainable cabin life. And on behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on a Norwegian public inquiry into the political valley.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e250	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e255	On behalf of the Progress Party and the major representatives of Sylvi Listhaug, Morten Wold, Hans Andreas Limi and myself, I am delighted to promote representative proposals to provide faster access to medicines for Norwegian patients – and there will probably be more proposals later.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e260	The representative, Dag-Inge Ulstein, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e265	On behalf of the representatives of the Christian People's Party, Olaug Vervik Bollestad, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a stronger effort to combat trafficking in human beings – the slavery of our time. In addition, the same representatives, Mr. Olaug Vervik Bollestad, Mr. Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, would like to propose a proposal to introduce a levy on the re-disposal of food and other valuable areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e272	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President shall draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 3 and 4 on the current map have not been beyond the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that the cases be examined today. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e308	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e315	Although developments on the ground in Ukraine are now becoming ever worse, several of the sub-proposals in the representatives we are discussing here today are naturally caught up in the events. It's disturbingly a change to the worse we see, and the probability is quite great that there will also be further deterioration. I think we're all struggling to take in the cruel pictures from Butsja, but we've heard about similar situations in, for example, the morning hours today. Borodjanka, and the probability is quite great that several cities have experienced exactly the same thing. It is also an international development in the matter. There are increasing penalties both from the EU and from the United States and other countries, and the EU introduced a new sanctions package yesterday against Russian coal and shipping. The United States introduced new sanctions against Russian financial institutions and individuals. When the war evolves as it does, it is all the more important that Europe and our allies stand together in our response, our condemnation and sanctions policy. It is equally important that we continue the strong support for Ukraine, both politically and economically, and not least that we continue to donate the military material we have the opportunity to donate, because the Ukrainians need the opportunity to defend themselves. Ukraine is a big country. Now it has approx. Three to four million refugees out of the country, many refugees in the country, but that is still about. 37 million people left in the country. Then it is also important that we contribute to keeping the country going, ensuring the functions of the state, helping people to get wages, getting health care, school, etc. Therefore, it is important that, in parallel with the acute handling, we also think about how we can support the operation of the Ukrainian state during the war. There is complete agreement in the United Kingdom on the measures taken by the government to increase humanitarian aid, donation of weapons, etc., but there is always a need to assess whether more can be done and whether things can be done more quickly. I feel that there is also the intention behind the proposals for representatives, even though they were promoted at a time that was thus before the invasion of Ukraine. It is positive that the government also has increased support for a country such as Moldova, which is extremely vulnerable, with about a quarter of its population. One hundred million. kr. As the rapporteurs also point out in the vote, several of the proposals will affect the foreign policy prerogatives of the government. I also feel therefore that the proposers will not re-examine part of the proposals, but more stress the importance of the government acting collectively and quickly and continuing to inform the Storting on a continuous basis about developments. It is also positive that the government is now considering stepping up support for Georgia through its own contributions and the cooperation package Substantial NATO-Georgia Package in close cooperation with our allies, and that it is in favour of a possible Black Sea strategy in NATO. It is important that the government follows up both our role as an ally, as we have discussed several times in different forums in the Stortinget, and not least the support we can give directly to Ukraine. When we stand with Ukraine and the rest of Europe, it is important that we be able to keep that attention forward as well. There is a real danger that the situation now turns into a more frozen conflict, and that the attention in Europe and the world to what is happening and the atrocities committed by Russian forces can be pushed aside from other acute crises. This is precisely why the representative proposals are also very important, even though many of the proposals are made by changes and realities and are not promoted in their present form. The attention to this and the fact that we are discussing it in the Norwegian Parliament, that we are contributing with allies, is one of the most important things we can do now, in addition to continuing the humanitarian support, the political support, the financial support, and also continuing to donate military material we can donate, and which Ukraine sorely needs in its struggle for its freedom, sovereignty and independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e334	Of course, most foreign policy debates a day are somehow about Russia's illegal war against Ukraine because it is the most important thing that happens. In Europe it will be one before and one after 24 February. We see it in the debates here on the Stortinget; almost no matter what the theme of all committees comes into the war in Ukraine. This is not least our work in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. We saw it in the debate yesterday, which was about Nordic cooperation, we saw it in the debate on the foreign statement, and we see it in all the debates on defence and preparedness. We all follow the war day by day and hour by hour. The situation is constantly changing on the ground, which means that policy too needs to change. This means that the promotion of representative proposals is a good basis for debate, but it is not a good basis for making political changes – simply because proposals can be out of date almost on the same day as they have been promoted. We've been using instruments for the last two months that I don't think any of us would have to use. All of us who have commented on the war in the last month have probably experienced that the durability of our statements may not have been very long. Weekend 26-27. In February, there were no parties at Stortinget who were followers of sending weapons. On 28 February all supported the decision to do so, with the exception of SV and Red, and today only Red is still opposed to it. But it's not primarily we who change; it's the reality that does. The brutality of war knows no limits, so we have to keep looking at what more we can do. So I would like to thank the government – the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, who has gone ahead – for being able to keep both their heads cold and warm, that they are able to make fast and difficult decisions, and that they are able to do so in close cooperation with other countries. This we're dependent on meeting together, and that's exactly what the force is. I know that the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes right from travel to Brussels and Berlin. It is very important that we continue contact with other allied countries in NATO, in Europe and in the EU, and not least that Norway has taken on the important work we are doing in the UN Security Council. I would also like to thank all the parties on Stortinget, because I think we have a very good and trusting relationship. It's a strength for us to look at this war with the same eyes. We have respect for each other's views, and we largely share both the view of reality and what kind of instruments we should use. We do that when we meet in this room, we do it when we meet in closed rooms, and we do it when we debate the matter in the media. The war puts us on a huge test, and the fact that we stand together makes it easier for Norway to meet this. We have to keep doing that, because the most demanding thing is in front of us. Ukraine is going to need more and more support, and we will continue to give it, both now and when the war finally ends. And then we're going to be there for other countries in the region that are very vulnerable. Finally, in the Prime Minister's statement to the Stortinget, he began with an excerpt from Nordahl Grieg: «War is contempt for life.» We now see that every day. It's really despised for life what we see in the pictures that strike us from Butsha and from other places. They're so bad that they're barely getting it, but that's what's real. Of course, it is condemned by the strongest of us all. The responsible must be held accountable and the heroic struggle of the Ukrainians must continue to be supported. In the next lines of Nordahl Grieg's poem To youth, which means too many in Norway, he says, "War is contempt for life, peace is to create, throw your forces in, death is to lose." Today we say the same again, for peace will eventually win, death will lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e349	First, I would just like to state that the Russian attack on Ukraine is a serious violation of international law and has dramatic consequences for the population of Ukraine. I share the views of the representatives that Norway has both a moral responsibility and a strong interest in helping to stop the Russian invasion and secure Ukraine's sovereignty. This means that Norway must respond both to Russia and contribute with support to Ukraine. It has followed up government and growth throughout this period in a good way, which means that the proposal, which has been discussed by many, is not current as the situation is right now. However, what has happened is that together with its partners and allies, Norway has introduced a historically strong sanctions package that affects Russia. This is one of the most important measures available to the international community to respond to Russia’s violations of international law. Many people might think of it as a matter of course that you can get these things done quickly. It is not, but it has happened quickly, and it has been collected. Those who have stood by and worked for an effective sanctions package have managed to do so in a good way. In meeting the very serious, precarious humanitarian situation, Norway has also decided to set aside up a budget of up to 2 billion. kr to remedy the humanitarian situation and help people escape. The government has decided to provide temporary collective protection for Ukrainian refugees, because it is also part of the war, it is also part of the consequence of the war, that we here in Norway have to accept refugees in a good and dignified way. The municipalities have been set up and they are already in the process of resolving this task through dialogue with our rapporteurs. I'm sure that obstacles are quickly cleared by the road, because that's what it's really about. When people are critical and say something that's going to get better, it helps clear the roadblocks. We also stand up for people on the ground in Ukraine and for the legitimate defence struggle in Ukraine. In the past, Norway has been restrictive in its practice of exporting defence equipment, but Ukraine is now in this exceptional situation. The specific measures we have taken have meant 4,000 pan-server weapons to Ukraine, a weapon system that we know works in the situation they are currently in. The Government considers ongoing further support, including new donations of defence equipment and, where appropriate, weapons or means for which Ukraine can acquire weapons. These are continuous assessments. Of course, Russia’s invasion also has consequences outside Ukraine. In view of Russia’s mobilization along the Ukraine-Russia border and between Ukraine and Belarus, NATO has increased its presence in the region. Norway is also contributing with its reinforced contribution to Lithuania. This whole thing is also important to bring with it into the next phase, which we're probably now going into, where the Russians are reorganizing and maybe will go to a new counteroffensive. Norway has had over time dialogue with Ukraine as well as with related allied countries on strengthening Ukrainian cyber capabilities, and we will continue this dialogue with Ukraine and with related countries to explore opportunities to support Ukraine’s digital defence capabilities and resilience. This must also be viewed against the intelligence support given to Ukraine, which means that they can be precise when carrying out their counter-attacks against Russian forces. This is a whole that has gradually come into place in the operation. What happens around us requires a detailed understanding of a complicated and demanding situation that changes from hour to hour. The situation in Ukraine is inconclusive. It evolves rapidly. Norway is also not alone in taking specific measures in what we now experience as a paradigm shift in the security policy image in Europe. Further action by Norway must take place in line with rapidly changing developments and in consultation with our allies and partner countries. All we know is that the picture over the next few days, weeks, months and years will not be as we imagined. It is therefore very important that the entire apparatus now in motion has the ability to change course quickly if needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e368	These proposals are essentially to open doors. However, it has been seen that there is a lack of emergency equipment in Norway — military emergency equipment — and we can promise one thing at a time, but it is true that these emergency stores are so empty, and we have to admit that. This is why the Progress Party today has been promoting more concrete proposals that ensure better emergency equipment and more emergency equipment. In one proposal we say: ‘The government is asking for increased preparedness capacity for the storage of necessary emergency equipment, including the establishment of emergency arrangements with commercial operators.’; We also say, in suggestion 10: ‘The government asks the government to set up emergency storage facilities for input materials.’ It's because if you don't have input material, i.e. components and other things, we are not able to wage war more than a few days. To be able to wage war for up to 30 days – before the Americans come here to Norway – it costs 28 billion. kr. I hope that's what the big room notices when we're going to deal with the proposals of the Progress Party, so that you don't just populistly reject it, but go into the substance. With regard to the Left's proposal to grant 1 billion. kr, there is a figure taken out of the air, simply because all countries donate material to Ukraine. No one has asked for payment for material. Whoever does that would hear it pretty loud. All you can imagine is that there's a collection of cash if the United States, who donates the most, thinks they should be compensated for this in some financial way. But as of today, it's really just like saying who can help the most, voting on our proposal, and some could say two billion, other five billion. One billion is just as stupid as two. Then there's another reality, and that's that there's queue to get ammunition. You could say you have to get ammunition for standby. Today there are three to five years' queues for ammunition, for example. from Nammo. We don't have ammunition. They cannot produce ammunition. It makes them have commercial agreements that go all over the Nordic region. They cannot give priority to Norway rather than Finland and Sweden, and it is therefore necessary to increase capacity. Then they need to invest. That's why we have proposal 8, which says the following: ‘The government is asking the government to reduce the lead time for the production of ammunition by NAMMO and to ensure that NAMMO receives the financial support it needs to increase its production and storage capacity.’ It's $500 million. kr for Nammo to invest to increase capacity, but they are not willing to do so until they have customers who are safe – not just words. Besides, it takes a long time. Then the government on the track must grant the money Nammo needs to increase the ability to strengthen capacity and produce more ammunition – not just talk. It's very important. The war in Ukraine has also shown that Russia has a relatively weak defence. I think it's surprised a lot of people. Russia's defence, which we all feared very strongly, has shown that it is now on the right track. It shows that they are engaged in cruel war instead, because they are unable to do anything else. What you can fear, of course, is that they use more serious, terrible weapons because they can't win a war on the ground. But it also shows something about the motivation to wage a war. Ukraine's heroic war to defend its own country wins over many military forces with unmotivated soldiers from Russia. We have to notice that. We must be motivated if we are to win a war. Then it's important that we also in Norway be able to mobilize the whole community because something we know is serious, and something that can happen once in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e394	I would like to start by thanking the Committee and the rapporteur for a quick examination of our two representative proposals. I am pleased that we could use these proposals as an opportunity to give the government a broad mandate to support Ukraine and the other countries in the region. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for her frank and frank assessment of our proposals. Of course, it is the government's prerogative to make decisions in the war in which we stand. That is why we have not promoted any of the proposals in the Committee's deliberations. It is a strong force in Norwegian democracy that the position and opposition can hold a constructive and orderly debate, even in demanding foreign policy debates as this is. The fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken the Storting seriously is something I very much appreciate. The war in Ukraine is undoubtedly cruel, and the documented cases of war crimes such as terrorism. Human Rights Watch has gone out with, has shaken an entire world. It makes the impression that Ukrainians go to war to defend both their own and – in the utmost sense – our common freedom in Europe. It is important for me to stress once again that in this war we are all Ukrainians, and our common enemy is not the Russian people, but the dictator who sits in the Kremlin, namely Vladimir Putin. Together with the representatives of Elvesuen and Högstøl, I am promoting a proposal to step up Norwegian support for Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. This was promoted a week before Putin started his war of attack in Ukraine. Despite the fact that a lot has happened since then, I feel that all the proposals are at least as relevant now as they were then. The regional perspective and the need for long-term support for these three countries have not diminished, although, of course, the war makes the need to rebuild Ukraine incredibly much bigger than we could have imagined on 17 February. The second proposal was promoted by the representatives of Elvesuen, Högestøl, Bjørlo and myself on 1 March and was about exceptional support measures for Ukraine in the light of the ongoing attack war. The proposal addresses a number of urgent support measures for Ukraine as well as proposals for additional sanctions aimed at Russia. Here, too, I feel that the Council of State has assessed the proposals we have made with an open mind. There are in particular two suggestions I would like to make in this article. One is our proposal to support Ukraine with money to buy weapons, and the other is the proposal to impose a port ban on Russian controlled ships in Norway. None of these proposals are unique to Norway, both of which have roots in other European countries. I must correct the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who said that no one has asked for money. Well, Ukraine has asked for money, the Ukrainian ambassador has been very clear that they need financial support. There is no doubt that weapons donations are the most effective, but it is also possible to benefit from financial support. Shortly after the war broke out, the EU used the European Peace Facility to channel money support to Ukraine. It is, among other things, intended to give the Ukrainians the opportunity to buy their own weapons to defend their freedom. Norway is not a military superpower, it's limited what we can contribute from armaments, but we're a significant power of money, and we have the ability to support it that way. It takes time to acquire weapons. Therefore, I wish the government had fulfilled this proposal a while ago. But when that is said, I am convinced that it will continue to contribute to strengthening Ukraine's defence capabilities. And when the government's Ukraine package is going to be dealt with in the Storting, we will try to seek a broad majority for our proposal for a weapons billionaire to Ukraine, channelled either through the European Peace Facility or directly to Ukrainian authorities. My liberal party trap, Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas, visited Norway this week. She asked us for Norway to do more, and she said that as long as the war continues and we get the cruel pictures, we haven't done enough. I could not have agreed more with the wise words of my Liberal colleague. The second proposal I would like to mention specifically is the proposal for a port ban on Russian controlled vessels. When we proposed this on March 1st, both the United Kingdom and Canada had agreed to similar solutions. Yesterday it became clear that the EU too is in favour of a port ban. I am disappointed that the government has not decided to impose a Norwegian port ban on its own, but I hope that the government will review the issue again now that the EU has decided such a ban. It is very positive that we have supported under all, most of the EU's sanctions so far, and I hope that we will continue. We should not understate the negative consequences of a port ban nationally. This week I have traveled to East Finland, and I understand the challenge it brings to business, especially in the north. Nevertheless, I think most people will understand the need for even stronger sanctions. It's about doing as much as possible now to avoid the worst possible happening. We owe that ban to the Ukrainians. Let's close Norwegian ports for Russian vessels.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e419	All parties on the Grand Duchy strongly condemn Russia for the war against Ukraine, and for the war crimes in which they are guilty. We also support Ukraine's right to fight for self-determination and peace. In my party, we will always defend international law regardless of who breaks it, of course even when Russia does. Today, we are discussing what was originally the Left's proposal for a request decision, which has since been changed to provide the government with wide coverage for comprehensive support measures to Ukraine and strong sanctions against Russia. Such an overall mandate can be given to all of us by the government, on the basis of the debate we have heard so far. What needs to be clarified is what we think is comprehensive support for Ukraine, and what sanctions against Russia we believe are both strong and targeted. The last first: if sanctions are to be targeted, we need to have a concept of what the goal is. Here are two competing views. One assumes that we're going to try to strangle the entire Russian economy. Such a strategy did not work very well when it applied neither to Iraq nor to Iran, and will probably not work very well now either, firstly because nothing indicates that Putin is more insecure when ordinary Russians get worse, and secondly because the EU is not willing to touch the really large Russian income stream, which is the oil and gas sector, because they are currently dependent on it itself. The second strategy is more appropriate. It's about punishing the rulers behind the war, that is. Putin himself and the billionaires behind him. Russia is probably very suitable for that kind of punishment. The oligarchs have for years looted common Russians and placed the goods in benevolent western countries. Here we can both map, freeze and seize the values, if we have the will to do it. The Red's wish is, therefore, to correct Norwegian sanctions against Putin and his circle of oligarchs. This means that we reject the Left's proposal to shut down all Norwegian ports against all Russian ships, because it will primarily affect Russian fishermen, fishing receptions in Finnmark and the world's last large cod population much harder than it will hit Putin. Instead, we propose an autonomous Norwegian sanctions policy that allows us to distinguish which ships we want to enter Norwegian ports. Thus, we can refuse Putin's friend Vladimir Lisin to unload more than 4,000 tonnes of aluminium in Oslo port, and at the same time let the people-to-people cooperation in the north go as normal. So I noticed that yesterday the European Parliament called for all ports to be closed, and the Minister for Fisheries announced an autonomous Norwegian line, as requested by Red. I think that's very good. It should also be transferred to other parts of the sanctions policy. It is possible, within the framework of the provisions of the Penal Code, that Norwegian penalties should have a broad international dimension. If we want to follow only what the European Union decides, we are promoting a subsidiary proposal that Norway should record the names of the EU's sanctions lists, and if such a channel does not exist at present, as we have heard from the Minister, we hope that such a channel can be set up soon. Finally, Red supports far-reaching humanitarian support for relieving the distress of Ukraine and a large reception of those displaced by the war, just as we are too hard a diplomatic pressure on Russia to end the war. Then we have also asked Norway to take the lead in eradicating Ukraine's debt to both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. It will strengthen Ukraine's economic balance by 130 billion. dollar, i.e. 1,140 times more than the Left's I hope that the Storting and the parties will consider such a proposal. It will be an important handshake to Ukraine to be able to rebuild the country after a devastating war and get on its feet once the war ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e438	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e443	I agree with the Committee's observation that the Russian invasion causes enormous suffering to the Ukrainian people. We are all shaken by the images and reports that are now coming about the assault of Russian forces on civilians in areas from which they have withdrawn. It is important that those responsible for war crimes are now held accountable. Norway has repeatedly condemned targeted attacks on civil and civil infrastructure, including in the UN Security Council. Norway supports Ukraine’s legitimate right to self-defence. It is also in Norway’s security policy interest. Our assistance should help the Ukrainian people to defend themselves. We have donated 4,000 pan-server weapons to Ukraine. We have also sent military material, such as helmets and protective vests. We have also allowed the export of defence material from countries to which we have previously exported. I attended the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Brussels yesterday. Also present was my Ukrainian colleague, who I had not seen since five days before the invasion. Norway shall continue to provide support to him and his people. He made a lot of recommendations about what kind of help he thinks it is important that we contribute, and we will come back with an assessment of this. At this NATO meeting, we also discussed how we can specifically increase support for other partner countries, such as Georgia, which have been mentioned here, Moldova, Bosnia-Herzegovina, which also feel very vulnerable and vulnerable now. Prior to the NATO meeting, I attended a support conference for Moldova in Berlin on Tuesday. It is a country that is in a very difficult situation. It is a Europe's poorest country, and they welcome a huge number of refugees. We've been helping them in the past, and we're going to accept refugees from there. I also announced on Tuesday that we would contribute 100 million. kr. Half of this has to go directly to the authorities of the country. There are now a lot of kids going to school, and they need a place to live, and they need health care. The Moldovan economy is very hard hit by the fact that they stand up for the Ukrainians, and when they stand up for their neighbors, we're going to stand up for them. I share the Committee's view that, together with our allies, we must adapt to a new security reality. Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, NATO has strengthened its presence in Eastern Europe. We have done that to deter further aggression and to make it easier for our eastern allies, such as ours. in Lithuania. The government is constantly assessing how we can best set up our military contributions. Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine also has dramatic consequences for Ukraine’s economy. That's why we're using a few million dollars to provide direct support to Ukraine now. They have problems both in paying the salaries to teachers and those working in hospitals, and in paying pensions and social assistance, among other things. We acted quite quickly after the illegal invasion of Ukraine. On February 24, that happened, and three days later, we decided to release 2 billion. humanitarian aid and immediate action for Ukraine and neighbouring countries. The channels we provide support through include: the International Red Cross Movement. We've seen in a lot of countries that they're doing an incredible job. There are also other organisations that have impressed me, including Caritas, Redd Barna, Refugee Aid and Norwegian People's Aid. Yesterday, in Brussels, I also met those responsible for the coordination work within the European Union. We also make a big contribution there. Coordination of contributions is very crucial in such a situation as we are now facing. We are constantly assessing whether we should also contribute through what is called the EU Civil Protection Coordination Mechanism. We've contributed a lot, and we're assessing how we can contribute more. I don't think I agree that we should have a self-punishment policy. We're going to make our own assessments, we're going to adapt the Norwegian legislation, but I think it's a point in itself that we're together with our allies in NATO and with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e472	I really had this question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs yesterday, but then the Foreign Minister, naturally, was at the NATO meeting, so it was Espen Barth Eide who answered it, but I'll still take it up in this context. For some of the things we now see a very clear picture in Ukraine, in the cities that are now liberated, is that the sexual and gender-based violence, the rapes, the assaults, the tortures have set clear marks. It's not just a side effect of war, which you used to say before, but it's a weapon that is used systematically in war to break down both individuals, families and entire communities. I am very interested to know how the government thinks about how Norway can best support both the victims and not least contribute to an investigation. It is very positive that Erik Møse is now head of the MR Council's investigation of this, but it is also very much required for the victims to tell us. Several Ukrainians now say that the only ones who can actually tell something are those who are already dead, because they can be investigated. The others don't dare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e479	I'm very pleased with this question, because this clearly shows that in such a war as we are now, women are victims of that kind of attack, which they are subjected to through rapes, but we also see that very many are vulnerable to being recruited to trafficking and prostitution when they cross the border. This is why we are contributing in particular through the UN Migration Organisation to prevent some from being recruited into prostitution. So it's like revealing rape as a means of war is part of the investigation. I can only assure you that at the meeting I attended yesterday, it was taken up by a lot of people. There's an increase in the number of female foreign ministers, so I think it has a meaning for how we now focus on the work of investigating what has really happened from the Russian forces inside Ukraine. There we want a special focus, in cooperation with our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e484	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the article. Then I thought I would ask a little more about this with the port ban. Ever since we lifted that proposal, we have also been open that it is an action that will obviously have some negative consequences and that we therefore understand that it is an action that needs to be carefully assessed. I could imagine hearing a little bit more about what assessments have been made by the government, also possible investigations of any exceptions, so that it should not be affected in a very negative way. So what has been the government's assessment of the possibility of imposing a ban on Russian-owned vessels in Norwegian ports? Have any exceptions been considered, and how do we now assess the situation after the EU has said that they should implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e489	I believe that we are introducing joint measures and therefore do not disagree with either the representative of Melby or the representative of Moxnes in the view of sanctions. I believe that there is a point in itself that we are doing it together with other EU countries. It is clear that we have been involved in the discussions on how such a ban should be designed. When we look at this from the Norwegian side, we will consider making some Norwegian adjustments. This is not my constitutional responsibility, so we almost have to get back to Stortinget, and we can also inform about that in different and appropriate ways if that is necessary. But there will be adjustments where there is a need, from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e494	Thanks for posting and reply. We also understand the desire and the need to be together with other countries. So really our question is whether, in addition to that, we can create our own lists on a Norwegian basis of people and institutions that we want to impose sanctions. An example of this is precisely the ship that came to Oslo port, owned by the oligarch Vladimir Lisin, which is close to Vladimir Putin, and that got rid of more than 4,000 tons of aluminium in Oslo port, so that the profit business goes undisturbed even if he's close to Putin and an important person for that regime. What does the Minister think if, in addition to the EU's decision, a Norwegian list can also be drawn up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e501	This is not the first time people are listed in Norway. This is a way of punishing those who are either perpetrators of war crimes or responsible for actions we do not support. There are several lists going on. One is the UN lists, which we agree with, and the other is the EU lists. We have no tradition from other conflicts to introduce our own Norwegian lists. I think it's an important line to continue, precisely because we know that sanctions work best when we do it together. Therefore, it is not appropriate for Norway to introduce its own policies in this situation, because it is most effective to act with others. Then, of course, we can record who we think should be on these lists, and that may be relevant for Norway. It is important that we hit those who are really responsible for decisions in this war. It shall not affect representatives of a country, regardless of what they have done or what responsibility they have. That is what is the basis for listing in these kinds of cases. We are most strongly associated with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e510	Thank you for that answer. That means, if I heard correctly, that the government would promote Norwegian involvement in the EU's sanctions lists, if I understood it correctly. In that case, it is very pleasant and in line with one of the proposals we have made to deal with the matter. If own lists are not adopted by the Norwegian side, at least what comes from the EU can be affected. Is it correctly understood that the government is actively working to add names to these lists that come from the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e517	On a general basis, I just want to say that we are working very closely with the EU in the situation we are in. For the first time, I will attend a meeting with EU Foreign Ministers. It's Monday. This is the first time in eleven years a Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs has been invited in such a context. I think they think it's appropriate to work with Norway, and we've joined all the sanctions because we're the strongest together. Just which people are going to be on such lists, there has to be a concrete assessment of, so that I cannot comment on the standing position in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e522	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e529	The attack on Ukraine continues, and there is nothing to suggest that this will slow down, even though Russian forces have retreated and have retreated from the areas around Kyiv. On the contrary, with a regrouping and concentration east of Ukraine, there is a risk that the war will become even more brutal in the future. What is crucial is that we continue to support Ukraine and do so with the necessary weight. Some of these proposals were submitted prior to the attack on Ukraine and some subsequently. We haven't kept them in the main hall now. There is clear support for what the government has done — it is important to bring forward — but the proposals also imply a desire to go further. What Ukraine needs in the first place is weapons and military material. What Norway has contributed is good, but we need to continue that effort, both with direct allocations and through the European Peace Facility, if appropriate, or with direct financial support also to Ukrainian authorities, as we have proposed. There's a lot of evidence that what you're going to need is more material in the future to resist the Russian attack. It is essential that the end of this does not become a frozen situation where Putin can sell out the attack as a victory against his own people in Russia. Of course, we must continue to provide humanitarian aid. Norway has made important contributions and will certainly do so in the future. We need to stop the money and value transfers to Russia. It must apply far beyond the oligarchs. Penalties must be reinforced. It is important and right for the EU now to enter in order for Russian ships not to be able to call at European ports. I expect Norway to follow it up, and I believe that this should also apply to the landing of fish in Norwegian ports. It is also a transfer of money and value to Russia and partly Russian oligarchs. I would also like to encourage the government: we have many companies that take the initiative themselves and go further in ending their trade, commitment and activity towards Russia than the sanctions suggest. We should back that up. It is also an important initiative. We are still at the beginning of what is at risk of a long conflict, and efforts and support must be reinforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e546	To the last point from Ola Elvestuen I would say that it is a mildly said two-edged sword. It is important that when Norway implements sanctions, it is done quickly and with clarity, so that businesses know what they have to deal with. No one will be on the wrong side of the sanctions, but it is a challenge to encourage self-punishment as well, because it can create impunity against the sanctions. But the reason I took the floor was really just that I wanted to point out the significant and total support it is in the Storting for, among other things. donating arms to Ukraine. Now SV has also changed its position, and I think it is grown up and well done when you see developments on the ground. But then I can't help thinking that Red, by the Bears of the Moxnes, is standing on this pulpit with great moral pathos and talking about the importance of the warm support to Ukraine, the importance of being able to protect against the international attack from Russia. Had all the parties in this room thought that Red, Ukraine had nothing to defend itself with. Red is the only party here in the Storting that is against the donation of weapons, but it is they who speak loudest and with the greatest moral pathos of the attack war Putin has started. It's not related, and it's a brand for other parts of Red's policy, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e556	As the representative of Soreide very well knows, all the parties in Stortinget have for some decades renounced arms aid to warring countries. Then, at least in our opinion, there have been reasonable arguments for that view, which obviously the Right itself has supported in all these years – since 1959, to be perfectly precise. Some experts have pointed to the danger of becoming a fellow warrior state, others have pointed out that it can also lead to even greater war than it already is. We also see that NATO countries say no to several of the wishes that come from Ukraine. For example, you want to do this. not to have a prohibitive zone or to risk a major war on European soil. So here are the different assessments, and there must be room for democracy. Then, of course, if it is perceived that Red has a moral pondus in terms of resistance to international war, it may be because Red, unlike Right, does not have a situational resistance to it, but also clearly says from when our allies break international law, invade other countries, create huge refugee flows and much death and corruption among civilians. It is an advantage for Norway's credibility in such discussions that we are consistent, that we are consistent, and that we are calling around international law and taking a distance from those who are trampling on it, which is now Russia. It's dangerous for Norway whose major powers can behave this way, and it's important that we have a clear line on that kind of thing. So it's very good if right now alerts a new line in foreign policy where they're going to be consistent and actually stand with us, even when maybe allied countries are responsible for gross and extremely serious violations of international law. This can happen, it has happened before, and it is important that Norway stands clearly together in such situations, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e567	I have to say a few more words about this, because it's not often I'm sitting in the staging room and getting upset about the posts that are coming. This comparison that Red keeps repeating that it's in the major issues, the United States has the same thing as Russia, that this is really as much in Afghanistan, there's just as much in Libya, is a simplification of the situation and an attempt to talk around Red's responsibility. What we are talking about with regard to Ukraine is a people who are fighting in despair about their freedom, and they are fighting on behalf of those who stand up for freedom and democracy in Europe. That's the basis. And Red chooses not to support Ukraine in that fight. You can come as much as you want to talk about oligarchs we'll meet, and we'll do that, but they don't affect the situation of the attack in Russia. Putin needs resistance. We're doing that, and we're getting through giving weapons to Ukraine. Fortunately, democratic countries have stood up this time and do so, and do not follow the line of Red. Then we must provide humanitarian aid, and we must have sanctions that strike wide, and that hit hard. I also believe that it is important that we support companies that choose to go beyond the penalties themselves, because this is also a moral responsibility. Fortunately, the government has broad support for the support we give to Ukraine. We are the proponents for it to be strengthened, and it must be strengthened, and Red gets to sit there with his own opinions over there. They have the right to do so within a democracy, but fortunately no one follows their line. This would lead to the brutal defeat of democracy and freedom in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e574	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e579	It's important that we don't attribute parties to wrong opinions. There is no one in this room who has given anyone other than Putin the responsibility for the invasion of Ukraine. There is no doubt that the responsibility lies solely on the Russian regime. No sphere of interest can explain, justify or excuse anything. This is the sole responsibility of the Russians, and they must withdraw from the country as soon as possible and complete the acts of war as soon as possible. Then, of course, we believe that lost human lives in African and Asian countries are worth as much as lost human lives in European countries. Therefore, it is important that we are consistent, we believe, in our opposition to international law-enforcement occupation or bombing war, whether it is country in Europe, Africa or Asia. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e586	The number is out. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. Case No. 3 and 4 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e619	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each political group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e626	We live in an uneasy and unpredictable time, which has also given – and gives – an impact at both high and unforeseeable electricity prices and electricity costs for both people and business. At the same time, it is important to work on measures that can have a lasting effect, which is constantly being done by the government. However, until one has more durable solutions in place, it is important to continue the arrangements that have been established in the past. There is a broad consensus on the Stortinget. However, the parties to the Committee share their views on how to set up the hedging arrangements, but I would say, on behalf of the majority, which consists of the governing parties and SV, that we are very pleased that there is a consensus that there will be insurance arrangements in the future. In concrete terms, the majority in this case proposes that we have insurance schemes that last for the next winter as well. We see that the picture when it comes to the power prices is unpredictable, and until one has more durable solutions that one knows works, in place, one must maintain and strengthen the hedging arrangements. This has been done by the Stortinget in previous proceedings, and the government has made proposals for further strengthening of the insurance systems. And now the majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, are going in order to provide additional security and predictability towards the next winter and increase the coverage of households to 90 pst. at a current price of more than 70 øre. One also supports a targeted strengthening of the housing aid, an evaluation for the harvest of the impact of the insurance schemes that one has had, and an assessment of any changes, both in order to ensure a good distribution profile and to stimulate energy saving. A loose proposal has been made today by Red on irrigation plants in agriculture and the greenhouse industry. That issue is obviously important, especially when you're entering a summer time. The fact that a person should be able to receive aid also when an owner of a irrigation plant together with the neighbour, and not only when an owner alone – as applicable rules are – is a sensible proposal. So on behalf of the majority, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, I would like to ask Red to convert it into a transmission proposal. We have full confidence that the government will follow up this, within its powers, in regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e637	It was both right and important for the government to take the initiative to set up a scheme that ensured support for households when the electricity price was high for a long time last autumn and beyond the winter we have been through. The first decision took place here in Stortinget before Christmas, and the scheme has since been reinforced and its duration extended. It has provided the necessary security. I think everyone here wants the power prices to be lower than we've seen this winter. We probably have some different solutions and suggestions to get there, but the proposal presented by the oil and energy minister and the finance minister this week, to change the law to ensure better fixed-price contracts for people and businesses, will undoubtedly be a step in the right direction. Explanations of the unusually high prices are many and complex. I am not going to spend time on them today, but unfortunately there are no fast roads to increased power generation. When we have had a war in Europe since the last treatment of the power support system, which clearly also contributes to increased uncertainty and high prices over a long period of time, it is necessary that the government again act. Now we go into the summer months where the power consumption goes down, which hopefully also gives us an estimate of the prices. But the harvest is also coming this year, and unfortunately everything indicates that prices will rise as consumption rises again. Therefore, the government has now come to Stortinget with a proposal to extend the power support schemes by March 2023. And that is why we are adopting it today. Today's system continues out of the year. There'll be power support out of March next year. Today's power support system works well, and people have become used to it. The scheme came into operation quickly, after new work and great flexibility in many stages. But the scheme has to be evaluated. We've spent many billions, and we're going to spend new billions on paying parts of people's electricity bills when the price is high. We have to look at how the scheme affects the economy in general, how it contributes to distribution, and how it affects our willingness to think about energy savings. The working party is pleased with the agreement between the government parties and SV in this case. Until November, the state covers 80 pst. of the price over 70 øre. As of November, the state will take 90 pst. The three months it's darkest and coldest. We continue the temporary increases in housing aid by June 2022 and it is reintroduced for the period November 2022 to January 2023. We also ensure that the extra payments through the housing allowance are extended for the whole country in the next few months, with a stay this summer, and that the scheme starts again in October and lasts for January next year. The unusually high power prices must be compensated. Today, the Stortinge ensures the necessary predictability and security for ordinary people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e656	Right supports that we extend this power support system. It's necessary. The electricity prices are still very high, and unfortunately there are prospects that they will stay there for a while. But we believe that this scheme should preferably be evaluated before deciding what it will look like for the harvest, and also next year. We have been thinking since the beginning, when we started discussing power support schemes, that we should have a more socially accurate system than the one we have today. We also thought that the scheme should give greater incentive to save electricity, that's quite important. But when that is said, we are more concerned that there is now predictability of a system, and we are therefore going to subsidize the proposal of the majority, even though we are going to vote in favour of the government's original proposal in this matter. It could be 90 pst. is the right level when we come to the harvest, but we don't know that per day, we mean. That is why we will see the evaluation first. Then we're still a little disappointed that you haven't been able to set up a scheme for the smaller businesses. Now we have schemes that make the volunteers, we have schemes that make the agriculture, we have schemes that make the households, but we don't have anything that hits the smaller businesses, that have very large costs of electricity. For these enterprises, the situation will continue into the summer. It's not like for households, who use less electricity in the summer because it's warmer then, so you don't have to heat up the houses; the companies go for the same machine anyway, and they're going to have a lot of costs. Finally, we are also going to support the proposals for housing aid that lie here. We believe that to be right and necessary. But we have put in a proposal on the possibility of looking at geographical differentiation of housing support payments, because it's not like everyone across the country now has high electricity costs. It's mainly in South Norway this is a challenge. All in all, this is absolutely necessary and correct. The state shouldn't bother with people paying for very expensive electricity they have to use, so it is absolutely right that the money should also be refunded. But we look forward to the evaluation of the scheme when it comes. It is announced in the first six months, so we look forward to then being able to re-examine the discussion about what this scheme should look like in the future. I'm taking up the suggestions from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e671	The representative Tina Bru then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e676	The extension of the electricity support system, proposed by the government until March 2023, is a clear signal that the situation at exceptionally high electricity prices will be long-lasting and that Norwegian electricity subscribers will have to rely on electricity costs to represent a significantly higher share of current expenditure. So this is in addition to the fact that we have a huge increase in the price of other necessity products, such as food and fuel. It's serious, and it's far more serious than the government seems to take over. The revenues from high electricity prices mainly stem from government, both state, state and municipality, through direct or indirect ownership. So it's not private capitalists who scour this, but public, protected monopoly. In reality, this is a massive withdrawal of purchasing power from private households. The state compensates, but not enough. And what does the government do to balance the power market? Very little. Exports continue, despite a minimum of fillings in the warehouse, and electrification plans are to be implemented, costing what it will cost. Then it's like there are ordinary people and Norwegian companies who get the bill. Small businesses are the backbone of Norwegian business. Now there is a very critical situation for a very large number of industries. The current drugs have increased by a lot of 100 pst. for small local holdings with low profit margins. In addition, we have very high fuel prices, and we have the red-green tax and tax increases. This is the reality of businesses out there now, and that means that jobs are at risk and competitiveness is weakened. The government and SV have so far nothing to contribute to these. The powerful toolbox that is flagged very clearly in the government platform has no means of helping businesses and jobs in an acute crisis that could have consequences for the Norwegian economy. The Party proposes a maximum price of 50 øre per kWh for households and enterprises. It costs, but the Ministry of Finance has so far been unable to answer how much if companies are included. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes amendments to the legal text that empowers the government to include business in the scheme through regulation. I will address the proposals of the Progress Party and, at the same time, will signal subsidized support for minority proposals No. 2 to the Inn. 251 S, on an application-based municipal social welfare scheme for small enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e691	The representative Hans Andreas Limi then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e696	It is absolutely right that there are now many people who notice that it has become more economical than before. This is due to both the extraordinary price increases we see on some necessary goods, and this is because after two years of pandemic, many have a heavier private economy. We also see the consequences of a more long-term policy of differences, where those who have it economically are subtracting, while those who are economically struggling are increasingly lagging behind. That is why I am pleased that SV has strengthened this package by 1.1 billion through the negotiations with the government parties. kr. We're making the power management system more socially fair. We're increasing the coverage of the coldest months to 90 pst. We continue the housing aid extension with adjustments to the income limits, so that more people come under the housing aid scheme for a longer period, and we increase the extra payments in housing aid to several months and to higher sums in the months that are the coldest. It is also quite correct that SV would have had a more accurate power management system in the long term, and in this way it follows the reasoning from the Right to put the evaluation in place before making long-term changes. We want a system that is even more socially redistributive and that stimulates more energy efficiency. However, this will allow us to make changes in October. Then we have received the results of the evaluation of the scheme, and there is a new issue for the Stortingen for new negotiations. We want a system where you have 100 pst. coverage up to a consumption of 1000 kWh and then 80 pst. to the next 2000 kWh, with a ceiling of 3000. Even more important to us is that, in the extension of the additional communication presented by the government today on energy policy, we have to negotiate lasting changes in Norwegian power policy that can provide more stable prices in the long term. Here the government has taken a small initiative on legislative changes for several fixed-price contracts, but SV is uncertain whether it will be sufficient to actually get more fixed-price contracts in the future. In conclusion, I would like to say that we cannot solve all the world's problems or high prices with these kinds of crisis solutions. The people's economy needs to be significantly strengthened in the future, and we can do that without pushing inflation up – through a more redistributive tax system, through less expensive welfare schemes that hit those who need it the most. However, it must be done in the future, both in the revised budget and in the State budget, and it is a paradox that the Right has, in particular, become high and dark in its fears of inflation. So we're adding increments of 7 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e713	In the morning’s briefing, the Council of State called the electricity-suppression scheme and the addition to the energy message for the final solution to the electricity price crisis. I wouldn't use exactly those words. I wouldn't use those solutions either. The compensation scheme, which was put in place in winter, provided a justification that it was exceptional and temporary. But the power prices, which are high, are no longer extraordinary or temporary. We can expect high power prices for a long time to come. Actually, if we're going to do something about it, building up and building up nature won't help. What helps is regulation of the market, but nothing is more sacred to the government or the majority of the Stortinget than the market laws. We're not going to be allowed to do that. Red has repeatedly asked for a maximum electricity price to be determined, and we are also promoting a proposal today, which is proportionate to the concession price, which is already calculated and set by the Ministry and is the real price of what it costs to produce renewable energy in Norway. Producing renewable energy in Norway costs less than 12 øre. Still, we're paying a lot of dollars for the same current. The maximum price must be combined with the discovery obligation and the regulation of exports. It is not true that the market is solving today's security of supply problems. In some places the magazine filling is down in 13 pst, and even 11 pst. in South Norway now. And worse it could be. The power industry wonders about selling when prices are high, and the result is empty warehouses and high bills. This is a mockery of all those who have common and poor advice in Norway, and it does not help security of supply either in Norway or in Europe that the magazines are empty. Red promotes proposals for compensatory measures in addition to the maximum price. But we're patching a corpse, and the government knows just as well as Red that the energy message won't solve the price problems. They will, on the other hand, facilitate even more speculation by pushing municipalities to build more wind power on land. With this our proposals on power prices and max. price and compensation schemes are promoted. In addition, we have promoted a loose proposal, which is about ensuring the irrigation laws in agriculture, that it comes under the power support scheme. I would recommend that this be sent as a transmission proposal and end with a propitiatory tone, and I expect the government to deliver on that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e728	The representative Sofie Marhaug has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e734	The high electricity prices last, and therefore a power support scheme should remain in place. I would say that the power support system that was put in place, which is now being extended, is essentially a sensible system and a much better way to do this than the various proposals on the maximum price, etc., which would simply lead to zero incentives for power saving, and that a user disconnection of industrial enterprises such as the way to regulate supply and demand in the power market. That would be a bad idea. Luckily, that's not what the multiple goes in for. From the left side, we are pleased that a longer power support system will be extended, and we are also pleased that a good support system is now being extended through discussions on the Stortinget. We think it might be even better if one looked at more differentiation, so there will be a proposal today. It has to be settled, but it's clear there are different power prices in different parts of the country, to say it very carefully, and it would have been an advantage to be able to differentiate, so we would want to get multiples. We would also like one before one took all the decisions about how the power support system should be far beyond the fall and winter, to get the results from the evaluation that has been started, so that one knows more. Although the power support system is basically wise, it also has some negative aspects, which apply both to energy saving incentives and not least to distribution effects. It's those who usually have the best advice, who get the best out of this system. That's why a government asked for an evaluation. We can only hope that you have full pressure on that, so that you get an even better basis for decision before the negotiations that I understand will happen in October. That's why, together with the Right, we have a suggestion here today. There is also someone who is not getting any power support at all, and who should have had better arrangements. This is true of the many vulnerable small and medium-sized enterprises in this country which have high electricity costs and which do not operate in agriculture but in other industries. There we have put forward a proposal before that which has been voted down, to put in place an application-based system that can be particularly targeted against them, but we repeat it today. We should also want to get multiples. All in all, I must say I am happy that there is agreement on a continuation. It's good, it creates security for people. The left will also – if our proposals are quite unlikely to be voted down – substantiately support the proposals made by the majority here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e755	The Greens voted in favour of the electricity support proposal this autumn. It was good that the government got on the track with a scheme that could be implemented quickly. But we were also critical of several aspects of the scheme: that it weakened the incentives to save electricity, and that those who use the most power came out just as well as those with a sober consumption. This has become an even greater problem with today's government proposal and SV, where the state will cover 90 pst. of costs over a current price of 70 øre per kilowatt hour. We believe it is both possible and necessary to put in place a permanent system, with a much better social profile, which ensures that saving power is worthwhile. The Green Party will therefore encourage everyone to vote in favour of our model, which will return exceptionally high dividends and rent taxes to each individual citizen. This means that those who use the least power, and often those who have the tightest economy, will get far better out than with the Workers' Party, the Center Party's and the SV's model. We take care of the families of young children by distributing the money to all citizens, including children via their superiors. And when the government pays out a cash contribution instead of intervening in the pricing of electricity, we make sure it pays to save electricity. The higher the electricity price, the more it will be worth saving. Our model has gained support from many different environments, from Energy Norway to professors of economics. The government talks a lot about fair climate policy, but they do the opposite. They distribute the most money to those who use the most electricity, and weaken the incentives to live environmentally friendly. If we are to be able to phase out fossil energy with renewables, we need to make sure that everyone has the money and the opportunity to be involved in the transition while at the same time living environmentally friendly. We do that with our proposal. I take this up with me the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European At the same time, I would like to clarify that the Greens will vote in favour of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e768	The representative, Lan Marie Nguyen Berg, has taken up the proposal of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e773	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that today we are extending the electricity support system for households, and I believe it is wise for the government to propose that such a long time. It provides security for many who experience the situation as a demanding one. Because there's a serious situation we're in, we know the future prospects for gas prices and the impact on Norwegian electricity prices, and with Europe in this demanding situation. Then this will create peace and security to a greater extent for many. At the same time, I would like to stress that we are in a very special situation in Norway. We have a completely different system than other countries, because we have clean hydropower, we've been used to having very cheap hydropower, and the revenue for the power goes to the state. This means that we are in a completely different situation than very many other European countries. It's interesting to look at the solutions of the different countries, and I'm of those who think the solution presented by the majority today is a good way to do it. But we have a different solution, and that's because the state gets huge incomes, and even though this creates greater security for many households, we know that there are still a lot of people struggling. That is why the Christian People's Party has called for 100 pst. compensation of more than 50 ears, which shall apply to all. That's why I'm reacting a little to all those who are talking here about that you don't have intent on saving. So, with 70 cents, or maybe 80 cents, plus rent on the Internet, plus charges -- you're quick up in two and a half cents that you pay per kWh that you use. Then you're going to have a pretty good income and maybe a nice little apartment, with a small power consumption, if you don't notice it on the bill. So with the arrangement that's here, there's still a lot of people who want it tough, and at least when you bring all the other increases in addition, and it's the state that keeps going in. So the main criticism of the Christian People's Party is that we would like to have a better order, but what I think is serious is that it is too fragmented. Support to non-governmental organisations has gradually come to support agriculture, but there are still many non-governmental organisations, or non-profits, that do not receive support. It could be folk colleges, it could be a non-profit child-rescue institution, it could be healthy schools, etc. It creates major challenges for part of the sector in which we are so concerned that we are going to have good conditions in Norway and which do not have the same opportunity to increase income. So I just want to say that there has been an extremely urgent procedure on this matter. I think that's a pity, because now it's going to be a one-year arrangement in time. Then the committee should have had better time to work on it. That's why I want to say that in the case of agriculture, it's in the position that we agree with the government's proposal, but we have our own solutions, as I said, that go further to meet them better. Then the companies should have received support. A lot of people have signed a contract. It's a very demanding situation, and it upsets me that the government is not willing to look at it. I would therefore like to say that we have our own proposal, but in other words we will support proposal No. 2, this with an application-based scheme, which is at least better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e788	Early in March we saw that the spot prices were going down again. Many of us who were concerned about seeing if there could be more normalization, so also how things immediately changed when there was first more unrest, and then when the brutality of the war came. And then we've got the new growth that we're left with now. It is clear that it creates unforeseeableness and insecurity among people; the insurance scheme was actually intended to round off because the analyses were intended to achieve a more stable electricity price in spring and summer than was achieved after the new extreme situation we see in Europe now. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV once again form a majority in order to create stability around the insurance scheme, and that we are now also increasing it from 80 to 90 pst. in October, November and December. It gives more predictability, and it provides more security for people – even by providing housing support for those who can't afford it. One measure that the government also thought was correct and important to use is that we have a safeguard scheme for agriculture and the voluntary sector. The government has always been concerned that we should also take action that not only corrects the extremes that you see now because of the war and the brutality that it brings with it. One of the outcomes is concerns in the energy markets, and we're going to work on more long-term measures. When we took over the government power last autumn, it was therefore important for us to reduce the fees on electricity immediately. It is important to remind Stortinget that the spot price, according to Nord Pool, was NOK 1 and NOK 35 in September last year. So it was high. That is why we proposed to reduce the electricity charge immediately when we took over the government power. The aim is that there should be a lasting change – not just a short-term change, but a lasting measure because we want to bring costs down on electricity. The oil and energy minister and I, as the finance minister, have started and launched work on better fixed-price contracts on electricity and a change in the base rate tax in order to make it easier to enter into better fixed-price contracts. If we get a majority and join that idea, businesses and individuals could have the opportunity to conclude more stable and other contracts at much lower prices than what has been in the fixed-price market today. That's the government's goal. In addition to doing these more short-term measures, we are working on longer-term measures to improve the security and stability of the energy situation for people and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e804	Let me start by saying that I think it is good that the government extends the scheme and now gives people around the country predictability in order to handle high power prices. What I want to ask the Council of State is actually something I have asked the Council of State about several times: why is there still no support for businesses and businesses, which also have high costs, for example. dry cleaning, which uses a lot of electricity, and which will continue to do so even if it gets warmer outside. Today I do not want an answer that the government has cut the electricity charge, because I have heard it many times. We know that the cut in the electricity charge really doesn't mean that much to the companies that might save 300 kroner a month on it. So I'm really going to ask to get an answer to what's the reason why the government doesn't want to do this. Is it difficult to implement for technical and practical reasons? Or is it because there is no will in the government to actually support the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e813	I understand that Tina Bru does not want us to talk about tax arrangements on electricity, because the Right critically criticised that we made tax reductions on electricity before Christmas. It was a political priority that the government did because we thought it was right and important that we hit everyone, and especially Tina Bru criticized it a lot. But we still think that's right, because it's a permanent change. It also helps businesses in central Norway and in the other parts of the country that have low electricity prices. We have also worked with other permanent changes. The model that the Minister of Energy and I launched earlier this week will provide better fixed-price contracts, which means that even traders who want to secure themselves will have the possibility of a lower fixed-price. It will be a measure, and we have been advised that much lower prices are charged by operators in the electricity market than the current insurance scheme. The goal of the government is that it should be put in place, but also that we should have a security for traders if they want more stability and enter into fixed-price contracts at a much lower price than what has been possible to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e820	I think the work on better fixed-price contracts is interesting, and that can be a good solution. We're also positive that you're looking at it. It is not that I do not want the Council of State to talk about the electricity charge because we did not go in for the same cut. This discussion I and the Council of State have had several times in this Chamber. The reason I ask you again and again is that I sincerely want an answer. Is it technical that makes it difficult to support business, or is it the will it stands on? I would ask the Council of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e827	We just reduced the electricity charge because it helps business. We have faith in long-term solutions that can contribute, and that is why we have worked a lot with the basic interest rate, which means that many small businesses who want to secure themselves can just make sure. Because you are worried when you get different reports about entrepreneurs who have it tough. Therefore, it was a goal for the government to be able to create new, good solutions. With the prices that are suggested, there is a completely different price level from what you have been used to, which means that traders who want to be more disconnected from the daily market, and who want more stability, can get it. It's a permanent change, it's a much larger change, and it's also going to have much greater economic significance than different smaller grant items that have been proposed. It is also important to say that several of the proposals made by the Right have had no greater scope than the reduction in the electricity charge. That's just another way, and we believe that the reduction in the electricity charge has been a less bureaucratic and simpler way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e835	I have to try again, unfortunately, because I do not get an answer. We had a system for agriculture, and today the government parties in this room said that one would have the Red’s own proposal – to look at irrigation plants in agriculture – as a transmission proposal. There's another problem that's coming up. And then you found a solution to the type of housing, which was also quite complicated – to have more rounds on it, and that's understandable. I understand there's not a solution to these complicated things, but why can't the Council of State answer what's the challenge of supporting business? The scheme we proposed added a two-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr; we pointed out that we can do it the same way we've done with some of the Korona packages we've had, where the municipalities themselves are responsible for managing the scheme because they know their local business well and know what kind of businesses and what businesses have challenges. I try one last time – is it possible to get an answer to: Is it will, or is it technical?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e844	What's the answer, is just that there's a willingness to make changes. That's why we're bringing in the basic interest rate bit, which is much more extensive and can be of much greater importance than the aid scheme proposed by the Right. We want to make lasting and good changes. When Tina Bru was Minister of Energy, there were no proposals for changes; then the spot price was also NOK 1 and 30 kroner in September. We want permanent change – not just compensatory measures now – and the rent tax is such a lasting change. And then we have wanted a permanently lower level of charges that will also be there after this crisis. So it's just that we're so busy getting more solutions for business over time, that we've spent a lot of time and resources on base rate taxes and how we can do it better, which makes it cheaper and better fixed-price agreements for business. We are very concerned that many of the small businesses will have some of the same opportunity as the large heavy industry. That is what we are proposing here – that small businesses should have the same opportunity as the heavy industry. It can provide stability, security and lower power prices with the change. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e851	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e856	It's a crisis for many in the business world. Before the election, Vedum appeared as Robin Hood, while now he appears as the sheriff of Nottingham, who is far into the wallet of many businesses. In my county, we have Millba, a very good food business, which has over one million dollars in electricity costs in the month while we have a government that doesn't do anything. It's four times as much as you care. That's what it's all about, and that means that it's going to end investment. Bandak – which is another company in Telemark, and I believe the Minister for Oil and Energy is also well aware of – has been clear and clear and has met with the rapporteurs in Grenland and the rapporteur in Mid-Telemark, who are, therefore, the rapporteurs of the Central Party and the Labour Party. Bandak is very concerned about the situation around power support, so we have a government council that's not going to do anything. You just push this in front of you. It's troublesome, and I'm going to challenge the Council of State: when is he going to make sure that healthy, good companies are going to survive, and not risk going bankrupt or have to cancel employees because you have a government that doesn't take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e863	Burd Hoksrud is a person who is good at saying words, but who is also often good at listening. I said in my answer and in the post that we want to make changes in the tax and in the possibility of smaller industries and small businesses to enter into long-term power contracts at a lower price. For this reason, the government is working to make some fundamental changes to the tax legislation itself – for all who are at Stortinget, it has met powerful industries and it has seen that they have completely different electricity price agreements, predictability and long-termity, at a lower price. Now the government wants small businesses, bakeries or others to have the same opportunity, so that they can get that security. Then it's not an acute or short-term solution. There shall be a long-term solution over time and there shall be a lower level of charges. Because we think the level of fees that the Progress Party had adopted when they put in power was too high. The combination of reducing taxes – it is permanent – and introducing a new system, including a change in taxation, will increase the security and predictability of the companies that want it. That's our clear goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e870	The President will remind you that even Friday before Easter it applies to the speech clock, and when it's at zero, we go in for a landing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e875	I still think it's sad, because what I'm experiencing is that it burns out there. Too many companies are really burning it now, and you still feel that the government and the government are saying that we should consider looking at this. They actually need support now, and they need help now, not in two to three months, then it might be too late. It's very sad, and I believe that the Council of State has to take over. You can't sit and wait and see, you actually have to act. Stone transport, a company in Kragerø, gets 5 million. NOK more in expenses if the fuel prices go up by NOK 5. They get a paycheck, and they get electricity costs because they have chosen to be effective and to replace electricity in the quarry. They get sky-high extra costs that become a challenge, and we have a government that sits and is completely tame. You have to stop being tame, you have to stop hiding, Councillor. You have to meet people, and then you have to get there with measures now, not in months. There's a crisis out there. It burns too many companies. And it really burns red.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e882	The President must also remind you that you are not an indictment form in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e887	It is incredibly important that we make changes that create stability and security for Norwegian companies. That's why we've been working on this change in rent tax. It may seem very technical, but it makes small businesses like the quarry representative Hoksrud refer to here can get the same kind of agreements as heavy industry. It'll give you a completely different reality. Then there's a permanent change that makes us free to have these debates year after year if it's the kind of shifts. This is the clear objective of the government, because we want Norwegian industry to have access to clean, reasonable power, whether it is small industry or large industry. What is the intention behind Terje Aasland and I have been working on is that one should be able to have that kind of long-term contract, at lower prices – stability and security for businesses. In addition, unlike when the Progress Party crashed, we have reduced the fees. That's the first thing we did – the Progress Party set up the fees, and I thought it was stupid. But we're not just going to do it, because it's too small, and that's why we're going to make the kind of changes that make it easier for businesses to have security, predictability and long-term contracts – and the time is up. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e892	The president is of the opinion that when you're stringed with everyone, a fair one.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e897	President, I'll try to follow the rules. The war is obviously overwhelming in everything we are discussing at the moment, but I would remind you that the NVE announced high prices of electricity out the year before the war started, so it was a long time ago that we realized that this is not a temporary price crisis, but a fundamental price crisis. Therefore, I am increasingly surprised that the government does not even want to consider a maximum price proposal, because what we get are schemes that need to be patched up all the time. I share the concern of Tina Bru for business. For many companies it is now that they get large, increased wage costs, but it is not safe they can afford to pay it. They also have increased electricity costs. This means that either workplaces will be threatened – if, for example: are bound by contracts that make them unable to set prices – or the prices for people most will increase, i.e. we get a price spiral because business has to collect the increased costs they have at an increased price. I ask again, why is this completely out of the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e905	With the proposals that we have launched this last week, our analysis and our assessment are that the power companies are going to make offers to the business community and others who want it, about long-term contracts, with prices that are much, much lower than what we see in the market today. It will be at a completely different price level – what people will experience as more normal price levels. There are system changes that make people not dependent on day-to-day stock exchange, because the stock exchange takes very little into account. That is really the whole point of this – that those who want to go away from the day-to-day stock exchange have long-term security, as most people in the heavy industry have. The representative should also be allowed to do so, or the traders be allowed to do so, because we want one to get rid of that uncertainty for many. Those who want to live more on the stock exchange and have that uncertainty will be allowed to do so. That's why we're doing that system change, and that's what the government's goal is. That's why we're going to send out new proposals in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e910	Instead, the president had a comment that was quite good. He said that if one is strict with all, one is fair. But one of the challenges facing many small businesses in the country now feel is that the government is not strict with everyone. In the case of an industry — agriculture — there has been a shift around, our creativity, our offensive and a support system that helps gardening and farming across the country. However, in other industries — district industries such as sawmilling, bakery, small production businesses — rejection is constant. Then it's not the same willingness to stretch and find solutions. Then it's just about the long-term arrangements. It's great that a worker with long-term schemes, but there's no difference between that and now trying to stretch and help other small businesses in the district industry with high power consumption, just as an affordable one has done with agriculture. Why not apply the reasoning given by the Council of State to agriculture? Can't the Council say, on the contrary, that we are now helping others in the same way that we are helping agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e917	Today, it sometimes seems that the opposition has prepared for the debate before we were out with the last steps, because the point of what the Minister of Energy also spoke about today, which was launched to the public earlier this week, is just to help small businesses, and that it will come this year. We're going to make changes to the law and make sure that the Stortinge – if the Stortinge will, of course – can adopt those things this year, so that you won't go into a new winter with that kind of uncertainty, if you don't want it yourself. Because there may be someone who wants to be exposed on the spot market. It has to be up to each one. That's what we've been working on, precisely to create better predictability, more security for those who will do it in the future. Then we want to change the tax system in such a way that the power companies will offer contracts at a completely different level than they are used to. The representative comes from a state of power-intensive industry, and he knows what prices a part of them have. It is the type of tax regime that we should also be able to have for other types of business, and which, hopefully, is going to be competitive, which means that prices are going to be much, much lower than what has been used to in the fixed-price market to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e922	I think it is rather strange to hear this exchange of lines, because I think it would have been more honest if the Council of State could just say that one has not found room to support the companies, not even with the scheme proposed by several – an application-based scheme. The answer that goes again about the electricity charge is interesting, as the electricity charge went up again on 1 April, so right now the companies have no support. When you talk about changes in the base rate tax, I'm of the opinion that it sounds good, but I'm not sure how much it's going to bring down the fixed price. Anyway, it will apply from 1 January next year. In my own country, Active Peace Trips, which I'm sure the Council of State knows very well, have been carrying students to concentration camps for almost 30 years. They now report that they are going bankrupt, probably during April, because they have also invested in Norway to take in foreign students who want to look at the war story in Norway. What is the reason why one does not want to support businesses, at least not those in the non-profit sector that are randomly registered, for example. like an AS?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e927	I have close contact with a lot of businessmen and really see a lot of the challenges that many people face. That's why we have to do a lot of grips. That's why I'm a little surprised when I hear the representative Ropstad and the representatives from the Right and the Left, because it was the parties that criticized us the most because we put down the fuel charges before Christmas. We reduced the fees on fuel compared to the right, Christian People's Party and Left proposed, and then we were almost labeled as environmental hosts because we wanted to get the fee level down. But we did, against the voices of the Christian People's Party. Also when we put the fees on the stream, it was against the voices of the Christian People's Party. Then you must at least be happy that we have adopted our proposal. In terms of current charges, they are lower in March, April, June and in the rest of the year than if the Christian People's Party had received through its proposal. We don't think that's good enough, what we did then, and that's why we also want to make changes in taxation in order to get better price agreements in place, which the Christian People's Party didn't do when they had the power. That's why we want to do a lot of work to get more security and predictability over time, both on the charging side and on the general tax side, so that we get rid of the kind of uncertainty we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e932	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e939	The situation we're in is, of course, very serious. There are also some dramatic impacts on a number of inputs, which characterise both business and households. I am very pleased that the Storting in general now ends up with the power support system, which intends to reduce the extreme costs of households, something, and that they are implemented and extended in a time horizon that makes it predictable and safe – one knows what to do with. It's a short-term solution, but it's good that there's a great deal of excitement about it being so long-term in nature that it gives security to people around the country. Prices are most likely to be high, and we need to find arrangements for that. As the Minister of Finance was just in, we believe in the solution of better fixed-price agreements, where one, over maybe three, five or seven years, binds its purchases to a fixed price that is much more favourable than the market price. That's an advantage. We're also going to regulate a max stroke there. It will be possible for households to seize that opportunity through fixed-price agreements, but it will also be a very important instrument for business. I'm very happy that we can get in place in the course of the year. Of course, it's a serious backtrace, with inputs rising. It is not just electricity that applies to industry; it is steel, wood products – a series of conditions that are demanding. The question is, is it right to relieve any risks in business? That's the big question about everything. But we want to stabilise this in the long term, so that you get predictability and security associated with it. I'm also very happy that the income that comes from energy sales – whether it's via State Power or other companies in Norway – goes back to people in some form through public ownership. I'm happy about that, too. There have been some questions about this evaluation, which should have been done now. I think it's wise that we go into the problem thoroughly. We've been given a very clear assignment: We will have a review of the reasons for this year's situation. We shall have an assessment of the risk that similar situations will arise in retrospect. We should have considered measures to reduce the vulnerability to exceptionally high power prices. We will assess the maximum price, the filling level requirements and the increased organisation of accumulators. And we're going to figure out how Norwegian power exports affect Norwegian supply security and Norwegian power prices. We're going to do this job very carefully, because we need, given the time we've been through, a good lighting of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e970	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e975	Let me start by congratulating the Council of State on the important tasks ahead of him. Today, the Council of State has submitted the additional communication to the Energy Communication. It is very good that there is a warning there that it is necessary to build more renewable energy too, because that is the big thing that is hanging over us, and that will also affect the electricity prices in the future – that we get enough energy produced, and that we ensure that we do not end up in a situation where we do not have profits, which we have had all the years until now. I noticed that the Council of State announced that the concession treatment for wind power should now be started. I agree that it is urgent to build more renewable energy. I want to ask the Council of State if he has any thoughts about how to sue the pill for those municipalities that might now have to take a risk and say yes to projects, without the law being clarified. We introduced e.g. a production charge on wind power. Is there anything the Council of State would like to see more of? And then how will he relieve political risks?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e984	Thank you very much for the congratulations for a new and important job, which the representative Bru is well aware of. It's an important job. Ensuring that we have sufficient access to reasonable, renewable energy in the Norwegian market is of exceptional importance in the future. We have an increasing power demand in the years to come, not least related to a number of exciting industrial establishments. So we have a very clear goal that we're going to be able to do that in the future. In the case of sea wind, the production charge is on consultation. I think it's motivating. We also need to look at other methods to make sure that the municipalities are left with more. We have to make sure that the municipalities get more to say about the wind turbines being built in their own municipality when they first make land available. I say we should have the municipalities with us, not against us. I believe that the representative Bru felt that the municipalities were against the wind power policy of the previous government. We must also ensure that they see the industrial opportunities associated with this. There are many exciting things about wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e993	First congratulates the Council of State on new tasks. Governments were in their posts not only in the energy sector, but also a little over the industry. We're really discussing two things. Long-term solutions are good. Better fixed-price solutions are very good. But it takes time. The number of enterprises and industries currently in place is an acute crisis situation, and not only those industries that are now affected by high electricity costs, with low margins, but it is also reported from a number of places in the country that new industrial projects do not get under way because there is insufficient power. This means that many important industrial projects in the renewable sector are also disappearing to the rest of the world because they are not being set up in Norway. Then is my question to the Council of State: In addition to being concerned about the existing business sector, what will the Council of State help to ensure that the new projects start up? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e999	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1004	As I said in my reply to the representative Bru, I think it is important that we be able to build credibility around that we have sufficient amounts of renewable energy as a quality and a advantage both for Norwegian business and for the Norwegian people around the country. The starting point is that we need to build more power, and we need to build networks, new networks, faster than what's done today. Making sure that we have a robust power system is essential in order to achieve the possibilities we have. Then we have to have a stable price system, and then I think this with changes of the base rate tax and the fixed price agreement is quite important, both in the short term and in the long term. Making sure that prices are stable, as predictable and as low as possible is important and is part of the ambitions of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1011	We have heard earlier today that the government is submitting an additional message to the Energy Communication, and one of the news we have received is that it is now to be arranged for fixed-price contracts for households. It is good that this kind of action is coming. At the same time, we cannot have a power policy that depends on permanent support schemes to compensate people for high electricity bills, which I believe the government is also adding up to today. My question is whether, in this additional communication, if any, it is possible for the government to also look at other measures that can provide people and business with the security of sustainable, reasonable electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1016	First of all, I agree with the representative, Mr Haltbrecken, that we cannot have permanent support schemes. It doesn't serve anyone in length. We need a contractual system based on a reasonable, predictable and stable price for different customer groups, whether households – important, as mentioned – or business as well. And this fixed-price agreement that we've launched, I think is important, both for people and for business, and also for larger businesses. So we're going to do that, and we're going to propose that in connection with the energy message. We're sending out a case at the hearing. The Minister of Finance will take care of it relatively quickly. Finally, we are going to discuss other measures through the current evaluation, and I am happy to discuss them with them, among others. SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1023	A number of measures have been presented by the Council of State in a piece and in part, not in full. Today, the Council of State announced that he would be speeding up wind power generation on land in the briefing of the Appendix to the Right Energy Communication. Therefore, I wonder if Aasland State Council can guarantee that we will get lower electricity prices with wind power expansion on land, or whether it will only lead to the destruction of nature and the overrun of reindeer in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1030	First of all, this government has not dealt with this situation in a piece and divided way. We have had a very clear guide to it through the power support system, and we have also corrected and adjusted as the market and assumptions have changed. I think that's good. It serves Norwegian consumers that we have done so, and I am happy that we have also received support in Stortinget for that very thing. As far as long-term stability is concerned, we need to get more renewable energy into the Norwegian market and into the Norwegian power system. It underpins future opportunities for industry, for business and for the security of people that we actually succeed in that. Society needs to be electrified, we need to cut our greenhouse gas emissions, and we need to contribute to a green industrial growth. Then we need much more power. The main problem is that Red is against all new renewable energy measures, except for hydropower. In the case of wind power on land, we shall ensure that we do this with the municipalities and not with the municipalities, and we shall ensure that the municipalities are heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1039	I would also like to start by congratulating the Council of State on an important job, and I look forward to good and constructive cooperation, not least on the important energy message that the Committee is about to present. I do not expect a concrete yes/no response from the Council of State, but proposal No. 8 in today’s stand from the Christian People’s Party and the Advance Party: ‘The government is asking that garage layers, shared heating centres and companies supplying heat to housing companies be included in the electricity support system.’ The background to that proposal is the consultation input from NBBL, Norske Dwelling Team, and I believe OBOS and some of the others, which indicates that the system is today aligned in such a way that those who receive power support from heating companies that do not fall under the scheme do not come under the power support scheme either. I know it's a regulatory work on this that's being followed up, where one looks at who's going to fall inside. It will probably be that not everyone can get inside, but there will be some housing laws that then fall outside. Is the Council willing to look at it and respond to what is in the hearings?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1050	We have assessed a number of different measures that are not yet included in the scheme. I think it is wise to take this into account in the evaluation. In the case of garages, several of them are organised as purely private commercial companies. They are not included in the power support system, and therefore they are not included so far, but I think it is wise that we see the whole, the width, how the system has taken different customer groups and different consumption when we are going to evaluate this, and I hope that through the evaluation we can also get new measures that help stabilise the situation over time. It is there, and we will certainly have a constructive and good debate when the evaluation is widely available until the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1057	I want to start by congratulating the Council of State on the important job he has ahead of him. State councils and I have toured Telemark during the election campaign and discussed and talked to industry and industry. It was given some promises, and I hope the Council of State can fulfill some of what he promised along the way there. But over to today's situation. Many of the measures outlined by the State Councils are long-term. It will take many years to implement the measures described here. My question to the Council of State is: What short-term measures will the Council of State take to keep living in sustainable, forward-looking and profitable industries, such as Rec in Porsgrund, Bandak and other industries we have in Telemark and the rest of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1066	First of all, thank you very much for all your congratulations. I forgot to thank both the representative Limi and the representative Ropstad, and now the representative Farahmand – thank you for that. I can promise that we are already fulfilling a number of the promises we made in the election campaign. With regard to the current situation, short-term and long-term for business, we have, after careful consideration, chosen to propose this with fixed-price agreements. I believe that this will create predictability and certainty that there will be more stability, lower prices and a basis for investing in industry in the future as well. It will take some time to get the system in place. It shall be introduced from 1 January 2023, but there is a good opportunity for many power producers and electricity companies to enter into the type of fixed-price agreements before that date, so that, in an uncertain and insecure time, businesses can also be assured that this will stabilise when they have such a type of fixed-price agreement, which is identical to that of the power-processing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1075	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1083	I would also like to start by saying that I am pleased that today we are putting in place an extension of the support schemes we have adopted earlier in the Grand Duchy, to households, to agriculture and greenhouses, to the voluntary sector and to specific schemes for those with the lowest incomes. But at this level, I still have to say that I am both surprised and disappointed that it is not possible at this time to have multiples in this Chamber in order to put in place a sobering system to help smaller businesses in sectors other than agriculture, where the flow represents a lot of turnover, and which is actually at least as hard a frame of the high electricity prices as many others who are receiving support here today. This is a matter that we from the Left have addressed with even spaces since December. The government's response since January has been that one does not refuse to put in place schemes that hit small and medium-sized enterprises, but that one is assessing them on an ongoing basis. As the Minister of Industry replied to me in February: the situation is being closely followed. However, it must be allowed to ask: Now this has been continuously assessed and followed closely – in January, February, March and April – but no arrangements are in place to help small non-agricultural enterprises that are currently in an acute situation. What has changed since January and until today is not the current prices, they are still high and demanding, but at the top of everything, we are now in a situation where commodity prices are rising in almost all areas, interest has begun to rise, we see investment being postponed, which now makes the alarm clocks go in the construction industry. Uncertainty collects seen escalating. So says the Minister of Oil and Energy that we can't relieve every risk to business – and we can't, that's quite right, and we shouldn't – but in the situation we're in, where we're actually stretching and getting solutions to the acutely high power prices for all the other groups around us, the majority in this room, the government party and the support party SV, will not do anything to help small and medium-sized enterprises: bakery, sawing, small production companies and other companies around the country that are struggling with high power prices, and that have no room to escape, no place to hide. The answer for them is down manning, permitting, in the worst case bankruptcy. This is a matter Left will continue to add click. We must also stand up for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the mainstay of many communities around the country, when we are so good at finding good arrangements for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1096	There is no doubt that this winter has been challenging, with historically high power prices, especially in South Norway. The electricity support scheme for households, agricultural industries and voluntary activities has been good and has helped to remedy a situation that would otherwise be even worse. Then we see that the situation in the power market, not least with the unrest in Europe and Russia's invasion of Ukraine, means that we do not come back to an approximate normal situation in the foreseeable future. That is why I am pleased that we, together with SV – and I am now also hearing that the broad majority of the Stortinget will join in – have come to the conclusion of what will be power support schemes until March 2023, and that the current arrangements will be extended by 2022. It gives predictability to people in a troubled time. The aid intensity is increased to 90 pst. in months with the highest expected electricity price and consumption, and accommodation beneficiaries receive an additional supplement for months with a high electricity price. With the interaction between the two schemes, we ensure support for the wider population over a demanding period, while at the same time providing more support to those with the most severe economic situation. That's good social policy. While these are important measures in the short term, the government is working with several long-term measures to improve control of power and energy policy. The government will follow up the power situation 2021 to 2022 with a thorough review of the reasons for the situation of the year and an assessment of the risk to similar situations in the future. That review has been announced that it will also include an assessment of several measures that have emerged in the winter discussion, such as the maximum price of power, filling level requirements in the warehouses and other different ways of securing the power customers. The government has, for example: said that it will engage in dialogue with the United Kingdom and the EU with the aim of ensuring that we avoid long periods of clean exports during periods of low capacity filling, which is important to ensure security of supply. There is a great deal of concern about the fact that the level of flooding in the East is now down to 11.4 p.m. And we're approaching the lowest level in the last 20 years. It's not a sustainable situation, and we have to fence around the mainland energy system. The government has also signaled this with the rent tax to ensure access to favourable fixed-price agreements for businesses and households. It's important. In Norway, therefore, only 3–4 pst are selected. fixed-price contracts, while Sweden has a share of 25 pst. and in Denmark and Finland at 50 p.m. People should be sure that this government is working to make the flow green and reasonable, and that new green industry will be built on the shoulders of the fantastic industry we already have today, and the natural resources we possess, which provide clean, renewable energy into the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1115	There has been no lack of problem descriptions from this pulpit about the situation you have been in during the winter, and about the electricity price crisis common people have been in. We've been talking about increasing electricity prices here too, but what's missing is talking about who's going to get the most out of it. There are people with vulnerable economies, and initially those with already low and medium incomes, combined with high housing costs and families in persistent low incomes. In Norway today, 115,000 children live in poverty. This is a completely fresh number, presented last week. It is discouraging, but it is not surprising, and everyone sitting in this room should be disturbed. It's a very high number, and it's stabilized at a high level. It is our responsibility – there is a political responsibility in this Chamber – to do something about it and stand up for these families. Therefore, it is quite incomprehensible to me that the government parties and SV can agree on what is planned, in particular this with housing support, because the food prices are rising, fuel prices are rising, the electricity prices are still high, and there is going to be great frustration and despair out there that you are now cutting in the extraordinary payment of housing support. Estimates show that the individual family can get up to NOK 35000–50000 in increased living costs in the future, and planning and compensating for such cuts is very demanding – not to say impossible – when the income of the household is already so low that it qualifies for housing support. Having the aid cut overnight, or suddenly not qualified for housing aid at all, may have serious consequences for those concerned. I think it's awfully sad that some of the last politicians are doing here in this room before Easter, is just that: cutting and making a hole in the wallet for the housing aid recipients. This is not the time to cut the extraordinary payment of housing aid. This is the time to ensure predictability and to improve the economy of those who need it the most, the most. With respect to reporting, we can afford to do that, because the Treasury floods revenues because of the exceptionally high power prices, and then we should also take better advice to make sure to pay out higher housing subsidies to those who need it. We have to face the price crisis we are facing, with predictable benefits and targeted measures, not targeted cuts to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1130	Once again, SV had negotiated a much better support scheme for its electricity customers than the government had provided. A 90 pst support. above a current price of 70 øre per kilowatt hour in the months with the highest current price will be a much better measure. The fact that the extensions to housing aid will also apply in these months was important for SV to get in place. In addition, the government parties in the agreement with SV have committed to negotiate with us both a fairer and more accurate power support in the autumn, and on more profound changes in the power policy to ensure that we get better predictability for the country's population and business in the years to come. SV originally proposed a power support scheme now that would have been more accurate and fairer, where we gave more support to the first part of the consumption. It would have premiered people with poor advice and low income. We want to continue working on such an arrangement and look forward to the negotiations with the government parties. As I also said in my question to the Council of State, we cannot base our power policy on sustainable support schemes. We need to have changes in power policy that allow people to live with electricity bills without being dependent on state support. There, SV has launched a proposal to draw inspiration from the agreements that the powerful industry has with the power producers, and where we set up a government agency that buys a lot of power on behalf of consumers and is then sold without profit to households for a reasonable amount of money. Here you can also add gradations to the price that stimulate energy efficiency. Then we see that there's going to be an increase in power consumption in the future, and then we also have to make a priority of what businesses and what kind of business we're going to invest in and use our valuable renewable energy for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1141	One might be tempted to say that Uncle Screw had been really jealous if he had seen how the state and Finance Minister Vedum fill the state register, but of course I shouldn't say so. That being said, the state register is filling up and running over. It's added 277 billion. kr in revenues from oil and gas. That's $1,750. kr. So there are tens of billions of extra dollars in the treasury because of the sky-high power prices, and the money that the state brings into the treasury, into the full money box, is not going to get anything back from business or the inhabitants. Business doesn't get anything, the inhabitants get something, but after my and the Progress Party changed too little. Then it's the relationship to business. It should worry both the Minister of Finance Vedum and the government, and in particular perhaps the Central Party, that many gardens are being laid down in agriculture. There were 1 000 cattle slaughtered because agriculture does not tolerate the high fuel prices and electricity prices. It's dramatic for the industry, and it's an industry that's, after all, been supported – it's probably the only industry that's been supported by power. But what about all the other industries in Norway? They don't intend to lift a finger for them. The problem is that we see in the media -- at least I can read in the media -- that one after another of the companies are going bankrupt because of the high electricity and fuel costs. That is the reality. Then, as a representative, I have tried to get the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy to answer what the Prime Minister intends to say to all the ordinary people who are now missing their jobs because of this situation. The state is going to be rich, while the population gets the bill. But the Prime Minister has shone with his absence. It was to ask the Prime Minister if they would ask their government councils to deliver, but we do not get an answer to that. Then it strikes me that those who want to put the government and the state councils in charge are the voters and the inhabitants. Luckily, we see that the government party is going down, especially the Central Party. They're down to about 6 pst. I expect the selectors to give a clear message, and then the Center Party is down towards the lockdown before the summer break.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1154	I feel that the representatives of the government parties are still in the museum when it comes to talking about business. So there's a business out there that's really worried about now. The messages come every day from new companies that see this starting to be challenging, and the government parties are sitting quietly and probably hoping that it will go over, but it won't go over. Not all companies have a large wallet from which they can collect money to pay taxes and things you pay back to the state. In the case of ordinary people, I believe that part of those who sit in this hall from the government parties are far away from where ordinary people are. Representatives from the government parties go up on this pulpit and say that the unusually high electricity prices have to be compensated, and therefore the current support system we have now is so incredibly good. I don't think people out there feel that it's so great, I.... They pay almost twice as much as they normally paid at power prices. In addition, you have to pay 80 pst. Of that over 70 cents, and then you're going to get 90 cents. compensated. So you say this is giving money back to the people. It's not giving money back to the people, because that's money people have already paid in, and then you get to get a few crumbs back. This government collects taxes and taxes in crazy quantities. Oil revenues are cloud-high, gas revenues are cloud-high, and electricity prices are cloud-high. There are ordinary people and businesses in this country who get that bill, and who have a government that sits perfectly still and says they should consider, they should see what to do. It can't go on like that, because that's how people have to have a job to do, and then business needs help. The councils from Telemark should know this very well, because we have discussed it much both in the election campaign and after the election campaign. I expect him to get on the track, not sit still and leave the business in the hole. I think maybe Vedum should talk to his Minister of Justice and learn that maybe you don't have to copy all the Osloite in the Ministry of Finance clearly think. I experience that for eight years Vedum ran up and down from this pulpit and talked about everything that was wrong and everything that had to be cleaned up, and that it had to happen immediately, while it has now become the new mantra of the Minister of Finance that we have to wait and assess and see. We can't wait and assess and see anymore. It's burning out there. It's very challenging for many. We need action now, and that is why I hope that we actually vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party today. I don't exactly believe in it, but that's what you should do to really take business and ordinary people seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1169	Red aims to increase Norwegian fruit and green production. Therefore, in our alternative state budgets, we have proposed to cut VAT and have a maximum price of 35 øre per kilowatt hour for everyone. The government came with a power pack, but it came too late, and it was too little. The lights were already switched off in many greenhouses in Norway when this electrical package came. But it is not forbidden to correct things, and we have today promoted a loose proposal on the costs of irrigation. It's not just diesel and fertilizer that costs the farmer, which means that we can have food production – no, the water in the dry summers also has a significant cost. It costs money to get the water to the ground, where the seeds are to grow. So we have made a proposal today to correct a clear bias in this regard. If you have a private irrigation system, you are covered by the current support system that is already in place, but if you are part of a community – a layer of irrigation – that some farmers do, you are not covered by this scheme. So we made a loose proposal today to correct this skepticism, but the rapporteur on the matter, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, advised us to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal because this is important. The majority of the population has given a sort of signal that this is going to enter the system that is now coming. So then we take the case rapporteur to the floor and expect the intention of this proposal – to correct this obvious bias – to be taken care of. We look forward to the outcome when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1178	The electricity prices have led us into a completely new situation. Where both consumers and businesses have been used with sufficient and reasonable access to renewable energy, the situation is now completely different. Then we can discuss, as we do today, whether this is an extraordinary situation, or whether it's a new everyday life. So here the government has the opportunity to create predictability for both private and business. They choose not to. The consumer gets a system that I absolutely should have seen was better. So for the difference between Norway as a nation and these other nations that are affected by this energy crisis, Norway is making money at the same time and has ample opportunity to give our business a very different starting point than the others now. We see countries in Europe providing the necessary support for their business, allowing their business to come into a position that allows them to compete, while Norwegian business life is being punished. It's disappointing that the government chooses to be completely absent, and I'm in doubt if they can take this situation seriously. The electricity prices are one thing, but now we've got fuel prices. We see that commodity prices are very challenging. There are many who can now get into the situation that it's not the power price that's the most annoying, because think when they're going to be transferred to Nav's unemployment. We'll get in trouble. It's very disappointing. The government is completely absent, and they do not take the situation seriously. Today we had a press conference, which came from the government, where the additional message for the energy message came. We had great expectations of it, and we really had faith that we have a government that wanted to take ownership of that energy message, which showed the way on something that would make us say that we're going out of this crisis that we're up in now. So they choose to be completely absent. They said nothing to Europe, asking for more power. They said nothing about solutions for the export of natural gas in the Barents Sea, which could solve many problems for business. Hydropower was not mentioned in one word. Rather, they choose to bring forward the conflicts with wind power on land instead of extracting the potential we have for hydropower. Nor was it a word about the export of force that we have to bring down, so we get control of the prices. I doubt that we have a government that takes this situation seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1189	Finance Minister and Center Party leader Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum said in his speech that there will be an improved tax regime that allows companies to conclude long-term fixed-price agreements, such as the powerful industry. But that will not apply until 1 January 2023. Now it's like many companies had actually expected that there were some reliefs in the power prices before the summer, so they might not be able to permit people or cancel people, and maybe they could see better opportunities. They're going to be disappointed when the Center Party here turns itself in for the Workers' Party and does not insist on doing anything now to bring down the power price for business. This also means that it is expected that the sky-high current prices we now have will be sustained and commonplace. Then I want to say that this began long before the terrible, repulsive attack from Putin on Ukraine. It started last fall, and I would argue that this is a partly clear result of the new climate religion and the climate god – the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – which has in fact led to the closure of coal power plants and nuclear power plants in particular by Germany and the United Kingdom. And it's clear that when the production of electricity goes down dramatically to reduce the emissions of the life-giving gas CO 2, the result is sky-high prices. What we should have done is, among other things, what we should have done. the Party proposed to introduce a maximum electricity price of 50 hr/kWh for both households and business customers. It should have been done when we proposed it months ago. Then you had a stable relationship. And it's like it's the public that serves at the high power prices. It's the public that's wasting money. That's why we could have just introduced, and we have a legal basis for that, a maximum price of 50 centimeters/kWh. In addition, inflation is now at risk. The Prime Minister is talking about increasing interest rates to prevent it. It doesn't make any sense, because we have a cost inflation. It's because the electricity prices have risen, the food prices have risen, and in particular the fuel prices have gone up that we get this. Therefore, we should only reduce costs. And if we had implemented the Progress Party's proposal to remove the taxes on petrol and diesel, we would have got those prices down by NOK 6 and NOK 8. That would also solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1205	I'm not going to extend the debate – I think. But only to the representative Halleland: It is important that he follows what is said when holding a press release. It is also important that he reads the additional message for the energy message. We talk a lot about the crisis and the underlying situation, the dramatic thing that's happening in Ukraine and the consequences of it. We are talking about our oil and gas industry, which is to be a stable, long-term and secure supplier to the European market. We're talking about the development of the industry related to carbon capture and storage, about hydrogen and sea wind. We are now using not just words, but concrete actions, to get sea winds in place, both in terms of new areas, shorter concession treatment times and qualitative criteria to bring with us the industry, not least the industry that has lived out of oil and gas. We are talking about land wind – yes – as a completely necessary input factor where municipalities want it and facilitate it to actually happen. The government's ambition is very clear. Unlike the government period of the Advance Party in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, we have a very clear mantra that we should still have sufficient amounts of reasonable renewable energy as a quality in the development of Norway – while taking the UN climate report seriously and not looking at it as a holy god, but as a very clear and clear warning to the whole population that right now it is serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1214	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1228	The size is then ready to go to voting. We're going to vote on the case number first. 7-11 on yesterday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1242	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Development on Nordic cooperation, held at the meeting of the Council on 31 March 2022, be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1273	During the debate, Mr Hagerup put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the suspension of the freezing decision for the examination of applications for recognition as a post-secondary school in a vocational education programme or with a specific profile.’; Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1304	During the debate, Olve Grotle put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left, the Red, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size favours a zero vision of the marine industries and asks the government to come back to the Storing in its own way, as the Council of State has done well in its answer.’ The proposal replaces the recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1325	During the debate, Mr Jørgensen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left, the Red and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking, at the latest on a proposal for a revised national budget for 2022, to come back to the Stortinget with an obligatory plan to tighten up the practice of procurement legislation in respect of compliance by industry with international law in conflict areas.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian train AS does not use the option to purchase another 170 trains from Alstom as long as the latter operate in contravention of the rules of international law applicable in conflict zones.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norwegian train AS does not enter into new contracts with companies which have business contrary to the rules of international law applicable in conflict zones.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1354	It seems that some votes have not been registered, so we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1373	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1385	The size of the store is then added to today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1416	During the debate, Mr Moxnes has tabled two proposals on behalf of Mr Red. There is a vote on proposal No. One from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up its own Norwegian list of persons and institutions to be subject to Norwegian sanctions as a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1433	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to examine the possibility of promoting Norwegian participation in EU sanctions lists in connection with the Russian invasion of Ukraine.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1469	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a new model for power support that sets a maximum price of 35 øre/kWt up to 3000 kWt and 70 øre from 3000 to 5000 kWt.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1493	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Power Shock Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 4, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The Ministry may provide for detailed rules on who is entitled to benefits and the extension of the scheme to network customers engaged in agricultural or other activities. The Ministry may also by regulation lay down provisions covering network customers registered as recreational dwellings.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Power Shock Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 5, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Social benefits are granted only if the social security basis exceeds 50 øre per kWt excluding VAT in the price range in which the customer is affiliated [[threshold]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Power Shock Act shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 5 third paragraph is replaced by the following: The Energy Regulatory Authority shall calculate the social benefit rate based on the following formula: 1,0 x [[removal basis — threshold]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1576	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1586	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1634	It is contested by B in the third paragraph of Section 5. Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Right, Red, Left and Environment Party The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1650	It is added over B other parts of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1661	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1671	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1684	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3 from Tina Bru on behalf of Right and Left the proposals No 4 and 5, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Red and Christian People's Party the proposals No 6-9, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 10-12, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red proposal No 13, from Lan Marie Ngyen Berg on behalf of the Greens proposal No 14, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 14 were converted into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government make proposals to ensure that agricultural irrigation is included in the electricity support scheme for the agricultural and greenhouse industries.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without any responsibilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 13 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 5503 Repayment of high rent taxes on land 70 Refunds to people of high basic interest income are granted by: [[New]] -8 400 000 000
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1781	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10-12, from Red. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2022 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 581 Dwelling and housing measures 70 Housing aid, estimates, is increased by: 2,632,000,000 from NOK 4 335 588 000 to NOK 6 967 588 000 Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked under the Law on Price Measures to impose a maximum price on electricity for customers in Norway and this is equivalent to three times the concession price for power, as calculated by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. For 2022 this is set to 11.57 øre kWt. The size asks the government to combine this with the obligation to detect power producers and the necessary regulation of power exports.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked, as an exceptional immediate measure, to introduce a maximum electricity price for all electricity customers, from households and secondary dwellings and voluntary and non-profit institutions serving businesses.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1874	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-9 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals in the revised national budget of 2022 to ensure that all NPISHs, NPISHs, National Colleges and Associations in the Norwegian Church, as well as sports teams with gas-heated sports facilities, receive 100 pst of electricity. spot price compensation above 50 øre per kWh on average for the month from April 2022 until March 2023.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make proposals in the revised national budget of 2022 to include producers with greenhouses using gas for heating in the power support scheme for the agricultural and greenhouse industries.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that garage layers, communal heating centres and companies supplying heat to housing companies are included in the electricity support system.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting with proposals to include commercial activities and leisure properties in the established electricity support scheme, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2022.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e1906	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Party of Advancement, the Red Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2022 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 315 Voluntary objectives 61 Temporary grant scheme for non-governmental organisations resulting from exceptional electricity prices is increased by: 400,000 from NOK 250000000 to NOK 650000000 Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate 75 Grants to households for exceptional electricity costs, estimates, are increased by: 12,900,000,000 from NOK 9 20000000 to NOK 22 10000000
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e2057	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3, from the right and left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2022 shall be amended as follows: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona 1820 Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate 75 Grants to households for exceptional electricity costs, estimates, are increased by: 7 400,000,000 from NOK 9 20000000 to NOK 16 600000000 Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks, as part of the evaluation of the electricity support system, for a solution whereby increased housing aid to compensate for exceptional increases in the electricity price can be geographically targeted to those areas where electricity prices are exceptionally high.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e2143	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an application-based municipal compensation scheme for small enterprises with particularly high electricity costs in the price ranges of South Norway.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e2162	I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e2167	The result is that 61 representatives voted against and 38 voted in favour of the proposal from the Right and the Left. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e2388	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Right, Red, Left and Environment Party The Greens have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e2409	Behind the setting are the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Environment Party the Greens. The party of progress, the Red Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e2425	Several have reported that the vote was not recorded, and we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-08.ana.ud82e2446	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Then it just remains to thank for the effort and wish everyone a really good Easter. Then we meet again on April 20 to work towards summer. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
