ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e80	Representatives Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Kathy Lie, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Marianne Sivertsen Naess, Helge André Njåstad, Maria Aasen-Svensrud and Grete Wold, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For East Agder: Abel Cecilie Knibe Kroglund and Oddbjørn Kylland For West Agder: Amalie Gunnufsen For Hordaland: Sigbjørn Framnes For Oslo: Sofie Højestøl For Telemark: Olav Urbø Three permit applications are available: by the Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament on leave under Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February and until further notice, by the Red Group on Permits under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure of the representative Seher Aydar from 15 February onwards and until further notice by the Christian People's Party Group on Permit pursuant to the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinge Parliamentary Assembly of Olaug Vervik Bollestad from 15 February onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus: Kristoffer Robin Haug For Oslo: Stine Westrum For Rogaland: Hadle Rasmus Bjuland
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e184	Kristoffer Robin Haug, Stine Westrum and Hadle Rasmus Bjuland are present and will take the seat. The representative of Mr Wetrhus Thorsvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e191	On behalf of the representatives of Abid Raja, Guri Melby and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen the quality of teaching for students under the pandemic and to follow up the student's study progress and teaching offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e196	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Case No. 1-3 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e238	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e254	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e261	Agriculture is one of Norway’s most important industries. Not only is it Norway’s most decentralised — agriculture produces it that, when it comes to the problem, it is the most important thing for a nation. Agriculture stands out for us, with healthy, safe and good food and drink on the table in all Norwegian homes. Now we have to stand up for them. High electricity prices require prompt and cash policy responses. That's why, in a few months, the Big Government has granted 14 billion. Norwegian Krone to reduce electricity bills in Norway. About half a billion of them, we in the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will spend on reducing electricity costs for agriculture. Of course, it is urgent to have the money paid quickly. That is why the government has presented this proposition in a short time, and it is appropriate to thank an overall committee for a very rapid examination of the matter. It has been important to ensure rapid payments before electricity bills are due to be paid for farm use throughout Norway. 500 million. Hopefully, the kr will save the same number of tomatoes, cucumbers, salads, spices and flowers – crops produced by the most powerful agriculture this winter. The working party is also very satisfied that we are finding a scheme for 29 000 households that was at risk of falling between all compensation schemes for increased electricity prices. It's common people's policy. Let's raise our eyes. Since the Christian People’s Party does not have a place in the nutrition committee, it is up to us others to spice the debate with a Bible quotation or two. In Egypt Joseph foresaw seven lean years after seven feet. In 2013 we got in Norway instead Right and Advance Party. While the Lord thought that seven lean years were allowed to last in Egypt, the government of Solberg added another lean agricultural settlement here in Norway. The results are well displayed both in official statistics and in rural areas throughout Norway. Last year, twelve farms were closed every week. It is almost 2/1/2 every two days throughout the year. If the Lord got enough after eight years of blue-blue agricultural policy, he does not know, but certainly it is that the voters in Norway said clearly from in the big elections. Then the Right Party and the Advance Party became the great losers of the election, while the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV were given a majority on Stortinget. The majority undertakes. Social change does not occur overnight. Societal change occurs by laying stones on stones. In December last year, the Workers' Party and the Centre laid an important stone for agriculture in the additional 754 million. kr. Today, together with SV, we are adding a new, important stone, and to summer we are going to add another important stone for Norwegian agriculture. Our goal is to lay down so many stones that during the ageing period we have built a strong foundation for growth and optimism in Norwegian agriculture. Our goal is a foundation that is so strong that it even tolerates the Lord's anger, or perhaps even a new blue-blue majority. It needs Norwegian agriculture, and we all need other people who want to have living villages and safe and healthy Norwegian food on the table. Now the common people are walking around the whole country that we are so happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e276	National food production is important for good food preparedness, and the food production that agriculture provides is fundamentally important to us. This says itself, but one can say it ill. When power prices get extraordinarily high, it goes beyond the ability to focus on and operate with food production. Both agriculture and the green economy are therefore dependent on the country’s entry into contact if something special happens. And something has happened especially in winter, with electricity prices in some parts of the country that we are all being horrified about. Therefore, the government has previously come with a household arrangement. The government has now come up with a proposal to amend the State budget, which provides for a temporary social welfare scheme for the agricultural and growth industries resulting from exceptionally high electricity costs. We in the Center Party and the Labour Party don't have multiples on the Stortinget alone. That's why we're happy to have multiples for the system together with SV. We also appreciate the fact that all the other parties in the nutrition committee have joined the proposal from the government to this power support scheme. The scheme shall include active enterprises in the agricultural and growing industries, and the facilities will be similar to those for households. In practice, it would say that the State covers 55 pst. of electricity costs over 70 øre per kWh for December last year. From January to March of this year, a tyre shall be 80 pst. This applies to a ceiling of up to 20,000 kWh per month for agriculture, and for greenhouses there will be no roof. I know that many people in the greenhouse diet were relieved when this scheme was announced. A matter that does not belong directly below these, but which is nevertheless relevant, is that there are 29,000 households falling between two chairs when different schemes are created for households and for agricultural property. Those who are registered as having agricultural property but are not active users fall outside both schemes, because there is an activity requirement associated with receiving power support as an agricultural enterprise. For this reason, it has been important for us in the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party to state that these 29 000 households should be able to enter the ordinary household arrangement, where they in practice belong at home, even if they have been registered elsewhere. This case has been about power support, but we, who have negotiated in the three named parties, have also found together clear promises of a positive direction for agriculture after having had eight years with the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party as the leader of agricultural policy. It is about the degree of self-sufficiency for us who are now making up the majority of the Storting, about closing the revenue gap and about facilitating a commitment also to small and medium-sized applications. This is essential if you are to be able to use our natural resources in the best possible way to provide food for the Nordics in the future. At the moment, each of them in the agricultural industry may be puzzled by the increasing price of inputs needed by farmers. This is why there is an important signal from the government that the cost growth of fertilisers, building materials and electricity is to be properly assessed, and that this is to be treated as part of the soundness of our agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e291	The question that worries most of the Nordics right now, and that's been doing it for months now, is the increased power price. There is a cost that has made life difficult for many individuals, families and businesses, and it comes at the top of increased interest rates, increased taxes, increased fuel taxes, increased food prices, increased ownership of disease and increased housing costs. Most people have just received a little less advice. Not everything can be attributed to today's government, but a good deal. Although what we are debating here today is power support for agriculture and the greenhouse industry, it is worth looking at this issue in a broader perspective. Although many point to single factors, there is probably a complex backtrace that has created today's situation. No one claims that the current prices are high because of today's government. It's not at all useful to allocate blame here, but it's the government's responsibility that power prices hit businesses and people most as hard as they do. It would have been quite possible to put in place some early arrangements, which could have really relieved the situation many people are in, but that option the government chose not to take. You could have removed the VAT on electricity, you could have removed the electricity tax, you could have released a cash subsidy for households and businesses, and you could have put a maximum price on electricity. Instead, the state has chosen to be out on its own. The tens of billions of extra income that the government receives with the increased prices, they lubricate thinly on all more or less good political issues. At the latest in the budgetary negotiations between the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government early in December, increased State-owned dividends were spent on everything but power support. One simply did not understand the seriousness and concern of many. The same thing can unfortunately be said about the situation now as well. It is good to have a compensation scheme for agriculture and the greenhouse industry. It supports an overall committee, but there are major shortcomings. This is why we are promoting more powerful proposals today that will make everyday life simpler and more reasonable for the wider business community in Norway. We suggest that the government should prepare a power support for enterprises according to the same model as for households. It is fine for primary agricultural producers to be compensated, but more are also needed in food production, for example. in the food industry. We've been looking up in the media around companies that get both double and triple power bills compared to the years before. One example is the Stangeland mill in Rogaland. There comes the increased power costs on top of commodity shortages and sky-high transport and logistics prices. Now they have to make drastic efforts to survive at all, and one of the options is to switch to night production to exploit power prices that are lower than they are in the daytime. For a government that claims to be concerned with workers’ rights and well-being, it must be demanding to sit down and see that this is the consequence of government policy — or lack of it. Greenhousehold farming is part of agriculture, which is essentially quite good and largely free of heavy subsidies. They have had steady and good growth over several years and supply Norwegian consumers with greenery all year round. But a prerequisite for them to produce what they do is heating, and some actors will remain standing without support schemes. These are the many greenhouses currently using gas for heating purposes. They're out of all arrangements. Gas prices have shot in the last year, in the same way as the current price. The paradox is that some of these people want to connect to the mains, but they are not able to do so because of the lack of capacity on the network. So they are automatically locked inside a system, and they are left with very high costs. At the top of the whole, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture chose to impose an additional burden on this industry from 1 January this year. In the past, the greenhouse industry has been exempt from the CO 2 tax, but it seemed that Borch and her colleagues in the government were too rusty. Therefore, they started with the introduction of a completely new fee for this industry at the end of the year, at the worst possible time. For this reason, we propose that, in the context of the revision, the introduction of this fee be suspended and an application-based power support scheme be introduced for those using gas. I address our suggestions in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e309	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e314	The current situation of Norwegian agriculture is critical. Last year, 12 uses were dropped every week – more than one every day. If one looks back to 2000, it's 40 pst. of the agriculture we had then, gone. 40 pst. is gone in 22 years. In my county, Troms – where it becomes extensive, where one has a topography with mountains and very productive area with amazing pasturage, but where there is more spread, where there is grazing and milk production – the decline has been even greater. A drive now and builds up agriculture in Norway, and it has accelerated for less than eight years with blue handlebars. It's accelerated. We're becoming more dependent on imports, and there's less food production based on Norwegian land resources. There is a dangerous development, both in the medium and not at least in the long term, in a world where food production is weaned and weaned. The number of poor people worldwide is now increasing. Food prices globally haven't been so high since 2011, and we're thinking about what happened then, with the Arab Spring, which was a direct child of that evolution. The SV's line in this case is to support the peasants, who are now in a very difficult liquidity situation with additional prices on the current, but as we also maintained in the talks with the government party, we see more broadly this. There have been galloping prices of absolutely all important, decisive inputs in agriculture: fertilisers, feed, fuel, barley, materials. What's decisive that we have an agriculture today has increased in price. More than one third of the farmers' income has now been extinguished due to price. When they now enter the growing season, just before spring, there are many who are overcrowded with bills that are already too high, and they consider whether to step down, trade in less manure, bring down production and have fewer animals, which at the end will make us even less self-sufficient in this country, contrary to what is and should be the goal of Norwegian agriculture. SV wants to lift the farmer. We want to have more farmers. We want to put the earth back into action. We think it's wise to have a significantly larger production of food in Norway based on our resources, that we're reusing the land that's gone out of use, for example. Troms. That's our starting point. That's what's going on in the Committee's configuration, where we've found agreement with the government's party to think even wider. Power is important. The second important thing is that if this is necessary — if this could lead to farmers leaving the profession unnecessarily and if this would reduce food production — the government must come back with the necessary measures to prevent it. The mission now is that we have no farmers to lose, no food production to lose in ours. Then comes the next big project that takes place with a new plurality on the Storting in the agricultural negotiations. Then the escalation has to start. Then we're going to take back the income gap that has existed between farmers and other groups in society, which is itself a machine for the reduction of agriculture in the whole country, and especially the scattered, extensive agriculture. We're going to turn that around. The first principle of agricultural negotiations and policies should be that the revenue gap should be closed and that we should become more self-sufficient, not less. This contrasts in stark contrast with the policy that has been pursued for eight years, where one seems to believe that future agriculture in Norway is declining, more imports and more dependence on inputs from abroad. What's special about agriculture is that it's a political industry where prices are put through agreements with the state. So when the calculation was taken into account in the agreement, all of a sudden, as it has done – prices have gone on the roof – the entire cost will be passed on to the farmer alone. Farmers who are initially economically laboured, and who are far from other groups in society, have got that bill. So it's a political responsibility to come back to these expenses and make sure that the calculation of electricity, manure, etc. be compensated. That would also be the starting point for SV. We want it to be fully compensated for when you want to make up the problem. This will happen in the context of the agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e335	Representatives, you who follow the debate, and not least all who live by eating food: the power crisis has hit farmers very hard. When we see farm use struggling with liquidity, it's serious, and it's heartwarming to see people who have laid down their entire professional life to produce food for us others, saying that it's not safe they can endure anymore. High electricity prices threaten Norwegian self-sufficiency. I hope the government sees that energy policy not only provides difficult times for households, but is actually in the way of producing the food we need here in the country. Norway needs the farmer, and we don't have a single farm to lose. This crisis shows us that today's energy market is not working. Red's primary position is that we should take political control of the energy market and introduce a maximum price on electricity. We have proposed 35 øre per kWh. If the government had dared to take political control of energy, as we did when we built up the Norwegian mainland industry, we could ensure that both households, farms, industry and the greenhouse industry had received clean energy at a reasonable price. However, when the government is not willing to take political responsibility and introduce the maximum price, support schemes are the second best. However, we are concerned that the threshold for support for farm use is too high. Red therefore proposes that the aid scheme should be implemented at a power price of more than 35 øre per kWh and not 70 øre, as the Government Parties and SV propose. So you can ask yourself, isn't it going to be very expensive? Yes, it is expensive when the state has to clear up the weaknesses in the market, but abandoned use and weakened Norwegian self-sufficiency and food security are much more expensive. We also believe it is fair that the state uses its revenues from the very high electricity price to protect agriculture, which is now being thrown under the bus with today's energy policy. The electricity price crisis comes to the top of other agricultural problems. In addition to record electricity bills, which are too many, perhaps NOK 30000-40,000 more than you are used to, have among other things. The price of fertilisers and building materials increased enormously. We need to avoid a liquidity crisis in agriculture, and then we need these expenditures to be compensated. I note that the Minister refers to the fact that these expenditures are to be dealt with in the context of the agricultural negotiations for spring, but I am very concerned that it may be too late for many. Once agricultural negotiations have been concluded at some point in June, many farms may already have gone bankrupt. That is why the Farm and Small User Team have also taken the initiative to launch additional negotiations now. We in Red agree with the Small Farmers' Team and with the farmers' uprising and with farmers who are struggling all over the country, that this is the most sensible way of compensating for the expenses. It seems that the Minister proposes a solution where government parties and SV will negotiate compensation for each input factor – three weeks of electricity negotiation, two weeks of manure, three weeks of building materials, and then perhaps about space for round balls – while farmers see that the wallet becomes thinner and thinner. We believe that it is the farmers who are to sit at the negotiating table and not my colleagues here on the Stortinget. That is why we have also proposed that the government use the opportunity to start further negotiations with agriculture immediately, so that both the farmers and farmers can come to the negotiating table and put in place the compensation needed by agriculture now. To sum up, we need a maximum price of electricity. If the government parties do not want to participate in it, we need a more generous support system, and in any case we need to open up the agricultural negotiations so that farmers can be compensated for the price crisis. Then they can use the ordinary negotiations for the spring for what we desperately need, namely to strengthen farmers' incomes. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e354	Then the representative Marie Snee Martinussen mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e359	The winter's power crisis has hit a lot of people hard. The Christian People's Party's starting point is that electricity is a common good. That we have cheap electricity in Norway is something we want to keep going. The winter’s high electricity prices have been excessive for many — families, individuals, volunteers and businesses. It quickly became clear that the agricultural industry did not receive much help from the scheme that came from the government. This has put many farmers in a difficult situation, and it is at the top of an already difficult economic situation with high fertiliser prices and other increased expenditure. Agriculture depends on electricity to keep its operations going, and many farmers now report sky-high electricity bills that can have a significant impact on its operation and on Norwegian food production. The growing industry, which in these days plants, is dependent on electricity for production. More fears now that they have to shut down the operation because the power prices make it unprofitable. An aid scheme is necessary to ensure that we maintain Norwegian food production. That's why there's been a long hurry to set up a system that works and that hits right. The government’s management of the power crisis has been characterised by an ever-tanglement of the arrangements — a slight increase here, a little adjustment there. This arrangement is part of this. Instead of creating a system where the farmers were included from the start, they have forced the farmers to use the forces to get their proposal out to deal with it urgently in the Stortinget now. That is why the Christian People’s Party has made a proposal for a maximum price that ensures that we compensate for over 50 cents for all power customers. We do this after seeing this patchwork of arrangements from the government and seeing that one is unable to hit as one wishes. The Christian People's Party believes it's much better to land on a system that gives the same thing to all power customers, which is easy to understand, and which is temporary for the most critical phase that we're in the middle of now. That's why we're proposing a maximum price or compensation for anything over 50 cents, from December 2021 to February 2022. I take up the Christian People's Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e370	The representative of Hadle Rasmus Bjuland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e376	In the spring of 2021 there was a break in the agricultural negotiations because agriculture meant that the previous government made an offer that was not even good enough to start negotiations. In accordance with the usual procedure, the State's offer was presented and adopted by Stortinget. Since then, the international market has evolved in a completely different way from that created by the Stortinget at the time. Last October, there was such a large cost increase in fertilizers and building materials that even the previous government accepted that there was a basis for starting exceptional agricultural negotiations. However, they had to be completed by this government, which increased the budget for agriculture by 754 million. kr. In addition, this government also granted 200 million. kr for investment in poultry to ensure animal welfare. Other costs had also increased more than foreseen in the autumn of 2021. However, since the agricultural agreement is about the income opportunities for traders, where both the income side and the cost side may vary, the parties agreed to shift the remaining questions to the ordinary agricultural negotiations in the spring of 2022. Then you would have a new basic material from the budget subject and be able to see all the items in the context. After this, however, the electricity price continued to rise to a level that could not be predicted. This caused many financial problems to households, and we reported that agricultural producers with a high share of costs of electricity either stepped down their production or assessed to liquidate it. This is backed by the fact that the government first promoted a proposal for electricity support for households, and now – in this proposition – also proposes an additional power support for agricultural production and horticulture. We have estimated, on an uncertain basis, that this power support system requires an allocation of 500 million. kr. In total, this government has granted 1.5 billion. extra kr for agriculture between two agricultural settlements. Electricity support for agriculture and horticulture is not an easy system to implement. It was important for the government to have this support paid quickly. As a result, the Directorate of Agriculture is now working on bombs to make the first payments by the end of February. The scheme is based on the same model as the household electricity support scheme and the benefit is valid for the period December 2021 until March 2022. The social security benefit rate is set to 55 pst. for December and 80 pst. for January, February and March, corresponding to households. For primary agricultural producers, a ceiling of 20000 kW per month per undertaking is set. The ceiling is estimated to cover the electricity consumption of most agricultural enterprises. In the greenhouse industry, this is a producer with a high power consumption, and therefore no thank-you has been proposed for this industry. We have chosen to limit this power support to agricultural and greenhouse producers. This means that we can provide the support under the temporary law on social benefits to households as a result of exceptional electricity costs, i.e. the Electricity Services Act. I stress that the scheme concerns agricultural activities and therefore does not fall within the scope of the EEA State aid rules. It'll always be that when you put a limit somewhere, someone will fall outside. I have no problem seeing that there may be other entrepreneurs who also have major challenges related to the current prices we have now. However, this is a question that the government and the Stortinget may have to come back to. Now I am asking for support to implement this measure, which is of great importance to many agricultural and greenhouse producers. I would like to stress that tomorrow the money from the additional negotiations that the government has entered into with agriculture will be paid out. Tomorrow it will be paid 11.5 billion. NOK to Norwegian agriculture. I hope that can help resolve the situation, even though I am fully aware that it is not enough, and that it will also be a topic in the agricultural negotiations of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e399	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e404	This has been a very tough year for agriculture. It has been a very tough year for all industries, but I am glad that we are now establishing a system for agriculture and growth, and will encourage the Council of State to put it in place quickly. I think we share that perception that it's important. At the same time, it is important to stress that there are many industries that are hard hit by electricity prices without having the same scheme. I heard the Council of State say this is just about the European Union. We have heard that answer from the Council of State before, but why does the government not want to find a system that can support those who run small and medium-sized enterprises, in the same way as those who operate agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e411	First, I have to say that it is good for the Right to take part in the debate on Norwegian agriculture, even though I missed them on the pulpit in the round with main posts. So I just want to clarify that what I have said about the EEA is that I am happy that agriculture is not covered by EEA legislation, because that is precisely why we can make these payments quickly. For this reason, the Directorate of Agriculture is now working on a scheme that can already be paid by the end of February, and the government has just completed the additional negotiations on which the previous government has not been able to deliver. The government follows the situation in the power market closely, and we will not reject the fact that it may be relevant to take new action. I just want to make it clear that today we are discussing a power package for Norwegian agriculture, which I am very pleased that we have got in place, and which will help to remedy the situation in agriculture, which is now quite acute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e420	Does the Council mean, then, that the EEA does not provide room for electricity support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the same way that we provide electricity support for agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e425	I would encourage the representative to hear what the Council of State says. What the Council of State said, was that I am glad that the EEA does not apply to Norwegian agriculture, because that is precisely why we have put in place a system now, which means that we get a quick payment in February.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e430	The point of all electricity compensation schemes is to relieve abnormally high costs, first for households, and now for, among others. agriculture, but only for part of the agriculture, the government has decided, i.e. those who use electricity. Those who use gas for heating do not get anything, despite the fact that they experience an equally high cost increase due to very high gas prices. Then some of the argument goes away, that's to compensate for high costs. At the top of it all, the government has introduced a new own levy for those in the greenhouse industry using gas for heating purposes. Will the Council of State confirm that from 1 January this year the time for this new Centerlot fee was at best not quite optimal?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e435	This is a question I have been in Stortinget and answered quite many times. It is important to clarify that it was the previous government that proposed this fee, set at 20 pst. The new government has introduced 10 pst. Then, like the representative, I'm concerned about the situation in all of agriculture, including in the greenhouse industry, and I've said that the government is now looking at the individual cases where the power package doesn't hit because you have a different energy supply. So we're now working on identifying the individual cases that the representative is looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e442	It is nice for primary producers to receive support, and it is nice that the greenhouses that use electricity for heating are supported. But it is difficult for us to understand that this government is pulling its legs and omitting a number of actors from the arrangements they have put forward. For many of the enterprises and industries that should be close to the heart of an agricultural minister, for example: the food industry, such power support had helped enormously, e.g. for Stangeland Mølle, as I mentioned in my post. But they're meeting a closed door at the government. So Borch corresponds to Westgaard-Halle that you have to look at it. You might be waiting for new media lookups before the government takes hold. At least the Council of State says there might be something coming in the future. What does it take for the government to go from word to action and actually reconsider this and take action? How many examples from business do you need before strong action is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e447	I would like to remind you that we are here to deal with a power package for Norwegian agriculture, which was also one of the requirements of the organisations. I would also like to remind the representative that his party in its alternative budget cut 1.5 billion. SEK to Norwegian agriculture. It had sent Norwegian agriculture into an even larger and acute crisis than it is now. Then I would like to point out again that the government is now following the situation in the power market carefully, and I will not, as I said, reject that it might be relevant to take new grips. But what we are discussing today is a power package for Norwegian agriculture, which will significantly remedy the situation in the industry. And, as I've been to the past: I know that the situation out there is acute and critical, and there are also factors that are going to be important in this year's agricultural negotiations with Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e454	It is illustrative that the right-hand side is hiding in this debate and will talk about anything other than Norwegian agriculture. There are many good points, but we are now talking about Norwegian agriculture and the acute crisis that is, not just on the current, but on many inputs. In the notes, Stortinget gives the plural a clear message – some of the parties shine with their absence in the notes – to the government to follow the situation that one is currently in in agriculture. SV's starting point is that we have no farmers to lose in ours, we have no production to lose. If we see tendencies that the time we're in now leads to it, we need to grab hold of it. Is the Council of State and the Government now preparing the necessary measures, and is there something that one has come to the depths of the last time this matter was up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e460	I thank you for the question. The government follows the situation closely from week to week. And then I would like to stress the importance of the fact that the agricultural negotiations for spring, which we are about to begin, are becoming incredibly important also in terms of the factors that are involved in increasing costs. There I have also raised the issue – and the majority in the vote here today is also calling for this – that we need to look at payments already in 2022, even if we negotiate for 2023. So now the Budgetary Department for Agriculture is working with figures that will be presented in the negotiations in the agricultural settlement. The cost picture will also be covered. The numerical basis will be important for the further work the government will do, and not least for the further work we will do in a number of other areas of Norwegian agriculture. It's probably as important as closing the income gap between farmers and other groups in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e467	A few weeks ago, I read a news that made me think maybe we didn't need this debate in Stortinget, because then the Norway Group and the Reitan Group went out and said that the prices included. on milk and butter had to rise, and from 1 February the prices of milk and butter for us consumers have increased by approx. 17 pst. The reasons for the Norway Group and the Reitan Group included: increased electricity prices. Then one could naively think that it would cover the increased electricity prices of the farmers. It's never wise to be naive, because of course that's not the case. As of 1 January, Norwegian farmers actually get less money for the milk than they did before. So my question -- maybe a little bit on the side of today's debate, but still important when we're talking about using the community's funds to support the farmers -- is whether the government council is concerned about the power conditions in the value chain, which could end up with what we consumers pay extra, not end up with the farmers, but end up with the big food chains and some of Norway's richest people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e472	I thank you for a good and important question. I have met with the food chains and also encouraged a more even distribution throughout the whole value chain. What I want to address now is more transparency, the effects of food chains controlling and owning an increasingly large part of the value chain, and the effects of an increasing proportion of the chain's own brands. Dialogue is important here. It's important that everyone takes their share of social responsibility in the acute situation we're in now. And then it's not to hide that two thirds of the farmer's income comes from the market, so the market is also important for the income opportunities of Norwegian farmers. Then we depend on the whole value chain taking on its social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e477	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e484	There is an exceptional situation in agriculture, with a very demanding cost increase. An overall committee notes that the purpose of the electricity support scheme is to contribute to the maintenance of Norwegian food production and Norwegian production in greenhouses despite the exceptional costs of electricity. The large cost increase was also the background to the additional negotiations between the parties in the autumn of 2021, resulting in a temporary cost compensation of 754 million. kr. This compensation will be paid tomorrow, as the Council of State said. It is known that increased electricity prices were also a topic addressed by agriculture in the additional negotiations, but there was an agreement to assess the level of cost growth for other inputs, in order to better deal with it as a whole in the context of the agricultural settlement for spring. I am pleased that the government has taken the acute situation seriously, and that we can today deal with a temporary support scheme for the industry, with the goal of payment at the end of the current month. The scheme is based on the principles of the household electricity support scheme, but with a significantly higher ceiling for agriculture and without upper limits for greenhouses. In total, exceptional measures following the government change mean an increase in agricultural appropriations of about 1,5 billion. kr. Additional investment aid appropriations of 200 million are included. kr. The economic situation of many practitioners is serious. Therefore, such exceptional measures are important. It is essential for Norway’s food security, preparedness and development in the districts. Such grips shall contribute to ensuring food production in the short and long term. The challenges associated with exceptional costs are certainly given great attention in the forthcoming agricultural settlement. Norway’s Bondelag and Norwegian Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams will play a crucial role in designing agricultural policies that balance both income and self-sufficiency, and that there is a meeting on the negotiating institute. I am pleased that the majority supports the government's objective of closing the income gap and that increased self-sufficiency should be the guiding principle of agricultural policy and in shaping the country's negotiating basis for agricultural policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e495	The power crisis affects many and is of great concern. We have heard that from many speakers. The dream scenario is that we can give to anyone who needs it, but the world is not like that. Why should we support agriculture and farmers in particular? Then we have to look at the story a little bit. In the postwar period, there was great poverty and need in Norway, and there was a shortage of food. That's when we started limiting what farmers could take for their products, because what they sold, because we didn't want the farmers to make money on the poverty that was, and that people needed food. At that time, we should have no regard for farmers today when they are in an extraordinary crisis. I am pleased that the new government, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and with the support of SV, can support agriculture in the current crisis they are in, and that we will later be doing a lot, much more for agriculture. It is clear that when we regulate what they can do – and we have heard about the chain of custody, which is a challenge, there are some others who make money, and not farmers – it is time we took it up. It's interesting to hear posts from those who used to be in the government who's standing here talking about agriculture and how important agriculture is, when you had eight years to do something, but let's just lift this industry to the level that's needed. The Christian People's Party used the term "laptop" to refer to the power packs and crisis packages. Then I want to say that agriculture has almost become a patchwork, which we are struggling to get to hang in the way that the situation is today, so I am very happy with what is adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e506	It was nice that the government finally made proposals for such a temporary aid scheme, but it is sad that it is not very close enough. I refer to the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and I should like to make a point of order. 1:@item: inlistbox ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for electricity support for enterprises of the same model as for households.’ As you know, the model of the Advance Party for households is that we cover 80 pst. of which more than 50 ores per kWh instead of 70 ores. There is a significant difference, and our system would be far, far better for the agricultural industry as well. In addition to increased electricity costs, this industry is also affected by increased transport costs and operating costs when using petrol and diesel to operate machinery. And then I would like to remind you that the Progress Party during the budgetary procedure proposed reducing both the petrol and diesel taxes by 3 kroner per litre. So this would lead to a lower price of NOK 3 and 75 øre, both on diesel and petrol, when we include the VAT that will also apply to the taxes. It says it's a temporary arrangement. I think there's a lot of evidence that the prices we have on the electricity, aren't going to change so much, maybe something in the middle of the summer when it's warmer and we don't have to fire, but it's the European electricity market that's now in real life, unfortunately, after we've got too many cables and become part of the European market. This means that the supply side will continue to be reduced as Germany shuts down several nuclear power plants, and there will be no new supply of electricity in the coming years, for it will take a long, long time. I am also pleased with our proposal to postpone the introduction of CO 2 tax for the greenhouse industry to 2023 at the earliest. It will also help those who use gas as energy, who emit CO 2. With regard to those who use gas for heating and have not yet been included, I am pleased that the Progress Party proposes that those who use gas for heating should also come under the arrangements that are now in place. But the best thing would have been if Storting's other parties had joined our proposal for a maximum electricity price of 50 øre per kWh. Then we had released many of these special arrangements, because 50 cents per kWh will be able to survive with the vast majority of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e528	For the Center Party, it is, and has always been, very important that we ensure safe Norwegian food based on Norwegian natural resources. It's a social responsibility to make sure that we produce as much food as we can for our own people. If we're going to do that, it requires us to make sure that the farmers actually make it go around and have an income to live on. In a situation where electricity costs are exceptional, I am very pleased that we have now agreed on a power support scheme for the agricultural and greenhouse industries. Our goal is that this is to be paid already now, in the second half of February. The proposed budget is 500 million. kr, which will be very important for the rapid improvement of industry liquidity. Overall, all these exceptional measures we have taken now, after the government change, mean an increase in agricultural appropriations of about 1.5 billion. kr – additional investment aid for small and medium-sized applications is included. It is important to ensure the formation of income in an exceptional cost situation. We also have to recognize that ruling in times of crisis means that we have to try a little bit ahead. Some schemes prove to work, some have to be modified and scaled up. Therefore, it will be very important that we follow the situation closely in the future. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is very important that we continue to protect the negotiating institute and the important role of Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers' Teams in designing a sound agricultural policy. The economic situation of many in agriculture is serious. It is crucial for Norway’s food security, for preparedness and, not least, for jobs and development in the districts that we ensure income growth, so that we also now facilitate food production in the short and long term. This system is an important start to it, and it is a good signal for the future agriculture, because after eight years of farming at the bottom of the priority list for the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, they finally have a government that wants to play on teams, which sees the value of the work that is being laid down and that takes them seriously. It will be noticed in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e537	The left is pleased that we have now come up with a case, and that there is a joint committee that supports the fact that we are now putting in place a power support package for agriculture and the greenhouse industry. It is good, it is important, and it is absolutely necessary for Norwegian agriculture. There have been several comments from the government party on why in all the worlds we are talking about other things from the opposition’s side – that we are calling for the corresponding schemes to be put in place also for small and medium-sized enterprises that are the subject of high electricity prices in other industries. Well, there's two reasons for that. Firstly, it is very difficult to see the logic that one here comes into being with exceptional measures for agriculture based on a good argument, but an argument that also applies to small businesses in many other industries. We have talked to a despaired owner of the business in Sogn who told us that he was first informed that the new government had to recoup the property tax, so he had to take money out of the company to pay it. Then he gets a click on the power calculation, which he has no space to extract. If he cancels out the prices of his product, he is out of competition by his competitors from abroad and low-cost countries in Eastern Europe. Such examples are many of them. Now that we have actually been told in the process that there are no formal obstacles to providing power support for small and medium-sized enterprises in other industries, we think from the Left side that it should be in place. And I have to admit that I had great hopes, I was actually a little happy, when I learned that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV needed more time to negotiate this power package, that the temptations were postponed. Then I was quite happy, because I figured that one of the things that I was working on was to get an extension of the system in place. It wasn't like that, and it's incomprehensible and disappointing from the left. The second reason why we are forced to address these questions now, in a case that is isolated only for agriculture, is that on a general basis, we have major problems from the opposition's side to get the government to take a holistic discussion of how we approach this power crisis whole-heartedly and directly for all parts of society. We were downhearted when, before Christmas, we presented ourselves with a proposal to come back and see what can be done for business. We were discouraged before Christmas when we wanted to see what could be done for voluntary teams and organisations. We have a government that is in arrears and comes naggingly behind with bit by bit in these matters instead of having the holistic perspective that not least small and medium-sized enterprises in many industries around the country now need. So that's what we're doing, and so from the left-hand side, I'm going to take up formal proposal No. 5, where we ask the government to return to Stortinget with proposals for application-based municipal compensation scheme of at least one billion kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e552	The representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e557	I thought I would deal with three things that came up in the debate. I think the post for Carl I. Hagen is a good starting point. The Progress Party calls for one to have the same model of power support for different parts of society. Then I just want to clarify a very important difference when it comes to agriculture. The income of the farmer is agreed through the agricultural agreement, while the income of the wage earners is agreed through wage negotiations – as a price increase in society is capped so that a wage trend is higher than price developments. For agriculture, the situation is different. The income is specified in the agreement, and when the basis of income is changed, one cannot operate with the same model as for other parts of society. Then you have to go back to the agreement and see what the power source was there, what was the technical power price in the agreement, and what was the basis for the agreement. That's what to compensate for. One cannot say that it should be exactly the same model regardless of the social sector. Then one misunderstands the agreement on which agriculture is based for income. That's what makes this case complicated. What we're talking about here is power support for December, January, February and March. SV believes that when you want to make up the total calculation of the difference between the agreement and the additional costs that farmers have now received, you have to look at the entire period of the agreement, the commitments that the government has entered into, not just a selection of months. For agriculture there is a definition of income that is quite different from other parts of society, with some exceptions. To those who call for a lower limit: we also raised this issue, but we think that one should come back to it when one is going to make up for the difference between income and the actual price. When it comes to self-sufficiency, we in SV think that we have negotiated well with the government, and that we also need to talk about a regional self-sufficiency, that is, the wage growth and density of the pay gap, the income gap between farmers and other groups in society, should be independent of the size of use, the part of the country and the type of production, just to ensure that it is not only national self-sufficiency, but also regional self-sufficiency. In North Norway, food production is weakened while activities on the military side are increasing. It weakens security in general. So I just want to say that those who in this case raise other issues and almost do not mention agriculture in one word, have not yet realized the seriousness of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e573	It is an important matter that has now been put in place, and I am happy that we finally got it done. It shows up a little bit - those who are on the discussion, and not least those who are not on the discussion. When the left takes the word here today, it's mostly because they're busy with other businesses. It is very good that the left is occupied by small businesses around the country. Why didn't they think about it, why didn't they think a little bit about it when the majority of the population in the previous period asked to look at a system that would challenge higher power prices? Why didn't they think about it when they discussed power exchange and ACER, which are the basis for us getting higher power prices here in Norway? It's kind of hollow when one takes the challenge now and has not been in the forefront, as one could have been, and in addition one challenges this government that one has not delivered. This government has actually worked fast and clearly to do a lot for one of the most important industries, and the industries that depend on an agricultural agreement where prices are fixed. It should only be lacking if the state does not set up when it becomes so unexpected. And the most important thing: it's actually a will run with more exchange and more international prices of power, and then one gets these challenges. That's what the previous government should have seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e582	Yes, the government has done something – very late. But what the government could have done when the high prices came was to introduce a maximum price on electricity for all Norwegian customers. Under the law on price measures, it can be done when socially sound and necessary, and that is at the highest level now, even when prices are set unfairly. To charge a price for electricity per kWh for 2,50 kroner and 2 kroner, when the cost of production is from 10 ears up to perhaps 20 to 25 cents for the most expensive producers, is completely unreasonable. So maximum price could have been introduced by the government, and it has been proposed by the Progress Party – a maximum price of 50 øre per kWh. Knag County talks about farming. It's clear that it's going to be exciting this year. The situation starts to remind me a little bit about the agricultural situation in 1987, which at least there is one person present who can remember, and those who don't remember can read out. It was pretty dramatic. It was almost a change of government, but it prevented us from doing so. So the farm business is going to be exciting. But Knag County also talks about the model, and our model of support for households is that the government pays a certain percentage of what is over 50 cents, while the government model is over 70 cents. The 20 ears in difference are pretty significant for those who pay bills. And yes, there is a support scheme in place, but I saw a bill the other day for a household in a dwelling in Oslo. They paid more than NOK 13 000 for electricity in December – in January it was NOK 10 000, because then the aid was slightly better, but it is still huge in terms of what is normal. Therefore, it would have been most reasonable to introduce a maximum electricity price to Norwegian customers of 50 øre per kWh. Then many of the other arrangements had become redundant, and it had also been a simple administration, unlike all the application-based arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e591	The debate is beginning to enter for landing. There's maybe two things I'm going to remember best. The first is the lack of role the Right has taken in such an important matter for agriculture. They have not taken part in the debate, and they are not even present in the Chamber when we discuss such an important matter. The second is that when many representatives speak in the debate, they talk about things quite different from the needs of agriculture. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party may have a somewhat underlying premise that there is a kind of special regime that is now adopted for agriculture. That premise is absolutely correct. There's a special advantage to agriculture now getting, and it's not random. It is also absolutely necessary. In order to refer to the representative of Knag Fylkesnes earlier in the debate, agriculture differs from all other businesses by the fact that it is a very regulated industry, where individual farmers have very little opportunity to compensate for increased prices of inputs with price increases on their own products. The second point is that the margins for agriculture in general in Norway are very high after eight years with the Right and the Advance Party. It has been crucial that the government of Støre has now adopted a separate electricity package for agriculture. We believe that this is a necessary handshake for farmers around the country. To end with self-sufficiency: we are now in winter, and the part of agriculture that produces greenhouse products now has very high prices. If we had not met them, we would certainly have had quite cash consequences in terms of self-sufficiency of important products for Norway this winter. That is why I am very satisfied and satisfied that the government has in a short time managed to make a good arrangement where there is no maximum for fruit and vegetables. That's good politics, that's absolutely right, and I'm glad it's being adopted in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e600	When one listens to representatives from the Central Party and the Labour Party, one would believe that there is a deep disunity in the Storting and in the Committee attached to what is on the table here today, to confront agriculture with an extraordinary power support package – to an industry that needs it, in the current situation. There's actually no disagreement about, there's something left and, as far as I can register, all the other parties in this room stand behind. What we're struggling to understand is why the position, the Labour Party and the Center Party, are so reprehensible to see that they're the same reasoning as agricultural debt, even for other industries. The representative, Mr Kühlmoen, pointed out that agriculture is in a special situation because it is not possible to charge additional costs through price increases on its own product. That is quite correct, but I believe that the representative of the Labour Party will have to travel a little more to other small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts, for example. jobs in export-right industries, where a competitor competes with enterprises from all over the world, which are in exactly the same situation. They now get heavy extra melts because of the current calculation and can in practice not take this out by price increase on their own product. Then one will be out of competition. I also have to come in as far as the representative Bjørke was in, who now repeated one of the favourite exercises of the Center Party, namely, where were the Left and the other parties when the Stortinge agreed to join the Acer? – understood that ACER is the contributing cause of the situation we now have. I honestly thought that discussion was over. This includes, among other things: The finance minister said earlier, and it has been made clear from the government that there are no decisions in ACER that are the cause of the high current prices we are currently seeing. I should like the Center Party now to do one of two things: either that one ceases to be responsible for Acer in posts in Stortinget, as the representative Bjørke does. If possible, if you think that Acer is the problem, I can tell you that the Central Party is actually in government. Then it's possible to come up with a political initiative there to get out of ACER. Of course, this is the central part of the heart welcome to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e609	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e614	I would expect that there was much more pressure on the agricultural part from the opposition, that they now saw their average to wash off for eight years and come back to the mound by taking seriously the situation of agriculture, but they would rather have the opportunity to talk about completely different things, which I would like to discuss, but then in connection with a matter that concerns it. It's a kind of whatabouttism: But what about it, then? What about that industry? Give me the suggestions, I say. We should discuss this in SV smoothly. It certainly shows that the right-hand side is not in contact with the landscape that agriculture is making, and it disappoints me that one does not take seriously the situation one is in. When it comes to power in general, last year the Stortinget asked the previous government to come up with proposals to meet the crisis we were facing. Nothing happened. It's status, and we're balking with it now and trying to make the best of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e621	It was actually expected that this debate was going to slip out a little, and that it was not going to be just about the matter of debt. It's not strange either -- we're at a time when the electricity prices are extreme, and people are obviously also occupied by the business world, or not just by agriculture and by the greenhouse economy, which this case actually owes. But I want to get a little bit into this with what kind of understanding we have of food production in this country, and how different understandings are in different parties, and how important it will be to how agriculture goes in the future. Here there are representatives of the party who are not so concerned about Norwegian agriculture, but are terribly concerned here today. It is fine, but there is no provision for support schemes to go against exceptional expenditure for a few years, which will be decisive for how agricultural industry is going over time: it is the firm agricultural policy of a party and to the bulk of the population. There's been a cause for concern for eight years before us. We're going to have a different turn on it, and then this comes about providing a power support system for agriculture and the greenhouse industry that is also understood by households – by people, quite simply – around the country. Of course, it is an important part of creating a power support scheme with which agriculture is also happy. It is important that this is a good thank you, for example. that the ceiling for agriculture is raised in relation to the household. But that otherwise the system is understandable and to know that for most people, I just think is positive, also for agriculture. We've been busy about that. The representative, Bjørlo, is concerned that it is strange that we do not understand in the government party and the SV that it is the same reasoning as for other industries as for agriculture when it comes to power support. It is then important to bear in mind that agriculture is the only part of the economy in which a large part is subject to state price regulation, with large-scale treatment in addition, and outside the EEA. I'm absolutely sure the government is making assessments of other industries against international agreements and what's possible there, and that one comes back to it in other contexts. But this is true of all the power support for agriculture and the greenhouse economy. I am particularly pleased that the Storting is now voting for the schemes that have been proposed, so that the government can do what they promised, simply to do as much as they can to make payments during this month. That's good for these industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e634	I don't know if it's right as Jenny Klinge said, that the debate has slipped out a little, but at least it has become a bit of a strange debate, because, after representatives from the government parties, we have used our last posts to tell you that we have not talked about agriculture from the opposition in this debate, that we are not promoting proposals that deal with agriculture. Then I wonder if someone has read the settings we are handling today. The Progress Party is promoting three proposals. One is a proposal that enterprises should be compensated in the same way as households. And then we point specifically to the food industry, which is an industry that is struggling heavily with increased power costs, as well as a number of other increased costs, that they should have a power support system equal to the households. Then we have proposed that the CO 2 tax imposed by the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party on 1 January for the greenhouse industry should at least be deferred. There is no worse time to introduce a CO 2 tax than from the turn of the year — with the high gas prices that this industry is living with. The third is that a compensation scheme should also be put in place for those using gas. And remember, some of the greenhouses that use gas today want to switch to the mains, but are not allowed to do so because the mains power supply is already too heavily charged. The state says no, you can't go over to the mains, you have to be left on gas – and yet you can't compensate for the increases in the gas price that have been in the last few years. There has been a huge increase in the price of gas. And then they say that these proposals are not about agriculture! Where, then, is the debate? The suggestions that Knag County called for, these are the three proposals, but rarely has the term ‘up as a bear down as a skin trap’ been more appropriate. The deadline in the committee has been postponed several times for SV to have time to negotiate with the government, and what is the outcome? That's exactly what the government proposed in its proposition, exactly the same thing. Not a single substantive change was made to SV in negotiation with the government parties. Then you can wonder if it's the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of Finance who's in the system because SV didn't get it done. At least some have stopped it. But then to come and ask for suggestions that have already been made in the setting, it gets too hollow.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e651	Depreciation of electricity prices for agriculture and greenhouses is a necessary crisis response. I will stop at the word crisis. Imports of cloud-high electricity prices will be almost permanent in the future with today's contractual practice for the use of our DC cables abroad. There's a lot of reasons for that, and the Paris agreement, the green one, is one of the important ones. What is central then is that the Storting must take power back over the current policy. That's what we've been going for, that we're going to create security for people, we're going to create predictability. We will therefore have new debates on decisions on different measures. We all need to be aware that as the EEA Agreement is, there is nothing in the way that the Norwegian collapse can write down the price of electricity to all end-users in Norway to a certain level. That's not what's bothering us. As for the agricultural situation, the representative Hagen was concerned about what happened in 1987, and I know it very well. I also have a certain overview of what happened in 1975, with the legendary escalation decision, and I have a certain overview of what is now the industry's profitability. Agricultural operational reviews for 2020 have submitted their report. That's the state's own number. Remuneration for the family's work is approx. 250000 kroner per year at 3 pst. coverage of equity – NOK 250000 per year at 3 pst. coverage of equity, i.e. about half of that averaged in Norway. So we are faced with a huge task of ensuring that, at the time we're here, agriculture will cover its social mission, namely to improve food security. The energy price has led to the price of fertilizers being close to NOK 8 per kg. That means that the fertiliser you use to overfertilise the mating wheat costs approx. 32 kr per kg of nitrogen. People are not sure if it pays to sow wheat and fertiliser wheat, which is a necessity to strengthen food supply. We're facing gigantic problems. These facts we have to take over. I am pleased with what is now being done, but this is just one feature in many respects that is now needed to ensure preparedness in all areas and security and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e662	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e679	The cancellation will receive a clear and clear feedback and status on the various request decisions, and we have received that in this big message. This year's message has been presented at the same time as the state budget, in line with the recommendations of the Harberg Committee, and I think that has made our work incredibly much easier. It has given a better product and a more transparent result. As rapporteur of the case, I have also tried to create a system that reduces the setting and concentrates the setting around what is most important, namely the points where there is disagreement between collapse and government about which decisions can actually be considered followed up. It may not be a perfect structure yet, but I hope and believe that it can form the basis for the committee's work on similar messages in the future. Furthermore, it is very important to stress that if the system we have now set up is going to work, there will be more responsibility on the various expert committees. It is the work of the technical committees that determines whether we are being treated well or treated in an inefficient manner. There have been a very high number of request decisions in recent years, and if I have read correctly, I think that the number of request decisions has doubled for the session we now have to deal with, compared to 2019–2020 – a double. I think that's a record, with over 500 new request decisions. The Ministry notes that there are 374 outstanding decisions that the reporting cannot be considered to be closed. There is a lot to be said about request decisions, and I do so far. It may be in place by means of a request decision. It may be useful as a steering signal from Stortinget to the government at regular intervals, but sometimes I think it is used as a kind of tool to just mark a meaning. I am not quite sure if the request decision is the right way to do it. There are many other ways to make clear political positions in this room. We're going to have in mind that every time we make a request, it will mean a lot more work, a lot of reporting. We know all about that. But perhaps more important, if you ask me, for each request decision, we are at risk of eradicating some of the responsibilities on which our state constitution is based, the responsibility between collapse and government, which is based on us controlling the government – not instructing the government. I love the word ‘moderation’, and I hope that from this page we can also show some moderation in the use of the request decision in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e694	The size recorded in the previous session in the number of request decisions, and over time both the position and the opposition in Stortinget have used the request decision as a governance tool to the government. In winter, the Committee has addressed the question of the role of the request decisions twice. One time is in the Inner East. 140 S for 2021-2022, where the question was whether former Councillor Knut Arild Hareide had violated the Liability Act by not implementing a request decision. The other one is Innst. 143 S for 2021-2022, where the Committee examined several of the chapters of the report of the Harberg Committee. In both of these cases, the broad majority of the Committee found that the request decisions are politically binding but not legally binding. Since a government is always dependent on Stortingen's confidence, there is a clear expectation that the government will meet requests from the majority of the population. However, as policymakers, it is important to remember and have an understanding of the constitutional role that exists between the administration and the Storing. There are many examples on the government side of the report that the government side has assessed different considerations. When a request decision is promoted, the heading is that the Grand Duchy has adopted one or the other. It creates expectations that may not always correspond to the constitutional role of the request decisions. Because when we say and adopt something, but it can't be quite like that, it can weaken our confidence here at Stortinget. When we, as big politicians, talk about maintaining trust, we must also believe that a request decision is a request and not an order. If the Storting really wants to put power behind its requirements, we can resort to even stronger instruments, such as law and budgetary decisions. This is our strongest control tool. When we choose not to use these, but rather tend to ask the government, it is a choice we make. Of course, we have a clear expectation that requests decisions will be followed up, but we also give the government an important role in assessing the follow-up. I would like to add that if the government comes to the conclusion that they do not want to follow up a request decision for any other reason, or cannot follow up a request decision, the government should be open about that. Instead, they should make a proposal to repeal a decision rather than to leave the proposal pending.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e709	The government's call decision is central to the government's control between the accumulation and the government. They give instructions from Parliament's plenary. A call-in decision follows a clear expectation that the government will implement the call-in as a multiplicity in Stortinget is at the back. The Harberg Committee proposed that the annual report of the Government on the follow-up to the invitation replies be prepared at the same time as the draft budget. The purpose was to avoid duplication of work. The government that has resigned has sent this invitation message along with the budget. This is how the message was processed in the Storing Room before the Control Committee's configuration of the Harberg selection was handled in the Storing Room. The message shows that there are important welcome decisions from the previous government that the new one has to follow up. The government's task is to activate what is written in the text of the invitation decisions. One example that we are not satisfied with is the decision of February 25, 2021. Then Stortinget asked the government to ‘reopen the arrests where the closures of the police reform have led to a disproportionate amount of time being spent by the police today on the transport of prisoners’. In this message the government will not write if any arrests have been reopened. Furthermore, the notification does not show whether there are arrests covered by the wording of the Decision, that ‘decompositions under the police reform have led to a disproportionate amount of time being spent by the police today on the transport of prisoners’. The decision has not been followed up. If the wording of the decision is that Stortinget asks for a case to be submitted, the decision is followed up when the matter is brought before the Stortinget. One example of this failure is the decision of March 2021, following the management of the review committee's report after the mispractice of the referendum. Here the Committee asked the government to come back with a final clarification of the relationship between the people's protection laws and the EU's social security regulation. This does not mean that the government will write a proposal to that effect. The government must submit to the Storting before the follow-up to the decision can be terminated. If the government does not want to follow a request decision, the report should not be terminated. The Government shall then submit proposals to repeal the Decision. Following the decision on national emergency stocks for cereals in 2018, the Solberg Government did not wish to put it into operation. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs pointed out in a statement last year that the government had to make a proposal to repeal the decision. The repeal decision was presented in the autumn budget proposal, so that the decision no longer applies. While we've been handling this crash message, some appeal decisions from the past have been followed up by the new government. They can now be terminated. An example of this is the call for an expert selection to go through Norwegian Child Protection. Here the new government has already extended the mandate of the Solberg government to the selection, and so the work is now a good follow-up to the call decision. It's a good thing that the new government knows what it means to make the announcements from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e724	The chairperson of the Committee, Peter Frölich, concerned the number of requests and considered that there had been too many. There might be different opinions about that. That's because what's really going on in the Storting is a persistent election struggle, it's showing the difference between parties and getting its own policy as opposed to the policies of other competing parties. When making proposals for applications – it is first a proposal, not everyone is adopted, there are far more people who are being promoted and who are not being adopted than are being adopted – it has the political effect of somehow forcing all parties in the Grand Duchy to take a clear decision on a political issue and thus clarify to the electorate what the various parties stand for. In this way, the request decision has a function to provide better information to the electorate. Then it is clear – and I agree with Peter Frülich – that we must be aware that these request decisions entail work on follow-up in the departments, and then we seize working time. We should all be aware of this when we make proposals for applications, that if they are adopted, they will lead to work for departments and perhaps for others. At the same time, it should be the Stortinget that is the top governing body in Norway, and then the request decision is the way to direct the government in important directions, but perhaps also in some detail. This will also address the impact and importance of the request decision, which the representative Jaffery had in mind, to which we come back when we are going to discuss the follow-up of the Harberg Committee's assessment of the request decision. There is the Progress Party and I have come to the conclusion that they should be legally binding, while others believe that they should not be legally binding, which means that a government does not really have to take them so seriously, especially if a government is certain that it is not possible to bring together a majority behind a motion of censure. The current government, with its understanding of SV, has a relative certainty that the chance of SV voting for a mistrust proposal is relatively low at the moment. If we have a majority government, it is quite clear that that government does not have to take account of the Grand Duchy's request decision, because then, as was said in the old days, there is a majority in the Chamber, the hen-elected parliamentarianism. We're going to get back to this. Although we have liberal speaking time this time, the majority say when we're going to discuss the important constitutional principles, that then we're going to crush those who mean something other than ourselves. But we're going to do that later. So it is good that we now – instead of two completely separate feedbacks on the request decision – get one feedback, as the Harberg Committee agreed. That's a reasonable thing. There are two areas relating to these request decisions I would like to add a few words to. One is to ensure the production of medicinal products also in Norway. Several request decisions have been adopted to establish cooperation and agreements with Norwegian production environments to ensure national production. There are slightly different views in the committee. I am a member of the majority, who says that the previous government did not properly follow up on this. The decisions that apply then remain standing, and the new government has to deal with them. I guess there's some of them that might also be old decisions. This means that in a year's time, when we receive a new feedback on the request decision, it is not useful for the current government to show that the previous one did not implement it. Now it's the government that's going to implement these decisions, so hopefully next year we'll be able to wait for the decisions because they're followed up by the government. I believe that ensuring — for reasons of preparedness — the production of important medicinal products in Norway is something the pandemic has taught us all. So here I hope the government will actively follow this up. I now mentioned that it could be an old decision. I would like to refer to the setting on page 7 about information about the owners of the limited liability company. There is a decision, 496 of 16 June 2014. It's been seven years. The Joint Committees are required to follow up this Decision, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a public solution with information on shareholders that ensures greater transparency, with establishment during 2015.’ Of course, it is impossible for the current government to implement this decision to the point and point, because 2015 has passed. It was the previous government that was going to do it. I point out that there have been relatively extensive writings about this, especially in today's business, that there are companies in Norway that have been impossible to find out who really owns, and who actually controls. That's exactly what this proposal is based on, that we need to know who are the owners of businesses in Norway. This has been updated through the extensive reports that have been in today's business. There are also regulations for the applicable legislation. There is an overall committee which believes that the regulation must be put in place so that the amending law can enter into force. On this basis, the Committee considers that the request decision cannot be queried and points out that the use of time is unfortunate. Then I will be allowed to express a hope that the sitting government is somewhat more eager to implement this decision than the previous government has been, and that during the spring or autumn we can get a pass, so that this decision can be postponed. It must be that who owns holdings in Norway should be known. There should be no concealment through many different structures and ownership abroad, in different foreign countries that have different legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e750	On page 5 of the setting, it says about the Nav legal scandal under the heading ‘Examining Committee report, dealing with past cases. Decision 773, 23 March 2021’. It's an incredibly important thing that affects thousands of people. I am pleased that a joint committee points out what is going on, that the Council of State sent out a letter of consultation on 25 June in 2021, with a deadline of 25 October, to amend the requirement for residence requirements of the People's Rights Act. In the case of the decision, that decision has not been followed up and therefore there is an observation on that point. The Nav legal scandal is extremely serious, and it was about the relationship between the EEA Agreement and Norwegian law. There were major errors that affected many, and it has been decided in recent times that the problem started as early as 1 January 1994. I.e., it is very unwieldy and difficult to get an overview of those affected. That is why I would just like to say that those affected by the Nav legal scandal must be reviled. It's a lot of work, where the victims have to get better follow-up than is the case today, so that we can follow up all the necessary, clear statements that were given by this pulpit in connection with the case appearing in its time. Furthermore, it is quite obvious that the Nav legal scandal must be followed up with a review of Nav's organisation. This government focuses on a trust reform, i.e. that the first line in Nav is given increased authority and responsibility. In particular, it is important with regard to redundancy payments, which was a central system in the context of the Nav legal scandal. I would just like to end by referring to what the Council of State Tajik said in the daily newspaper yesterday, on 14 February: "We are now working on a legislative proposal to follow up the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment." It is very important that that proposition comes to Stortinget as quickly as possible, so that we get a clear law, and so that there should be no doubt about what is the legal basis for future cases in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e763	When we look at the number of requests that have not been followed up after the examination of the technical committees, I have to say that, at least for some committees, it is alarmingly high numbers. The example pointed out by the Monitoring Committee with the Education Committee, which reports that in the 2020-2021 session the government followed only 19 out of 69 requests, illustrates this well. Maybe it's going to be possible to group these foregleams -- or what we're going to call them -- into two. One is that there seems to be a good deal of request decisions that can be said to boil away in the cabbage, and that for various reasons are never followed up. Then there are also some where the way of action, at least, reminds us of political obstruction. I think that the lack of implementation of the Storting's clear decision on early ultrasound and NIPT are examples of that. We also see examples of where there is really no room to misunderstand the Storting's intention, yet a request decision by the Department is considered to be being queried using something that is qualitatively different from what the Storting has asked for. An example of this is the Storting’s decision on the production capacity of critical medical devices, where the government’s response was to point to storage capacity, which is clearly different. I say this because I think we are now in a situation with a new government, with new opportunities to take the Storting's request decisions more seriously and follow them up in a more thorough way than what I think we have now been documented has been the standard in recent years. I hope the government will take that call.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e772	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e789	A few weeks ago, I visited the Frankmotune in Folldal, a fantastic place that offers daily treatment in common for adults with severe drug dependence, and that with close proximity to animals and nature. There I was so lucky to talk to several of the residents. The job the employees at Frankmo do every day means everything to them. Good, specialised, decentralised communities are examples of important institutions in the field of drugs and psychiatry. The report by Stortinget today deals with the seventh and last of all with the residents of Frankmo and other important health services in the field of drugs and psychiatry. It's about giving everyone a good health offer. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for the job with the report, where the aim of the study has been to assess whether people with mental health disorders have equivalent access to good quality mental health services and how state instruments are designed to support the work of specialist health services and municipalities. Because there are many things to address and several aspects of this matter that deserve great attention. I therefore hope that the subsequent debate will shed light on several of the important points in the Riksrevision report. It deserves it, and I'm choosing to highlight some of the points now. After all, it is a pleasure to be the case rapporteur on such an important matter, where the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs agrees mostly, with the exception of a few specific comments. We all agree that mental distress and suffering are one of the major societal and health challenges we face in Norway. For people with mental health disorders, it is essential to get help where they are, whether they are at school, at work, at home, etc. It's unfortunately just to refer to tragic isolated events in society in the last year. These events show the severity of mental health disorders and underline the importance of a health service that captures citizens with challenges and has sufficient competence and resources to follow up each one. In addition, we are now on our way out of a pandemic – knock on the table, president – a pandemic that has been very demanding for many. In this context, special attention needs to be paid to children and the mental health of young people. Because we still have a way to go. It is a unanimous committee which stands behind and refers to the Riksrevision's findings and criticism. It is serious that many with mental distress and suffering do not get help when they need it, and that this varies depending on where you come from in the country. It is serious that many municipalities do not have a good enough treatment for young people with mental and drug problems. It is serious that many outpatient clinics in the field of mental health protection do not have sufficient framework conditions to provide good treatment to young people with mental and drug problems, and that more do not receive treatment recommended by the Health Directorate. At the same time, it is highly critical that mental health protection is not a priority over somatic matters, that is, the golden rule. Follow-up and control signal from the department has not been good enough. These are the conclusions of the National Audit Office. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs believes it is important to listen to the findings and work to improve the provision of assistance to all those in need. The keywords are both low-threshold mental health care and obliging quality reform and escalation in mental health protection. The Committee considers that it is too poor that one in 10 municipalities does not provide any treatment for children and young people with mental disorders beyond the care provided by their prescribers. It is too bad that three out of ten municipalities do not work out for adults with mental disorders, who may also have concomitant drug problems. Nor is it good that three out of four health businesses failed to meet the waiting time requirement for children and young people. The report notes that there are wide variations between healthcare companies in the duration of a patient’s waiting for treatment. Depending on where you live, you risk waiting 28 days or 72 days. If you are in a situation where you need help, you would prefer to have help yesterday, not in 72 days. In the past, a cross-political collapse has indicated that it is essential to ensure good mental health care for the whole population. For this reason, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has made such a clear statement. Here we expect the government to give thanks, and I am sure that Minister of Health and Care will do so. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation in this extremely important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e812	It can't be that if you break a leg, you get help right away, but if the days are filled with dark and evil thoughts, or you become addicted to intoxication, you don't get the help you need. Patients should have the same good offer wherever they live in the country, and when the National Audit Office points out that it is not, it is serious. There are several things going on to enable municipalities to take their share of the responsibility that we have good health care throughout the country. The local economy has been strengthened, earmarked grants have been used, legislation has been made clear, and a new guide is coming. From 2016 to 2020, there are almost 2,600 new annual works in municipal mental health and drug treatment. All municipalities should have their own psychologist, and by the end of 2019 had 94 pst. by the municipalities. That's good, but we have to keep up the pressure to make sure that everyone gets the healthcare they need, no matter where they live in the country, and even when there are mental disorders they need help with. When three out of four health professionals do not meet the waiting time requirement for children and young people and two of them do not meet the requirement for adults, that is not good enough. When one in 10 municipalities does not provide any treatment for children and young people with mental health problems in addition to the treatment they can provide, that is not good enough. Half of the municipalities do not have outreach services for children and young people with mental illness. Almost 30 pst. of the municipalities do not have adult outreach services. It shows us that both big business, government, health companies and municipalities have a job to do. When we're in a health queue, we have our lives waiting, we don't work like we do. It's not that it's changing if there's mental illness or we're struggling with it. Maybe it's all the more difficult – because it doesn't seem. We don't have crutches that make you see why we can't follow the kids on football training or we're not at work. Therefore, shorter health cows were one of the most important things for the Right when we went into government offices in 2013, and waiting times have decreased. From 2013 to 2020, mental health waiting times have decreased by nine days for children and young people, 10 days for adults. But of course we're not satisfied, and the numbers that come out are not good. In any case, the goal must be to reduce waiting times even further. The golden rule, that the growth in mental health and alcohol should be greater than in somatics, would contribute to that. We haven't achieved the objectives of mental health, but we've reached them for drugs. Now the golden rule is completely removed as a goal, and I ask myself what the stand would have been like without that goal, without that expectation, and what it will do with the priorities of healthcare companies in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e827	In the management of this report, we have to face up to the fact that there is a problem that many people have tried to solve before us. We have a wish that mental and physical health should be equal, and that people with mental health disorders should receive help where they are. The National Auditor has shown us that there is a long way to get there. In 2009, the Control and Constitutional Committee handled a report that told much of the same thing as it did. Then, as a matter of fact, there were considerable differences between health regions in their supply to adults with mental problems. Then – as it is now – the Committee was occupied by an equivalent supply of mental health protection, regardless of each cage. This report also shows that many of the young people who need psychiatry the most do not have a supply to meet their needs. Many young people with mental and drug problems have been shown to treat adults. Many of those who work in childhood and youth psychiatry are unable to develop their profession. Work on subjects is necessary if we are to have a well-specialised supply for young people with mental and drug problems. The best knowledge of how to recover from mental illness is not useful when patients arrive. The state governs the quality of hospitals without asking if handling makes people healthy. Outpatient clinics experience that waiting times and ignition requirements are more important than the effects of supply. Then we have to ask whether this is heading towards the right goal. Furthermore, there is criticism that the golden rule is gone. Then you have to look at what the Riksrevision actually says about the golden rule. One says that regional health professionals were unable to achieve the six-year target. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has not used any other means than to follow up the achievement of the objectives through the annual reporting by the enterprises and the enterprise meeting between the department and the enterprises. Then you might ask yourself, is there so much help in this rule? If mental and physical health are to be assimilated, we must maintain that psychiatry is to provide an equivalent supply to those who need it and an offer that makes people healthy. It is in my opinion to steer towards health policy objectives. Therefore, I am pleased that the new government has now reduced a selection to assess how best to ensure the political direction of hospitals towards health policy objectives. This report has to be in the bottom when the selection is going to look for the right solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e842	I listened with great interest to Nils T. Bjørke's posts, and for once I think I can join most of what he said. That's why it's going to be very exciting when we see the results of all the new government going to fix – the things that have been wrong in about a year. It will also be exciting to see the sample report mentioned by Bjørke. When the Storting has expressed the same thing over six years, without anything happening, then soon also the Storting must start to think about whether we are going to use other instruments here in the Storing to implement what we want. It's a problem we're going to get back to in a different context. Let me refer you a little bit from the setting, page 13, at the bottom right: ‘The Committee endorses the Riksrevision’s assessment that it is highly critical that the Ministry has not used additional instruments when regional health businesses have not been able to achieve the six-year objective.’ So it says "strongly critical". If there is no improvement in a year or two, it will probably be time that there are several people talking about a so-called "crime decision" against the sitting and responsible state council, if they have not implemented what has been said by the Storting largely unanimously over six years. It also says on page 14: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right, emphasises that it is highly critical that the Ministry has not used additional instruments in the management of the Golden Rule when the assumptions of the Storting have been so clear and health businesses have not been able to achieve the objectives.’ Had this happened to – let's say – private companies with a profit motive, which are some villains in the opinion of someone here in this Chamber, they had started talking about the prosecution authority and criminal reactions to those responsible for not following general instructions. There is also a problem that should eventually come up for discussion. Then I would like to thank the National Audit Board for being very concrete and clear in its conclusions, and I hope that the Council of State will comment on these conclusions, which are on page 15 in the vote, where it says: ‘The Committee notes that the National Audit Office considers that the Ministry of Health and Welfare should consider’. I hope the Council of State will confirm that it will assess the Ministry. [[...]] The same applies to: ‘The Committee notes that the Ministry of Health and Welfare is of the opinion of the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Health and Welfare must ensure that’ – and then there are five indents. I hope the Council of State will confirm that she will ensure that these things are carried out. The same applies when it says: ‘The Committee notes that the Riksrevision believes that the Ministry of Health and Welfare should’ – and there are also a number of indents here. It also says, after all these indents: ‘The Committee endorses the recommendations and calls on the National Audit Board to give priority to monitoring the development of a better mental health provision, in particular for children and young people.’ Then it's important that this is really the same as a unanimous decision on big business. Although it is not formally contested and a decision, there is a unanimous committee that supports these recommendations, and then it is clear that this should be taken very seriously by the Council of State. So finally, when it's pointed out from the National Audit Office and several speakers that there's different follow-up in the municipal area of psychiatry, that's of course a thing, because it's municipal, and that's one of the issues you should be interested in. If growth and government are to have control of the entire psychiatric health service, it should perhaps be government-led and not delegated to different municipalities, which then also have a larger funding problem. Storing and government can print out a lot of taxes and other things to save money to get enough money, while a municipality's ability to prioritize everything is much, much weaker. That is why the Progress Party has been committed to the overall governance, organisation and funding of health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e885	There is a reason why we stand here year after year, with changing red and blue governments – and no matter how good and strong intentions we have, we cannot achieve the goals of mental health. There is a reason why mental health and chronic disorders are systematically under-prioritised in our healthcare system. It's not a question of intentions. I have full confidence that both the Health Minister and the former Health Ministers have really had this issue at the top of the block for all the years that you have had to deal with the golden rule. I believe that the main reason here is structural, systematic and not least ideological. The main dividing line in Norwegian health policy today does not go between red and blue. We can turn up and down privatisation as much as we want – that's not what's going to solve the mental health challenges. The main dividing line in Norwegian health policy today goes between green and gray, and unfortunately we have become stuck with a grey ideological anchoring of our health policy today. It is a system in which health services prioritise things that can be measured and managed according to mechanistic, business-economic efficiency principles that do not work in practice, in a system that actually relies on people with expertise to help people with needs. When you listen to the speeches of several speakers on the platform today, you understand that they are deeply aware of this issue. Several of the interventions today could be interpreted as supporting speech for a green health policy, and the government platform also has many good, promising formulations. But the question is, What do we want to see in practice by government action? To move from the model we have today – with business thinking, with business budget thinking, with cost optimisation and efficiency – to a system based on giving the professionals time and confidence back, and that we provide the solutions to find space that we know is needed, requires incredibly much targeted action over time and a change in the thinking and ideology of our entire healthcare system. It is the challenges of today's government and the Minister of Health, and I wish them every success in taking those challenges seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e900	The National Audit Office’s review of mental health services points to a number of areas where there is a need for improvement. The report underlines the seriousness and need for change and a new course. The study shows that access to healthcare is different both in municipalities and in specialist health services, and that patients are at risk of not getting help when they need it. Work on increasing and using knowledge about the treatment of mental disorders is not good enough. Quality improvements are not well worked out and many do not ensure sufficient user involvement and related involvement in services. Equivalent health and care services are an important objective of this government, and mental health is a field of activity. We are concerned that help should be available and of good quality, no matter where you live, or where you are in life. In the Hurdal platform, we have announced that we are going to create a stepping-up plan for mental health with earmarked funds and emphasis on municipal services. It shall ensure increased quality and capacity of specialist health services and strengthen health stations and school health services. Work on the phasing-in plan shall begin rapidly. Findings and recommendations from the National Audit Office report are useful in this work. The report also identifies challenges related to the provision of treatment to children and young people. Young people with concomitant mental and drug problems are particularly vulnerable. It is important to me that children and young people receive special attention in the forthcoming escalation plan. We need to hear their voices and adapt their services so that they hit as they should. I can mention that it is working on developing and testing community-based lowthreshold treatment services for children and young people with mental distress and onset of drug problems, and we are trying out out outpatient treatment, such as the FACT young team. We are also preparing for a prevention and treatment reform in the drugs field, and we are preparing a national programme for drug prevention among children and young people. As part of the reform work, the Directorate-General for Health will examine how to provide drug treatment for children and young people and propose concrete ways to strengthen the service. In addition, health regions have been given the task of strengthening mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. I record that the Riksrevision criticises the previous government for not having complied with its golden priority rule. Our government does not want to continue this rule, but instead introduces a clearer governance target to increase the level of activity in mental health protection. We also introduce a requirement to increase daily treatment activity. The government maintains a waiting period for mental health protection and drug treatment because these patients have a particular need for prompt help. We also have a goal that everyone who is referred to should be offered an assessment interview. We begin where we believe the need is greatest, in mental health protection for children and young people. The report from the National Audit Office is an important basis of knowledge, and I take it with me when the government is now assessing improvements and further development of the offer to people with mental health challenges and drug problems. We have made demands in the business meeting that regional health companies follow up on the report. The report is also presented in the letter of award to the state administrators and in the grant to the various competence centres in the field. Governments will follow up on the establishment and the decision and treatment of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e923	The public debate on mental health has been major in recent years, and for many it was the most important thing in last year's elections. One of the reasons for this is that many people experience that the reduction of specialised services and the transfer of responsibility to municipalities has gone too far. The number of entries has increased, while the downtime has been. Many end up as turning door spaces and meeting several different handlers in a fragmented system. It affects the sickest, and it makes people with mild suffering sicker. Being rejected by those who are going to help us can also make us sicker. The challenges are complex and complex, and they were among other things. the backstop of last year’s drug reform, without measures to escalate treatment supply or fresh resources. Before the weekend I had a conversation with a colleague here at the house, where we among other things. Talk about missing my former job as an infirmary in mental health. I miss my colleagues there, my deaf colleagues, and the patients. As a nurse, one can make a difference for the patients there and then, but that's right here in this room I can make the biggest difference. The report to the Riksrevision is a comprehensive overall assessment showing that the supply has not been good enough. The summary is that mental health protection is not a priority in line with policy objectives, and there is a lack of knowledge about the effectiveness of treatment. Where there is a knowledge of effects, they are not used, and the way you have managed to follow them has not captured them. We don't want our email address to decide what help we get, or whether we get help at all. Through various changes, the Control and Constitutional Committee and the Minister for Health propose to follow up healthcare professionals in a much better way than the previous one. I will not answer on behalf of her, but I know that the leaders have already been given more leadership that they should give priority to mental health. If we are to have a greater commitment to mental health, we need a health minister who has seen greater demands on our hospitals. We've got that now. As a follow-up to the particular pandemic, but also to all the aspects described in the report, a special effort is needed for the mental health of children and young people. The central part of the Labour Party government will rectify unworthy situations and have thereby strengthened its efforts to address children and young people in the state budget of the year. Compared to 2021, we have 55.5 million. kr for setting up and evaluating the FACT young teams, which are interdisciplinary and outreach teams targeting children and young people with long-standing and complex needs, and overall, the Centre Party – Labour Party government has allowed a strengthening of 250 million. Dr to work on the mental health of children and young people in 2022. In addition, the government has allowed an increase of 40 million. kr to the ACT and FACT teams for adults. The government has also increased the rights of municipalities and county councils and increased the basic funding of hospitals to facilitate increased treatment in mental health and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. In the health policy package, mental health was a priority, both low-threshold and targeted students in particular. I can talk me hot about what we have done since the Center Party and the Labour Party joined the government in October. What's my point is that the Center Party-Work Party government is going to straighten out in unworthy circumstances, and this is just the beginning. We have committed ourselves to an escalation plan for mental health and a reform of the care system. The work is already in progress, and I look forward to better assistance, so that we can correct the criticism of the Riksrevision against the previous government. It will provide a worthy and professional defence of health for, among other things. My patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e942	It's said that there's not all gold shining, and that's also true of the golden rule that the right government introduced. Not in one of its eight years did the Right manage to deliver on its own rule. The representative, Bruflot, spent a lot of his time talking about how the municipalities have to take a greater responsibility. Now we know that mental health is an interaction between specialist health services and community health services. We also know that the previous government employed municipal psychologists. Many of us have been travelling, and it is not that one municipal psychologist in a single municipality will help people with complex problems if the rest of the health service is not well developed. You need more than a community psychologist to solve the challenges we face in society. It was a wise lady who said that everything is related to everything, and then it is clear that strengthening the municipal economy and allocations to the municipalities so that they can actually exercise better care for those who need it the most is important. This government has given priority to that. I hear many in the debate describe the problems, but they do not come up with any solutions. This has been done by the Central Party and the Workers' Party in the government. My co-representative Klungland referred to several of the appropriations entered in the State budget. There has also been a strengthening of hospitals. The Council of State has also said that she has started work on the escalation plan in the field of mental health. I think all of these things aren't just describing the problem, they're actually taking care of it. It is clear that our decision-makers are also important, because when you start to experience that you are struggling with your mental health – many people do, but luckily, most people only experience moderate problems through their lives – it is often the decision to go to first. If you don't have a regular to go to, who's going to refer another to the specialist health service? The piece of equipment is also important to look at, and this government has announced that you should. This is an important matter for many parties – perhaps for all parties, I would say – but then it is important to participate in lifting where it actually works. There are many good examples in which the money that has come from the state has been used to finance the offer. Of course, I can boast of my own municipality, Bergen, where low-threshold services have been set up in Child and Family Services. During the pandemic, rapid mental health care and evening care were established. It is not that Kommune-Norge does not do his job, but it must be an interaction and a consistently good offer in the services. If your head doesn't talk to your arm, this won't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e957	I have to take the floor just so it won't hang on again a misunderstanding that I think could accidentally arise after Hagen's remarks, where he referred to a comment that says that the majority of the committee, 'all except the members of the Right', criticized that no further action had been put in place regarding the governance of the Golden Rule. That's right, and that's because the Right has its own note on the page before, on page 13, where we first remind ourselves that the government of Solberg reintroduced the golden rule in 2014, and that it was challenging because it was so that some health care companies achieved the right result one year, but not necessarily the next year, so there was no stability in it. So it went a little bit back and forth between health businesses who achieved the result and not, and it's a little demanding, because then it's not so uniform how to make it work. I am pleased that the Committee as a whole has a great deal of attention to this, and will only end by pointing out that everyone, i.e. a unanimous committee, joins in the Riksrevision's findings and criticisms, and also the Riksrevision's recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e964	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e982	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e989	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the examination of the proposal for a representative to renegotiate the governance agreement between the State and Enova. I would also like to thank you for all the hearings. For them, the message is that there is an urgent need to put in place a comprehensive policy and stronger instruments to extract the potential for energy saving in buildings. Energy efficiency has been on the agenda repeatedly in this room. The goal of 10 TWh energy saving was first introduced in the energy notification process in June 2016. Five years have passed without having been followed up, either in the form of an action plan for energy efficiency improvement or through proposals for concrete instruments to achieve the target of 10 TWh energy saving in buildings. Enova and the Climate and Energy Fund are an important tool for achieving Norway’s climate commitments and will contribute to the transition to the low-carbon society. By 2030 55 pst. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are cut to 1990 levels. In order to cope with this, Norway needs to produce more power and build better transmission systems as a prerequisite for creating new green industries and electrifying society. This is going to happen at the same time as we're in a power crisis. It is therefore necessary to develop and strengthen Enova. I would like to quote, among other things: The House owners, in letter to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘Supporting the introduction of new technologies is important, but not only enough to achieve our objectives of climate change and energy saving.’ I am very pleased that the government is now going to follow up the Storting decision by drawing up a plan with a set of measures to reduce energy use in construction by at least 10 TWh in 2030 and to increase electricity production in construction, and that the responsibility for an increase in measures with well-known and tried and tested technology and own electricity production in households is to be assessed transferred to the Husbank within the revised state budget for 2022. Now it's also important that Enova use the 300 million frame. kr to households as a result of the Enova agreement, in addition to the 100 million. kr, which reached an agreement between the Government Parties and the Socialist Left Party, and not least that the work on an additional measure in the households of the State budget for 2023 is explained. I will then, on behalf of the Committee, promote the recommendation of the Committee, of the Labour Party, of the Right, of the Progress Party, of the Centre, of the Socialist Left Party, of the Christian People's Party, of the Left and of the Green Party, and recommend that the proposal of the representative of the Grand Representative, Sofie Marhaug, to renegotiate the governance agreement with Enova, is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1009	For the sake of order, the President draws attention to the fact that it is not necessary to take up the Committee's position, since it is to be considered as taken up at the time of the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1014	In just under eight years, we're going to cut huge amounts of CO 2 emissions. It will require tough priorities. Enova is an important tool if we are to be able to achieve these goals. It has been absolutely essential that the Solberg government has strengthened Enova as significantly as we have done in recent years, and it is right that it is important that Enova be identified as a climate tool in the future. Enova has made it possible for the world's cleanest aluminiumworks in Karmøy, the largest biogas plant in Northern Europe in Forest, the world's largest liquid sea wind farm and emission-free solutions in ferry and heavy transport. Recently, it was granted over 1 billion. kr for hydrogen projects – an important energy carrier that can help cut emissions where no other commercially available solutions are currently available. In other words, Enova contributes with the necessary risk-absorbing that can in the long term lead to lower costs and major advances in technology, and it also benefits households and people. At the same time, there is no doubt that there is a close link between cutting CO 2 emissions and having an efficient energy system, and we have high ambitions for energy efficiency improvement in existing and new buildings. The cheapest current is the one people don't have to use. The right is also crystal clear that the Enova premium on the network tariff will benefit people and households. That is one of the reasons why the Solberg government in the new governance agreement increased the pot of Enova to provide measures for households and consumers to a minimum of 300 million. kr. When Enova was unable to pay that whole amount last year, it means two things: one is that Enova has to set up new, good programmes aimed at households and consumers, and the other is that the government has to follow up next year to ensure that this is met as a requirement in the governance agreement. I think it's important, anyway, that we politicians are a little deterred from detailing what additional measures Enova is going to grant money to. If Enova e.g. having to support what is profitable energy measures in a functioning market, this may also lead suppliers of these measures to set an artificially high price. Then it becomes more expensive for everyone, and perhaps especially for those consumers who are not supported by Enova. This also means that in the years to come, there may be a need for new support schemes with more social profile and facilities. For us, it is important that such possible support schemes trigger energy efficiency measures that would not otherwise arise in the market. If we are to ensure a reasonable flow for people in the years to come, the most important thing is that we build more renewable energy. But we must also succeed in improving energy efficiency, especially in buildings, and then we must have good arrangements for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1033	For those of us who grew up in the 1980s and 1990s, there was an extra word of honour, and the high electricity prices of winter have fortunately created a new focus on an increase, or energy savings. There is no doubt that Norway has slept for a long time in the hour, and we have wasted the flow – we must be allowed to say that in the light of the after-hour clock. We're not going that far above the Swedish border until we see that there's a completely different attitude to how we use power. Good access to clean and cheap power is no excuse to waste electricity. Enova is a tool among several to reduce waste with electricity and to stimulate power-efficient measures both in households and in business. But Enova also has some other purposes. There shall also be an important climate and industrial policy instrument and contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by Norway, and there is no contradiction between these objectives. For the current year, government parties and SV strengthened the support to Enova significantly, precisely to strengthen the role of the state in the transition to a more climate-friendly society. Enova is the country’s tool to contribute to risk-absorption and stimulate technological development by supporting a variety of measures – measures ranging from strengthening the infrastructure of zero-emission vehicles for hydrogen, green shipping and phase-out of gas and oil as an energy source in industry, for which we have many examples. The latter is often associated with high risks to business, as initial costs are often high and uncertain. Enova, as a partner, may contribute to the implementation of projects that would otherwise not have been implemented and ensure that new technologies are introduced and made visible. Those who are now trying to make it like Enova is no longer contributing to energy efficiency in households are wrong. Four hundred million. kr was set aside for that purpose. A total of 750 million. kr is part of the package of government parties and SV in the budget. These funds will be used for emissions reduction, technology development and business conversion and for the deployment of high-speed charging infrastructure for electric vehicles. In addition, in the first quarter, Enova is now launching support for new measures for households and consumers. Technological development and early market introduction are the leading drivers of measures that will embrace wider than simply energy efficiency improvement. The size has determined that the use of energy in buildings will be reduced by 10 TWh by 2030, and then strong instruments will be needed. The government will ensure that Enova is part of that instrument in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1046	This winter the electricity prices have been sky-high, and according to Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, we have to charge ourselves on still high electricity bills. A tool to both reduce bills and save climate and nature for waste streams is energy efficiency improvement, and that's all reason to believe that people want to save on electricity. It often costs to reinsulate, upgrade or install e.g. heat pumps or solar panels on the roof. Then Enova is still little help, for there is the opposite logic of what we find in the Gospel of Luke: It is easier for a camel to go through a loop than for a poor one to enter the kingdom of Enova! It is well documented that Enova has not refunded any charges on the network lease to go to the households. This is serious because it weakens confidence in the state's own energy efficiency improvement tool. The solar support schemes usually require an equity of several hundred thousand dollars, even with the government’s reinforcement – or as one of the committee members, Mani Hussaini, said in an interview about their own chances: "It's very expensive! The price came to 240 000 to put 36 panels on the roof. That's money I don't have." In the budgetary agreement with SV, it has been agreed to use the House Bank instead of Enova to reach ordinary households. That's interesting, but that kind of conversion takes time. We in Red think it's strange that Enova should continue as before, following the same principles as before. Red had hoped that a new government would mean a new policy. I would like to remind the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV that by the spring of 2021 they have made proposals and comments on changing the governance agreement with Enova and stressed that energy efficiency improvement should be a central part of the mandate. As the same representative, Hussaini, underlined in the interview already mentioned: «The previous government was concerned that Enova would only invest in completely new technology. There we disagree. All electricity customers pay a fee to Enova, and we believe that it must benefit households. I wish that people either got support or reasonable loans to re-insulate old houses and switch windows, that's really what really monks and saves energy." I fully agree with the representative of Hussaini in this description. Today, Hussaini and other red-green representatives have the opportunity to support the Redt's proposal to renegotiate the governance agreement with Enova, as they suggested by the spring of 2021 at the latest, so that it will be an institution to re-establish energy efficiency for people with common and bad advice. With this, Red's proposal is being promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1067	Then the representative Sofie Marhaug brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1072	Energy efficiency is one of the most important things we can do to save nature from unnecessary interference and the climate for large emissions leading to climate crisis. In addition, it will provide consumers with permanent protection against high electricity prices. In recent years, people have given far more support to Enova than Enova has given back to consumers. We have to change that. For this reason, SV had a say in the budget negotiations to increase the support given to households by Enova in the coming year. We also need to look, as the agreement with the government parties shows, at how we organize this work best in the future. We believe that giving responsibility for energy efficiency in households to the House Bank is a much better solution, where you will have the opportunity to tailor the support towards those who need it the most, in a better way. It is a fact that studies show that it is often those of us with good advice who have the opportunity to implement energy efficiency measures, because even with Enova support, investment costs are sometimes quite high. One important thing that we got through to in the budget agreement, which is a targeted measure, which was presented a few weeks ago, was to give 100 million. kr to municipalities for the upgrading of municipal apartments. This is a very accurate measure that ensures that those with the worst advice and who rent an apartment, and who do not reap the benefit of investing in an additional measure themselves, actually receive support for it. None of the proposals that have been promoted and that we are not behind today would have given such support. Enova is generally asked to improve, but there is nothing in this that would have secured them with poor advice a better boost. That's what they do 100 million. kr for additional measures in municipal apartments, and there is something we need to do more of in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1083	The left will not support the proposal to renegotiate the governance agreement with Enova. It is a good basis for the work to be done by 2025 and also by 2030. The basis for this is that more attention is now being given to reducing emissions. So we're going to cut our emissions, according to what we've reported to the United Nations, by 50-55 pst. by 2030. It's not a goal; it's a commitment. We need to achieve the same within the climate agreement we have with the EU. In addition, both the government and the left have taken into account in their programmes that we should cut our emissions by 55 pst. by 2030. We have to cut a lot in the non-quota sector. The way the agreement with the EU is now, it's 40 pst. It'll be reinforced to 50 pst. And it's clear that Enova is going to be a very important part of how we're going to achieve those goals. Previously, reference has been made to previous measures that Enova has started, whether it is the aluminium mill at Karmøy, biogas at Skogn or Hywind Tampen. During the year we have probably 70 ferries that are emission-free, and we have a support scheme for vans and heavy transport. This needs to be further developed. The problem of saying that you want to renegotiate and strengthen it with an additional measure — it’s very good with an additional measure — is that you also have to say what you want to prioritize down. We should remember that theincreased actions in Enova also come from a political initiative. The left was the initiator of the support for the network charge that goes to Enova and to put in place the additional subsidy to private households from 2015 onwards. It grew up until 2018, and then it's gotten a little smaller in the last two years. It's been 250 million. kr per year. In the new governance agreement, it amounts to 300 million. kr per year. I would say that if you want to strengthen it, it is right to do what has been done in the budget negotiations, namely to target 100 million. NOK extra on that particular part. This can also be done with the governance agreement Enova has. That's how you should go in if there's changes you want to make. Enova works very well. They do their job, with late-stage technology development, early market introduction, and to bring about lasting market changes. They should continue to have that task – and target it. If you want other priorities from a political point of view, the way you do it is to do it, what we did when we started investing in zero-emission trucks and heavy-duty vehicles, with an additional agreement with Enova. It is fully possible to create targeted additional agreements with Enova, including with increased support. If we are to achieve the objectives of reducing emissions, it is clear that Enova support and support for Enova must be increased in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1101	People now pay high electricity bills to meet basic needs like light, heat and cooking. Few people predicted that we would end up in such a situation only a few months ago, but what we now know is that we can get high power bills for a long time to come. Therefore, many people want to initiate measures in their home to reduce consumption and produce their own electricity. It is very good and an important part of the solution, but then the support schemes must become both more and more accessible than they are today. Such schemes are today, you have to be both a medium and an energy-saving enthusiast to make use of the offer. The most important kilowatt hour is the one we don't use. Energy saving provides lower power billing while saving nature for unnecessary power build-up. In addition, efficient use of energy will release large amounts of electricity to other needs in society, in other words, a kind of cheek egg if we do it right. Originally, Enova was to ensure that energy saving became attractive to both industry and households. Over the years, however, Enova’s mandate has moved more towards cutting emissions in industry rather than supporting known and popular domestic savings measures. Climate action and industrial change are important tasks that Enova will continue to have, and the Greens will strengthen Enova in this field. But it cannot be at the expense of the absolutely necessary job of saving energy in households. When only a few in the population know the schemes and the subsidies are not used, something is not working. It should be a matter of course that all the funds paid to the energy fund by households are actually paid back to support energy saving. When Enova doesn't do this, someone else has to do it. The Greens want the Husbank to have the primary responsibility for examining applications for support for energy saving measures in households. That is why we are not going to vote in favour of a proposal to renegotiate the agreement with Enova, although we fully agree with the intention behind the proposal and thank them for promoting the proposal and raising the debate. We believe that the arrangements need to be given a more social profile and that they need to be expanded considerably. The House Bank has a long experience of reaching out to a wide range of the population, and especially families with low incomes. That is why I am pleased that the government has said that they will consider moving responsibility to the House Bank, but I also expect the government to come up with concrete support schemes to allow them, with the worst of advice, to reduce their electricity consumption, as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1116	The high electricity prices of winter have naturally caused deep concern in society, and the situation has been particularly demanding for households with low incomes. For this reason, the government and the Storting have been concerned about setting up for those affected, with immediate measures, as the now well-known electricity support system. In the longer term, as has been mentioned by several, there are basically two responses to this. It's producing more power, and it's getting a lot neater to use the force smarter, that is, better energy efficiency. And there is no doubt that there is a significant lag in relation to the long-pronounced, but did not achieve the goal of a saving of 10 TWh, and it wants this government to contribute to. Through the budgetary agreement with SV, the government has increased the funds allocated to climate and energy measures by households and consumers through Enova to 400 million. kr annually, in addition to a number of other increases in Enova. It's in itself an increase of 100 million. kr from the previous government. On 2 February this year, Enova launched a wide range of new measures aimed at households and consumers, including: increased support for solar panels, support for smart power management, support for smart water heaters and screening support for housing sites and housing pools. At the end of January, as the representative Haltbrecken recalled, the government also launched a scheme of 100 million. kr through Enova aimed at energy measures in municipal housing. So this is a particularly effective and targeted system to meet some of those who have the least, and who – once again, as the Haltbreken said – are considerably more precise than the proposals that are on the table here today, when it comes to meeting those sitting at the bottom of the table. Climate policy and energy policy are inextricably linked, and we need a very comprehensive transformation of both society and business. Then it is very important that we use all the tools in the toolbox, and that we know how to use them as best we can. Enova’s mandate is – rightly – eaten as a climate agent. So this is a special tool that the government will use to speed up the technology that Norway so badly needs. Enova will aim to help to mature technologies, so that they are cheaper and can be used next time without support. It is very important to realize that this means that you sometimes have to go into some new areas and end others. Heat pumps, for example, were immature technology and are now relatively common, and 100 000 of these are installed per year in Norway. Then I want to comment on those who say that the Enova money is not being used. This is a four-year scheme, and the last time Enova had a four-year scheme, everything was used up. They actually used a little bit more. The first year was a little underpayment, but all that money is still available, so anyone who wants to apply now has even more money available for the measures they are now going to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1136	The right is concerned that Enova uses the full pot they have, to create some new applications aimed at households and consumers. And recently, as the Council of State was in it, the government parties could tell that 100 million. kr – i.e. one quarter of the pot – will be used to upgrade municipal housing. I must say I have great sympathy for that support. There is no doubt that many municipal dwellings are poorly upgraded, and that many have had to deal with high electricity bills. That's also why we have increased housing support. But it is a kind of failure statement that it is now the state that has to take the bill for municipalities, and especially the large municipalities, over time have let municipal housing lapse. It is actually the municipalities that have to take responsibility for the satisfactory level of energy in these dwellings. My question to the Council of State is this: When it comes to setting up support schemes, does the Council of State think that more money should be spent on compensating cities like Oslo, which this year have received record profits from Hafslund, or is that money to be used in another way?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1143	I definitely do not want the municipalities to discharge their responsibilities, and that this new measure should become a sleep cushion, because it is absolutely right that this is a responsibility that the municipalities have when they are municipal housing. But here we are making it easier to take action that could be as targeted as possible in the form of rapid and feasible measures against people who want to do this themselves to a very small extent, among other things. because they rent a municipal dwelling and have very little incentive or capacity to carry out the upgrade themselves. This must come to the top of what the municipality does, and of course we are also in dialogue with the municipalities that this is not in any way that we assume that responsibility from the municipalities. It was – and I think it was wise – a desire to try to be as focused as possible in meeting someone who had hardly done it himself. Then I remind you – and there were others inside their posts – that saving power at home is beneficial both for the individual and for society. It's beneficial for the person who does it, because the bill goes down and predictability goes up, and it's beneficial for society, because you release power for other uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1150	Like I said, I have sympathy for spending 100 million. kr on this now, and I also think it is absolutely crucial for many in municipal housing that they can gradually bring down the electricity bills. I challenge it all the same, precisely because cities like Bergen and Oslo have a large maintenance kit, and Oslo has received an extraordinary profit because of high electricity bills without even prioritizing those measures. So there's a balance here what the state is going to compensate for, and that balance shows up in several debates. One thing here was: what is it to support energy measures that can be profitable in the market, or that would in any case arise in the market? And then the second problem: how do you secure a social profile? Then I would like to ask the Council of State questions about the House Bank and the scheme that you assess there, how you might want to set it up if you want to manage to reach those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1155	I would like to thank both for the question and express my joy at the fact that there are still representatives who believe that the state is not going to pay for absolutely everything, because it has become a habit to believe that there are no limits to what the state is going to spend money on. However, in the case of any criticism of large or small municipalities, I feel that they must be directed to the correct addressee, and right now it is not the present Council of State, but it is important that the municipalities have a responsibility for this themselves. So now it is working quite systematically on this with the House Bank. I believe – and I understand that the representative Tybring-Gjedde agrees – that Enova as such has a particularly important responsibility for developing new technology and getting it in and thereby bringing down prices so that it becomes available to everyone. Then you have other types of problems that also have to be solved, but it doesn't necessarily have to be solved with Enova, because Enova is a special tool, and we should get more tools in that toolbox. An extension of the Husbank's mandate could be one of the solutions to what goes more at the end of implementing known technology, such as a simple upgrade to Glava and new windows.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1162	Unlike the previous replicator, I don't just have sympathy for the 100 million. kr to go to the upgrade of municipal apartments – I think it’s a brilliant and absolutely excellent idea, because it helps some of those who work the most. So my challenge to the Council of State is: Will we be able to achieve more of this kind of action? I'll think that's a hundred million. unfortunately is not enough to meet the needs of municipal apartments. And will the Council of State and the government be involved in looking at an increase in investment in addition to the effort towards municipal apartments that are targeting families with poor advice, so that we can help even more people with the sky-high electricity bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1167	Firstly, I share the enthusiasm for this arrangement that the representative Haltbrecken, who helped to develop it, is expressing. I think this is a very targeted measure, and when we looked at different solutions, we also got a clear feedback that this was feasible so quickly that it would give measurable effect at the next firing season. So the next time it's called in Norway, something will have happened that will make these costs go down, and it's certainly right that there is a need for more. So I'm not going to outshoot future budgets, but this will be a natural dialogue to go on also considering what to do in this segment. But what I'm a little concerned about right now is that even though we agree and should agree that we need to provide more and more energy saving measures with the optimal instruments, we also need what Enova does to develop and bring it in. Because we need some new solutions that we do not know today, in order to achieve the rather ambitious climate targets set by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1174	In an answer to a written question from Red on the support for solar panels, the Council of State states that: ‘Enova’s role is to be an important instrument for contributing to technology development and early market introduction. Enova support shall relieve the risks and costs of those who are first out to test new solutions.’;» It means, as I read it, that ordinary households who are going to do ordinary and not advanced upgrades do not benefit from these support schemes. Then my question is: is the Council of State agreed with Red that only a few can benefit from Enova's support schemes, weakening the uptake of climate objectives? And in that case, are you looking for other support schemes or other ways to give people support for what is a little bit less new and exciting solutions, but that can actually both cut power billing and save power, as the Council of State has rightly said, is useful both for individuals and for society, without perhaps being the brand new, revolutionary technologies that you support?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1184	It was a complex question, because I wanted to answer no and yes. No, I do not think that continuing the main objective of Enova undermines support for climate policy. I think it's important to explain that there's one tool among several. But yes, I'm busy getting a fair climate policy that makes people feel that they also have the opportunity to make the savings that are possible for them. Then I am concerned that we are looking at the whole chain of instruments. Sometimes there is support, sometimes there may be building regulations and a number of other measures that can add up to that effect, but it is important that, in sum, we make sure that we save more electricity. It's good for the individual, who then gets more control of the power bill, gets lower costs, and it's also smart because it releases power for other purposes in society. We're going to electrify a number of things that are fossil today. It is important to remember that Norway’s energy mix is still almost 50 pst. fossil. So after a broad decision in Stortinget, it has to be 0 pst. fossil, and then we have to have the power to do it as well. Then we must not use the force incorrectly, but smartly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1192	Now I got an answer here earlier, that the Enova support for an additional measure comes in addition to any changes and via the House Bank, which is more socially targeted. But I can ask another question. The most important additional measures we can have are those that are economically profitable, and it's about the whole system we have around the corner. Then there's something about that cooperation in Europe where we're hanging out. With regard to the Energy Savings Directive, we have not adopted the last part, and it is clear that in the Ready for 55, the Energy Savings Directive will also be further strengthened. My question is then: is the Council of State prepared to work towards the EU so that we can introduce these directives approximately at the same time as the European Union, so that we do not get stuck behind in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1199	The answer to that is yes. We are working closely towards the EU, which is now developing this on a continuous basis. There will be a lot of sensible climate policy through the Ready for the 55 package that will be very useful to us – both because it does things we already either want to do or have started to do, or do something that creates new opportunities for Norwegian business. What the EU is really doing now is transforming the whole market into a much higher demand for new goods and services based on low and zero emissions. So the answer to that is yes, this is a very important part of the job, and it will help us a lot. It is also important to stress that when very many do the same at the same time, the costs of introducing new technologies will also fall sharply. There's not going to be anything we're just going to do here in Norway. Once an advanced heat pump has been invented, it has been invented in many countries at the same time, because the technology is borderlined. That's why this is actually a good drag for much faster getting there that ordinary people can apply new solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1206	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1225	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1232	Now we are going to consider a proposal from several representatives of the Progress Party on changes to the Robbery Management. A total of seven proposals have been made in this matter, from various parties. They will probably be set up by the proposers. The Committee's recommendation is that the draft representative should not be adopted. The recommendation is promoted by the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the SV, the Red, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. Thank you to the committee, which has worked cleanly during the examination of the matter. The Committee considers that the effective and efficient management of wild game following the launch of the Storting, Berne and ILO Conventions on the Rights of Native Peoples, including as regards licence hunting, quota hunting and indemnification, is very important. The two-part objective must be both predatory and grazing. But about this, the consensus on the matter ends, and I am referring to the Hurdal platform stating that a more restrictive predatory policy should be pursued. The government's policy is based on the local management model set out in the Robbery Agreement and the role of regional predators is to be strengthened. A decisive emphasis shall be placed on the decision of the denominators. It has already been done by, for example, the government. have maintained the decisions of the predators of regions 4 and 5 on the killing of four wolfevir within wolfesona. After a round in Oslo District Court and a round in Borgarting Lawyers' Court, it is confirmed that the decision on the licensing of wolves within the Sons is valid, and there are probably ten to eleven wolves already. This shows that a more restrictive predatory policy is under way by a new government. Other parties today promote proposals for a doubling of the stockpiles target for wolves in Norway. That makes sense enough in the Storting, and that's good, because the main challenge in the Robbery Management is to balance the two-part objective. For a long time robbers have been the main target, and thus the balance of the conciliation has been distorted. I would like to mention in particular the ILO Convention on the Aborigines of Independent States, where the main principle is the right of indigenous peoples to preserve and further develop their culture and the duty of the authorities to take decisions to support this work. Although the entire committee is behind this convention, the government of the former regime has not followed up with the people of the Sami reindeer. For example, the reindeer in Northern Ireland hardly have calves to slaughter, and after eight years of right-wing management, last year the State Manager sent a page in the Skoma about the compulsory winding-up of reindeer operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1247	It was high time for a change of government, also in view of predatory policies. After eight years with a government that was unable to deal properly with predatory policies, it is time for a new and tighter predatory policy, and it will provide the Workers' Party and the Centre's government. We shall ensure that the agreed stock targets for predators are followed up, not trained, as the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left largely did. We're going to practise the predatory game deal in such a way that the license agreement is implemented according to the Storting decision. We have to respect grazing areas by killing harmful predators without undue delay. We're going to figure out how to reduce the current stocking target for wolf and bear. We're not going to have so-called interval targets. The stock targets shall be defined as minimum and maximum targets and we shall ensure that rapid breeding authorisations are granted for harmful predators for a longer period of time. We also need to make sure that the license hunt for you is more efficient, and we need to ensure a better and more accurate census of predators. Had representatives from the Progress Party had taken the time to read the Hurdal platform, they would not have taken the time to produce this Document 8. Then the Progress Party could spend time thinking about what they've been doing for eight years, eight consecutive years when the Progress Party did not take action on predatory policies, but allowed its political friends, among other things. Left to control that policy. The progress party cared very little. But now they're going to care, now the Progress Party is going to suddenly try to be credible in predatory policy. That attempt is already already revealed, as the Progress Party does not appear with such political credibility. After all, it has proved their government participation and the support wheel they were for the previous government. I will conclude by quoting briefly the following leading comments in the People's Action new predatory policy, which was under pressure in November 2021: After eight years of the Solberg government's predatory policy, sometimes similar to that of the Muppet Show, it's allowed to rejoice a little over a new government. The quotation continues to refer to the Hurdal platform. It says: There is clearly a red thread going through the platform. It is a boost to reason, research, hunters and those who produce and harvest environmentally friendly and climate-friendly food in Norwegian nature. It's not a little. With regard to predatory policy, the Hurdal platform is pointing forward, and it is pointing in the right direction. It was, as I said, high time. We're gonna take people who live, work and live in the districts seriously. An effective and effective predatory policy is part of a sound and good district policy, and it therefore needs the districts after eight years of the Solberg government, where district policy largely consisted of centralisation measures and a predatory policy that did not take the districts seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1268	The media look-up in the last few months, and not least in courtrooms, shows how much predatory management is required. At the Scandinavian level, estimates show that the stock has increased to approximately 500 individuals, a total of well over 100 wolves have been detected with total or partial maintenance in the Norwegian area. The size has set national stock targets for the number of puppy coal to be born in Norway and in border regions every year. The stock measures are of 4- to 6-year-old wolfholes in Norway and in border reviral areas, of which at least three coals shall be born in pan-Norwegian reviral areas. In 2020, poppy coal was born in five pannormous revirons, and seven coals in border revirons. Genetic analyses have shown that the wolf in Norway and Sweden is characterised by inbreeding, but in recent years new immigrants from the Finnish-Russian population have been temporarily registered, both on the Norwegian and Swedish sides. So there's hope that the challenges of inbreeding can get better. Diverging predators and grazing animals, with their own priority zones of priority for predators and grazing animals, has led to a significant reduction in the loss of livestock on land during the last few years. Therefore, it is particularly critical that the government removes the incentive to reduce predatory conflicts as soon as they take over government offices. Right wants us to have viable populations of the four major predatory species in Norway, plus the king eagle. The administration of wild game must be in accordance with the Berne Convention, the natural disasters, the likes of wild game here on the Stortinget and other leaders from the Stortinget. This is demanding, especially when one experiences a conflict of objectives between the Berne Convention, the natural disaster promise and the like here on the Storting. National populations of the four major predators, bears, gloats, yurts and wolves are low in concern for grazing, and it is imperative to manage these species on precise stocking targets every year. But I would like to remind you that in its management audit of predator management in 2019, the Riksrevision concluded that grazing with livestock is viable, but in some areas it is too high a predatory pressure. Since predator management is mandatory, it is sometimes necessary for a few years to be either above or below the stocking target – without any error in the management of predators for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1283	Previously speaking from the Labour Party, we didn't think we could have read the Hurdal platform. It may seem that it is a problem for the Center Party and the Labour Party to read the same platform, because it would be normal people's turn, and everything would be cheaper and better. But everyone now sees that there are sky-high power prices, sky-high fuel prices, and sky-high livestock targets for predators. We in the Progress Party will also have viable populations of the four large predators in Norway. It's a 2011 predator deal that we now think makes sense to roll and reassemble. I also notice that the representatives from the government parties wrote in the comments on the matter that the 2011 agreement was to be evaluated after five years. It is claimed that it was done too badly. She can do that. At least there is a need to reconsider and roll the predatory game agreement. It's determined by the government party, too, but one is not willing to vote for what we have presented, where we actually promote what the government party itself writes. The reality of the herds of predators in Norway is that when it comes to you, there must be 39 young people – that's 60. The average for the last few years is 62 young people – that is, a long way to be a double, and a sky high above the target. When it comes to goofing, it's 67 young people, and it's going to be 65, so it's a little bit over. The Kings ’ Eagles are well above the target, and there are major problems with both reindeer and other industries. For bear, numbers are a little bit below the stock target. The challenge is that according to Rovdata, 2 000 more animals lost to predators in grazing areas have been reported, and it is quite right, as the representative of the Right said, that today’s government is cutting off the path of conflict mitigation. We in the Progress Party had hoped that we could have a rollover of the predatory agreement, not to remove the predators, but to level the stock target and the measures to keep the populations at the level determined by the Storting. For example, only in region 6, so More and Romsdal and Trøndelag, which I'm part of, it has to be. for you be 10 young men in average. There are 17.3 young people in that area. There are enormous problems for grazing, and then it is time for us to address them. This was our intention in this matter. I feel that both the government and the other parties are not interested in rolling, and that one will have a measure of survival for a part of the predators that is sky high above what is agreed, even for wolves, as the wolves have shown in recent times. I believe that the grazing industry, the agricultural industry and the reindeer industry have brought it a long time ago. I welcome the suggestions made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1298	The representative Frank Edvard Sve has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1303	Change in predatory management must take place with a solid anchoring of knowledge and contribute to the long-term survival of the species — not in the form of new political upheavals, as has been a trend. The world is in a deep natural crisis where species and their habitat are put under pressure by human activity. Especially delayed are the predators who need large reveres, and who are protected by the law of Norway. The evidence shows that wolf is critically trodden, while yawning, yawning, and bear are highly trodden. There are no animals that have been followed so closely as these predators, and of course they should be managed following the decisions that have been taken. On this background, it is not so strange that pictures of killed animals in rows and rows in the snow have caused people to react strongly in the last few days. Builders and villagers come in contact with us and ask us to stop this wretched act in Wolfesona. One might say a lot about the hunting of a licence that takes place in a wolf's son, but the conflict has not been mitigated – on the contrary. It depended on trust in state power when the Council of State repeats the mantra of thorough, good processes, and that nature is well preserved in government, when at the same time what happens with Norwegian nature in this and several other matters. Natural diversity laws and the Berne Convention form the basis for our administration of biodiversity. In nature, it says: ‘The aim is to ensure the long-term conservation of species and their genetic diversity and their occurrence in viable populations in their natural distribution areas. As far as is necessary to achieve this objective, the ecological functional areas of the species and the other ecological conditions upon which they are dependent shall also be respected.’;» The Berne Convention requires that there be last resort and great losses in order to make exceptions to the peacekeeping grounds. But the wolves that are now killed do not have domestic animals. On the contrary, if the reversing flocks are removed, there may be a greater problem with the longer-west stripper. That's what history will show. I don't have a romantic notion that the wolf and the lamb go side by side peacefully, and we think communities that house predators should be compensated. So we were sorry that that compensation was drawn out. We're also going to be quick to take out pests. SV operates in Norwegian agriculture and District Norway. We want a much more offensive rural and agricultural policy, but not by going in and taking out a lot more of the predators. SV doesn't think it's wise to move the management of predators to the Ministry of Agriculture, and therefore I take up the proposal No. 1 and 4, which deal with increased stocking targets for wolves and end-of-life in wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1323	The representative of Birgit Oline Kjerstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1328	The place of predators in the Norwegian ecosystem is to be ensured, and when the Workers' Party and the Centre warn of a tightening of predator management compared to what it was under previous governments, it is difficult to understand how, especially for wolves, it will be in line with the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and the Stortinge decision on stockpiles. The wolf zone is 5 pst. of the area of Norway. In the Red's work programme, we note that Red wants a low threshold for the trapping of predatory game in grazing priority areas, but a corresponding high threshold for harvesting in predatory priority areas. We also support the 2011 agreement on predators. We believe that the hunt that is now taking place is taking place inside the wolf zone, a predatory priority area, on animals that have not done much damage. That is why the vote will support the SV's proposal and the Greens' Greens' proposal to stop the hunt. This proposal also states that the hunt should not be extended, as the Council of State in the Political Quarter of the NRC this morning said it would be assessed. Retirement satisfaction is believed to be strong in Norway, and so it must be done for the wolf, even if an ongoing clarification in the judicial system has made this year’s hunting season perhaps shorter than the Council of State would wish. The Hurdal Platform states that ‘a reduction of existing stocking targets for wolves and bears, with the aim of reducing the burden on grazing industry and communities’, is to be investigated. It will be difficult to secure the place of the wolf in the Norwegian ecosystem with a lower stocking target than the current one. When the government is going to launch this investigation, we think it is very important that it is done by an environmentally strong body.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1341	This debate on predatory management is also somewhat astonishing, as these debates tend to be in the Storting. On the left, there is no reason to tighten up or make predatory management more restrictive in Norway today. If we look at the results over the last ten years, the loss of grazing animals to predators is halved. We might have the most professional game management in any country. We have a good knowledge of the predatory game we have, and the two-part goal works. At the same time, we have a predatory game deal that, by its end of life, makes wolves critically threatened, and bears, gloats and yervs are heavily threatened. Normally, in a situation where we've achieved the goals by the fact that the number of grazing animals lost to predators has fallen as much as it has in the last ten years – it's halved, although there's as much grazing animals out there today as it was ten years ago – the real discussion should be whether there's room for us to have stock that makes some of these species less endangered than they are today. Now, if we're going to go into the predatory game deal, we should really think about whether we can increase the stock targets. For you guys, there's no doubt that the number of young people that are now on the ground, 39, who make us have to run with unethical hi-takes to be able to keep the population down, can be higher without it leading to any more loss of grazing animals to you for that reason. That's the exact same thing with the discussion now about wolf: the wolf flocks we have, those that are in the wolf zone, are well established in stable revir. It's almost not a problem with them. There is at least no risk of loss of grazing animals to these flocks. The problem is that we have a stock target that is so low that it's hard to get on the stock without breaking the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act. The left, together with several parties in this case, has proposed to increase the stock target, and that is not much: eight to twelve young people are about where we have been in the last few years. It will make administration much simpler and much less conflicty than it is today. The left will also vote in favour of the proposal to stop the hunt that is now, as long as we do not have the clarity that the hunting season will end on 15 February, which is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1353	In what other area would we accept that the government is trying to resolve a conflict about the use of an area by systematically persecuting and slaughtering our fellow creatures? During the weekend, a significant part of the Norwegian wolf population has been killed inside the wolf zone, and now several wolves are facing the Swedish border with their backs against the wall and are waiting for a trip. All four large predators are either critically threatened or severely threatened by extermination from Norwegian nature. In the case of wolves, there are about 100 individuals with total or partial support in Norway. This is an extreme situation for a species. The wolf belongs naturally in Norwegian nature regardless of the country from which individuals have their genetic origin. I myself have a tipped-off father from Finland and hope that the government does not want to deport me if I should be concerned. Today's predatory game policy means keeping the population to an absolute minimum. There are so few animals that it leads to extensive inbreeding. Norway takes almost zero responsibility for the population we share with Sweden. I think there is a broad understanding in the Norwegian people that we need to recognise, take care of and find good solutions for farmers who experience predatory losses. It hurts and has consequences to experience that domestic animals and dogs lose their lives in contact with predators. We want a predatory policy that also takes into account grazing and prevents unnecessary deaths and conflicts. But I think there is much less understanding in the Norwegian people that there is not today a single place where the wolf can be at peace. The wolf zone is only 5 pst. of the area of Norway. That's where the wolf was supposed to be protected. In view of this, the hunt that is now going on is simply grotesque. Nor has it been given that the current hunt will cause less damage to grazing animals in the eastern part of the world. In the wolf zone, the wolf lives to a large extent in solid viruses, which cause relatively little damage to grazing animals. The reviruses also act as a buffer against striped animals from the Swedish part of the population, and as we know, it is the striped animals that move over long distances, which do the most damage to domestic animals. Together with SV, the Greens are promoting proposals today to stop the current turbulent act inside the wolf zone. We very much appreciate the support from the Red and the Left, but we would prefer to have the support of all the other parties in that matter. We also, in part together with other parties, promote several other proposals for a better predatory policy, including: on increasing stockpiles, eliminating predatory wildlife and we will take care of the farmers and increase support for measures to prevent predatory losses. I would like to thank the NOAH, the WWF and the Association of Our Crustaceans, who have done an important job this fall and winter by taking the government's plans for a large-scale wolfact inside the wolf zone to court, and the many volunteers who are now doing what they can to save the lives of the wolves who are threatened. The fact that we haven't won this far means that we need a new predator policy in Norway. With that, I take up the proposals that the Greens are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1370	The representative Kristoffer Robin Haug has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1375	I am concerned that we are going to have an administration of predatory game in accordance with the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act, the Robbery Agreements and other leaders from the Storting. We need to build on the two-part objective and conduct clear zone management. As we hear here, there are a number of challenges related to the management of predatory game. We have those who want a lot fewer in terms of the number of predators, we have those who want a much higher number, and then it's those of us who try to manage this in the best possible way, based on what's really a clear wish from the Storting through years of development of settlement. A key point in the policy of predatory wildlife is the regional predators and their regional responsibility for implementing the policy adopted. This government will strengthen the role of predators regionally. At the same time, it is an important principle that management should be sound and knowledge-based. It is therefore the case that the robbers have the state administrators in the role of secretarial services. They are advised by the Directorate-General for the Environment — i.e. they receive professional advice — and the Ministry of Climate and Environment is the Board of Appeal for decisions taken by the denominators. Overall, I believe that this ensures a solid and good professional knowledge base, while at the same time ensuring an important democratic element in the management of wild game. The stock targets vary for different types of predatory game. They are below the target of the bear, very close to the target of the gaupe, in the range target of the royal eagle and above the target of the herd of the yurt and the wolf. It's demanding to manage small populations of wild animals precisely on stock targets, but we're doing what we can to get as close to the national stock targets as possible, always taking into account that the other criteria are met, i.e. in line with the intention of the Nature Diversity Act and the Berne Convention. For licensing under Section 18(c) of the Nature Diversity Act, the importance of the stock target is legalised by the fact that in 2020 — based on a proposal from, inter alia, the undersigned, who was then sitting on the Stortinget – was agreed by the Stortinget that stock targets should be taken into account when assessing withdrawals under point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 18. I am very pleased that, in its fresh sense, the law also recognises the importance of the clarification of the law in the outcome that we then got, which enabled us to start up again that turbulence act, after we had lost 42 of 46 days. So there were only four days left, and that's the whole basis for the discussion of what we're doing now. We will conclude on this later today, after a conversation with Sweden, because I can tell you that the whole Norwegian territory has been removed. It's the border surveillance virus that's about now, and then we, as good neighbors, have to talk to our neighbors first, before we go on with any expanded hunting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1390	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1395	We hear you've done a job that's kind of hit the goal. My question is: Does the President-in-Office — the Council of State — think that one has achieved the objectives of the Ministry of Climate and Environment when it is in force, for example? You guys, you're supposed to have 39 kids and you've had 62 over time? Has one done a job that has hit well in the manager one should have had?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1400	Now I don't know what the president means, but as far as what the Council of State thinks, I think we're far above the targets. That is why we have launched exceptional measures in the field of withdrawals of yours, in order to make that licensing agreement more successful. In fact, we have had a number of measures, but there have been difficult situations, among other things. Linked to weather, and we have asked the State's nature oversight to play an additional role in it. Jerv is one of the populations where we are far above the target. So, in line with the principles I outlined in my article, you have to try to ensure that you respect the stock target, either below the stock, where you have to protect better, or above it, where you have to manage more actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1405	But what exactly does one want to do, for example? in region 6, where a population of 10 young people has an average of 17.3? There's a great deal to be done, and one has enormous challenges in grazing. One has been trying for very many years to get the Environment Directorate and the Ministry in particular to take action to do something about the stock target. What would the State Council do to bring the stock target in region 6 down to a level consistent with the predatory agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1412	I understand it so that the question again is about you, and then the answer is to become even more effective in your extraction. The Council of State will not itself contribute to it in region 6, but I will ensure that far more competent hunters and the State's nature oversight contribute to it through the measures that are both proposed and approved and that are now underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1417	I'm being contacted by people in the wolf zone who want wolves there, who know the community well and are also confident at political level, and who feel that this situation and the way these predators are discussed is being very acute. They see that it is possible to do much more to mitigate the measures. We know that the budget has been cut in this area. Will the Council of State join in looking at how to achieve more anti-conflict measures, and also work more on this in the future, in the next budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1422	I feel that the most conflict-relieving measure is to manage so that people recognize what they perceive the Stortinge has adopted, among others. respect for the objectives of populations that very many people — in no way all, but many — have experienced in the most affected areas has been exceeded many times. It is in itself a contribution to reducing the potential conflict. Then part of the measures that we, quite correctly, cut, felt as very little effective in practice. There was a wide range of measures to spend money on so-called anti-conflict measures, including: canoe rental and museum visits, which did not necessarily have a direct connection with the purpose. We are committed to having a good dialogue with these environments as well. I can assure the representative that I am contacted by people who have very strong opinions about wolves, and so we find them on both sides of this conflict – both those who feel that they have now been heard, after many years of not being listened to, and those who have a genuine despair of taking out more wolves than they want. It is part of the core of this policy. That is why we need a balanced and comprehensive approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1429	Obviously, this isn't easy. It's conflictful. At the same time, there is no doubt that we in Norway have had a kind of fear culture around predators and some other animals. When my mother woke up, it was like seeing a hogworm, then he killed one. We're done with that. Now, we're going to be glad that the hoggorm is there. In countries like Romania, they have a lot of wolves, they have a lot of people, and they have a lot of grazing animals. Nature and agriculture live side by side in a different way from what it does in Norway. How will the Council of State work to mitigate future conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1435	Once again, I would say that the best thing I can do in a situation where there is conflicting vision and really most understandable view of both sides of this disagreement, which is also expressed here, is manage as closely as possible the agreed decisions the Stortinget has made. We're going to have full respect for the Natural Diversity Act, we're going to meet the Berne Convention's obligations, and we're going to do beyond that to the stock objectives. And then, of course, we're going to have a low threshold to take out animals that are particularly threatening to graze, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1440	I really have a very simple question. This year it is probably 50 years since the Ministry of Environment was established. So here we have four species. One is critically threatened, and the other three are strongly threatened. The Minister for Climate and Environment believes that it would be good if species that are critically threatened or severely threatened could be less threatened if it did not produce a negative effect, for example. on the number of grazing animals that will be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1445	Firstly, it is right that the Ministry of Climate and Environment is 50 years old, and we will come back to that and have big celebrations of it. Then, too, former government councils will certainly be involved in it. I believe that a very central part of the assumption for predatory game policy is that we should have sustainable strains. It comes from conventions we have joined internationally, and it comes from our own natural diversity law. We'll practice in line with that. Then we have a double objective in Norway. We're going to have both predatory game, we're going to have genetically strong, sustainable strains, and we're going to have grazing animals and settlements across the country. Then there will be some balances, which I, as the Minister for Climate and Environment, am trying to balance in the best possible way, taking into account a set of different objectives that must be achieved as far as possible in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1454	I notice from the answer that there was no desire for them to be less critically threatened in the years ahead than they are today. If we look at wolves, the only reason that the harvesting of four flocks is not now considered a threat to the population is the policy pursued in Sweden. Sweden has a completely different predatory policy and must comply with the Habitats Directive as an EU member. As I understand it, the Council of State also agrees that Norway should be a member of the EU. Does the Council also believe that we should include the Habitats Directive in Norwegian legislation – which would provide a completely different basis for the forest game management in Norway, without having more negative effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1459	EU membership is not on the agenda, nor is it included in the Habitats Directive. But it's true that we're managing a practically common wolf tribe, and because this is border reviral, the remaining questions about the revirals that are now remaining require clarification with Sweden. Sweden also hunts the same wolves in full understanding with Norway. Sweden also believes that it is necessary to manage to maintain a sustainable strain. However, it is also important to stress that there are several differences in Norway and Sweden. Sweden also has a completely different housing pattern than Norway has, and has been less concerned with maintaining grazing in the areas adjacent to the wolf areas. There is a slightly different policy between Norway and Sweden, but there is absolute room for a good dialogue between Norway and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1466	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1471	As rapporteur, I would like to thank you for an important debate on the matter. I only have a few moments to deal with at the end of the debate. The progress party has failed the grazing industry for eight years. Now they are calling for the new government to take action and correct the mistakes they themselves made. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party work for the grazing industry completely independently of the ideas of the Advance Party, where they still meet themselves in the doorway. The predatory settlement was to be evaluated after five years. 2011 plus five years – then we've come to 2016–2017. The party of progress was not involved and evaluated the predatory settlement in any good way, and now they believe that the centre party has failed its voters. Don't the representatives of the Progress Party have any shame? This is a frenzy completely unparalleled. After all, it is the Progress Party that has failed its voters – year after year after year after year after year after year after year! And so, in the case of the natural crisis: the large grasslands have long been an important part of the ecosystem in Europe, long before domestic grazing animals began to graze in the field. The big lawns kept the lawns up. Many of them are now extinct, but such natural pastures are very important for many species of red-listed. Within the framework of the Berne Convention, it is permitted, under certain conditions, to evict peaceful predators. It is not contrary to the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act, which provide for the extraction of predators in order to safeguard public interests of essential importance, and the achievement of the stock target of predatory species shall be emphasised. Some organisations or individuals believe that Norway does not fulfil its obligations under the Berne Convention, and Norway has been sued by the Standing Committee, without any justification for criticising the Norwegian Robbery Administration. However, the head of the Voengelh-Nårke Reinbeite district has filed a complaint against the Norwegian Government of Robbery against the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which is to investigate the injustice committed against the community, or the abuses committed in this situation. These two examples show that it is both possible and necessary to pursue a more restrictive predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1482	I could have been tempted to refer to others who may not have just followed what they went to choose. I don't think I should fall for the temptation to do that. I record that the Center Party is very agitated and angry at the Progress Party because we are actually making suggestions that the Center Party has been for at all times, for example. inter alia: transferring responsibility for the predators to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. But we get such ears from the Center Party. There's no way how exciting it is when it comes to criticizing us for actually wanting a tighter predatory policy, which the Center Party has been fighting for for many years. Who should the Centre have as allies in predatory policy when they are in a way captivated by the Progress Party and do not want anything to do with our views in that area? Is it the Socialist Left Party, is it the Environmental Party of Greens, or who is it a desire to ally with in order to have a tighter predatory policy in government? The government is a minority government with the Central Party and the Labour Party and must seek support from the Storting for the measures they had to take to keep a tighter predatory policy and adhere to the stock targets adopted in 2011. Based on the debate I've heard today, it's actually only the Progress Party that the Center Party and the Labour Party can rely on in order to actually achieve the goals that lie in the predatory settlement. The other parties, both the Green Party, SV and others, will have much higher stocking targets and increase the number of predators in Norwegian fauna, which is in conflict with the needs of both grazing, reindeer and others. We didn't order the government to do yours and yours. We have asked for a rollover and a revision of the predatory agreement from 2011, as the last speaker from the Center Party points out that it should have been done five years after 2011. The signs, which are here, have not been in government or in the Great Britain before. I'm elected, like the 20 others in our group, on the party program that was agreed in the spring of 2021. That is the basis for me to face up to our current policy and expect one to respect it. It seemed to me to be tidy, and I thought the Council of State has had clear answers. Actually, I just want to invite the Center Party and the Labour Party to talk to the Progress Party to implement a tighter predatory policy, as they say. It is the Progress Party that can contribute to this. I have said that I would like to invite the Center Party to coffee. Mossleth I don't think there's any sense in inviting. I can invite Marit Arnstad or others in the Center Party to a coffee shop, and also the Council of State, because I think we have something to talk about when it comes to predatory policies ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1495	There has once again been a quite ordinary and traditional predatory game debate in Stortinget, I have followed many of them. I do not feel that anyone has been getting such ears out in this debate – on the contrary, but there are some who have tried to point out that the Progress Party was responsible for the political majority that has been responsible for the last eight years, and that was also responsible for our Robbery Administration. But I'll leave it. I just want to take the floor to give honor to the government and the state council, because I think the only way to balance the conflict between predators and the grazing industry is to have a consistent approach to predatory game management. I believe that what the Council of State refers to through this debate and the answers given here now are a consistent approach that we need. There have been shortcomings in the last eight years — precisely the consistent approach. So I am pleased to hear that the Council of State very clearly stresses that you will follow up the stock targets set by the Storting – not by the government, but by the Storing through conciliation on conciliation, where the challenge has actually been the follow-up of the stock targets set in the Storing. Then I think there is reason to give tribute to the government and the council for the follow-up of it. If we are to gain confidence in management, it is absolutely necessary that a consistent approach to the stock targets set in the Storting should be implemented. I think the government in that way has started very well. And I also underline in the case of wolves in the wolf zone: it was underlined by the majority when we last set the stock targets, that the management also applies in the wolf zone. If not, the wolf zone would end up as a reserve. It didn't want the bulk of the population, and you were very clear about it through Storting's treatment. I think it's good that we have a government council that follows it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1504	I have to ask the representative Sve to stick to the facts in this matter instead of driving a vision of my mood or excitement. I think that's completely untimely. The entire centre party’s large-scale group is very satisfied with the content of the Hurdal platform in terms of the predatory game policy and its intensification. Personally, I would have liked to have seen predatory policies under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Minister Sandra Borch, but the Hurdal platform is so clear on how the policy should be that in practice it doesn't matter. We're going to have a more restrictive predatory policy and give more power to the predators. I would like to thank both the Council of State and the Committee for a good debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1513	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. Case No. 9 and 10 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1545	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1552	I would like to thank the representatives of the Progress Party for the proposal and the rest of the Committee for the good comments on the matter. The sky-high electricity prices that households and business have experienced in the last few months have forced us to turn all the stones and look at how we can reduce the bill to people. That is why I am very pleased that the government quickly created a support scheme for households that covers 80 pst. of the flow exceeding a price of 70 øre. The same scheme has been given to culture and volunteering, as well as agriculture, which was discussed at the latest today. I am also very pleased that the government has announced that one should look at the export agreements of the previous government, with the Progress Party at the head, included, in order to prevent us from importing European prices on our pure hydropower. Last week the government put down an energy commission to work until December, which is to assess the power policy and how we can protect ourselves against high electricity prices in Europe. I have a great deal of understanding that the representatives of the Progress Party believe that we should look at the network lease with the aim of reducing it. It's easy to get sympathy for the proposal, but I'm afraid it will do more damage than it will do to the sky-high power bills. The network lease is arrears payment for investments in network access across the country, and in the years to come, we will depend on electrifying transport and industry, both to increase Norwegian competitiveness and to achieve climate objectives, not least in order to deliver stable and reasonable power to households and business. This requires the development of networks to places where network capacity is weak today, such as: ferries, ports, roadside etc. It increases the need for equity and economic muscles of the network companies. Network companies are subject to extensive regulation. It is the RME, the Energy Regulatory Authority, which lays down rules on the regulation of permitted income, not the network companies themselves. This shall be determined in such a way as to cover over time the costs of operating and depreciation of networks and to provide a reasonable return on invested capital. The Progress Party proposes to reduce interest rates. There is no professional basis for changing the method that sets the level of the reference rate. I am afraid of such a proposal – in addition to the energy crisis and high electricity bills – will ensure that we do not expand the necessary grid capacity in the country, which we sorely need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1565	By 2030, it will need to be invested between 60 and 100 billion. kr in the central network and make significant upgrades and reinforcements to the regional power grid. It is necessary to invest more in the Norwegian power grids, but at the same time it is essential that we make the best use of the networks we have. The alternative would be that the investments, and therefore the network rental we all pay, would be higher than they would otherwise have been. This is the background to the new network lease model proposed from 1 January to be introduced from 1 July onwards. Many have feared the introduction of a new network lease model because they believe it will lead to higher network leases. However, the NVE calculated that 90 pst. households will experience small outlays of network rental changes. For the last 10 pst. there may be a greater impact if they do not change behaviour. It is important to stress that the purpose of the new network lease model is not to increase the revenues of the network carriers but to streamline consumption peaks, so that the need to invest in networks becomes less, everything else alike. Glitar Energy has run a pilot with a new network lease model with over 80000 customers, and their experience is well in line with NVE's calculations. Glitter has also illustrated the purpose of a new network lease model in a good way. They have shown that if everyone who lives in Drammen goes to an electric car and the cars are to be charged at the same time, when people come home from work, the network capacity in Drammen must be doubled. It costs billions. On the other hand, if the electric car drivers charge at times of the day when the capacity of the network is good, the current network is sufficient. Today, it is also the case that the network in an area needs to be dimensioned for those households with the highest power output, while the bill is borne by the entire neighborhood. Today’s network rental model therefore has an unfortunate social profile and leads to poor use of the network and, over time, higher network rental than necessary. The right considers that it is necessary to evaluate a new network lease model once it has been introduced and, if necessary, to make adjustments if it is found to have unintended effects or to be particularly adverse in some areas. However, the principle of a model that contributes to the good use of the network and, equally, lower network rental over time is good and should be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1580	Both matters we are now dealing with, deal with web rental. It is natural in a time of high electricity prices that people also react to high network rentals. We know that there is a big difference in the rentals around the country, and I am glad that the Hurdals platform government has clear ambitions in this regard. Here it is stated that a smoothing system will be put in place that will contribute to smoother network rental throughout the country. At the same time, robust measures shall be designed to reduce high electricity costs including lower electricity charges, increased housing support, enhanced consumer rights and increased generation of power. Several of these points have already been fulfilled or announced by the government that they will comply. Among other things, they have reduced the electricity charge by 2.9 billion. kr, they have submitted an effective electricity support scheme as a result of the extreme prices in winter, and support schemes have been put in place for culture, sport, agriculture, growth and students as well as for increased housing support. In the extraordinary situation, I don't think people are thinking about the different components of the power bill, but rather about the total. Without government action, this total had been significantly higher than what people already experience today. There is no doubt that there are good intentions in the proposals, but they appear, we should say, counter-productive, all the time it is actually the network companies themselves that fix the network rental for their customers within a income framework established by the Energy Regulatory Authority in line with the requirements for tariffs resulting from the Energy Act with regulations. This has been the case for the last 30 years, and so the revenues from the network lease should not be higher than that which the network companies are allowed to pay from their customers. Before Christmas, the Government Parties and the SV agreed that the requirement for power-based tariffs in the distribution system shall not enter into force on 1 January but this summer. That postponement came for two reasons. Customers did not know the system well enough and were therefore not prepared in a way that made smart power management possible. With a postponement, the power companies now have a better opportunity to inform customers about how to make arrangements to reduce their bill and control their power consumption, and I expect the energy companies to do so. At the same time, we cannot imagine that the scheme also has a good purpose: to give incentives to streamline the electricity consumption so that the capacity of the grid is better used, which is best for all of us consumers and for industry, and thus to keep investments in the grid down and not beyond what is necessary. The revenue of network operators will not be altered by the imposition of such tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1593	It has our – and are – high current prices in the country. They are composed of a stream price and a high network charge. The network and mains network in Norway is a monopoly area, and it is a very important service for its inhabitants, similar to, for example, a monopoly area. water and sewerage and renovation. Water and sewerage and renovation are governed by very strict laws. One is not allowed to have either a return or an exchange, it should be a self-cost, as low a cost as possible, and a strong transparency for the inhabitants and businesses to see that they pay for what they actually get. But when it comes to nets and rents, you can base a reference interest rate of 5.59 pst, which is sky-high above what Oslo Børs and others have to do. One says that there is such a risk of building networks – in a monopoly system where only one sends the bill to consumers, depending on the cost. There's no risk at all. There it is 5.59 pst. at the reference rate, while the interest rate on all other risk operations in Norway is at a completely different level and much lower. Here's something wrong. The fact that industry and its inhabitants do not stand up to the Internet rent and the way it is organised seems very strange. We want to look at the models that are available to bring down the reference rate. We've sent questions to the ministry about the importance of adjusting the reference rate for the population. If you bring it down to 2 pst, the population will save 5.2 billion. kr per year. This is significant in a situation where power prices are sky high. Everyone is talking about the importance of power support schemes when there is a crisis, like now, but one has to do something with the problem. One has to do something about the challenge to get stable power in the future. When it comes to on-line rents, it should be a monopoly system that was such that one could not take exchange, and that it was self-cost for what it costs the inhabitants. It is said that one must invest so enormously many billions in the future. Yeah, but why take an exchange? An argument is that you must increase your online payment. At Møre we got an invoice from the network company with several hundred bills in increments because of extra costs, while they charge for exchange. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get It's a monopoly, but it's not monopoly anyway. It's a system where one has to pay what it costs, but one doesn't pay what it costs anyway. One pays sky high above it. We can't have it like that. We need a system where we pay for what is being built, and nothing more. There must be a monopoly system similar to water and sewerage. That would be the ideal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1606	Would the representative like to make his own proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1611	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1616	The representative Frank Edvard Sve then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1621	Before Christmas, the SV got an idea that the changes proposed in the network tariffs would not be introduced from 1 January 2022. There is something that most of the network companies, based on the available information, have corrected. We have now also asked the government to make proposals for changes to these network tariffs, which make it not less profitable to invest in energy efficiency improvement or self-production of electricity. At the same time, there is a need to balance the peaks of consumption in the network where possible. It will save society from unnecessary costs associated with the deployment of networks, and it will not least save nature from unnecessary interference. The proposal that the government decided to introduce last year has been accepted by several professional environments and stakeholder organisations, and in reality that change has not been at a wide consultation either. That is why we hope that the government will now use spring to develop a new proposal for a net tariff model, which takes into account that it is easy to understand, that it is possible to adapt and not to weaken incentives for energy efficiency. That is why we are promoting this proposal today: ‘The size calls on the government to draw up and promote a proposal for a model for network rental that is possible for a consumer to adapt, does not weaken the incentive for energy efficiency improvement and ensures the least possible deployment of networks.’ The sky-high electricity prices we are currently struggling with are due to the fact that we have left a critical infrastructure such as electricity and price formation on electricity to the market, and subsequently also to the EU. In the short term, these prices must make us compensate households directly, as it is done in winter, but in the longer term we must have changes in the Energy Act that ensure more popular control of the electricity market, and durable solutions that prevent the fluctuations we have seen. An area under strong regulation is the investment and operation of the network companies. It is essential to be able to develop enough green industry to secure jobs and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to build enough networks and connections, but we also need not expand more than is necessary. Nor are we opposed to investigations into changes in how the costs of the network are covered, and a power crisis, as we have seen, is charging both households and businesses with unreasonable electricity prices, but also with grid rentals. I'll bring up the proposal that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1637	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1643	This winter, the introduction of a rush-time charge on electricity, or so-called power-based tariffs, was announced. It would be more expensive to charge the electric car at the time when most people use electricity, but also to shower before work or make dinner after work. It was a conversion that would have affected unfairly – hit those who must be at work when the job starts. The changes encountered very great resistance, rightly. It's flammable to ask people to use power at night instead of in the day. Although it's very nice if people let their electric cars in the night hours, we can't impose a collective punishment on anyone who needs to cook coffee or take the dishes at special times of the day. Fortunately, the introduction of an alcohol duty has been postponed, but we in Red are concerned that it will still come, without any necessary and good changes. We therefore propose to bury the change permanently. But even without a charge, people can get an increase in their online rentals now. The reason for this is actually the electricity price crisis, because the costs associated with the network loss have also increased for the network carriers – not because the loss itself is higher in kilowatt-hours, but because the price they have to pay for the loss follows the market price. If you think it is confusing and illogical, it is, because the electricity market is confusing and illogical – and unfair. So when the electricity prices go up, the households pay double the price. They pay both for the electricity and more for the network rental because the electricity is more expensive. It's unreasonably, and it also helps to weaken web rental as a sort of scheme of hard work. We learn that the web needs to be upgraded, and that it costs money. That's probably true, but we in Red are very surprised that this hasn't happened before. So instead, we've used the revenues from the rentals to build foreign tables, which export our cheap energy out of the country, and which import unstable power prices in return. The NRK has also documented that the network lease companies have taken over over payment in network leases over many decades. There are now several proposals on the table to make it more difficult to take over payment, and Red will support these proposals. In the last week, the government has both launched an energy commission and said that they will engage in dialogue with the EU on the foreign tables. We think that in Red is very good, but it is still too non-binding if the goal is to ensure security of supply and reasonable prices at home. That is why we are today promoting a number of proposals which oblige the government to put action ahead of words, to renegotiate concession agreements, to regulate exports much more stringently and not least to clarify that the mandate of the Energy Commission should also be to ensure reasonable and predictable electricity prices for households and businesses. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1662	The representative Marie Sneve Martinussen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1667	We are fully engaged in the electrification of society. It's a prerequisite for achieving our climate goals, and it means once again that we need both energy saving, smarter energy use, more environmentally friendly power generation and, not least, grids to transport the power. Statnett has invested over 50 billion in the last decades. kr in a strengthening of the network in order to improve its ability to handle the green shift. The job is not yet done, and it is important that Statnett and local network companies continue to work to strengthen the network. At the same time, any network deployment will lead to natural interventions, and it costs money. We must therefore invite – everything we can – to increase local production and consumption of energy. We have to get a more offensive bet on solar energy. Although wintertime has fewer sun hours than many other countries, Norway, with its cooler climate, is actually spectacularly well suited for solar energy production. We also need to reduce the energy demand where we can, and to improve the efficiency of energy use in buildings. There has been criticism of the new network lease model because it does not stimulate this. In December last year, the Green Party therefore promoted a proposal to postpone the regulation on efficiency-based tariffs and that the government should come back with a new proposal for a network lease model. The proposal was not adopted. We in the Green Party do not therefore believe that we are in Norway's aim to find the best model of network rental – a model that is capable of both securing a stronger network and stimulating energy efficiency while at the same time being a simple enough model that can actually be understood, which is of course democratically important in itself, given the importance of electricity to our everyday lives, as we hear from the debate today. The Greens are therefore promoting proposals today to identify new models that can respond better to the challenges, rather than simply reversing today's new system. We also propose, together with several other parties, to explore the consequences of adding the increased costs of grid loss, upgrade and maintenance of the grid to the state instead of to consumers. And we suggest demanding that the online companies immediately repay the debts they have to their customers, through reduced network rentals in 2022. With that, I will address the proposal to the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1684	The representative Kristoffer Robin Haug has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1689	The Energy Regulatory Authority, RME, lays down annual income frameworks that determine how much network operators can collect through the network lease. In addition to covering the costs of operating and depreciating the network, the network shall provide a reasonable return on invested capital, given the efficient operation, use and development of the network. The size of the network companies’ income framework is determined by several factors – the reference rate is one of them. The reference rate shall reflect the economic risk of the owners. An appropriate level of the reference rate is essential to ensure that the necessary investments are carried out. A change in the method that determines the level of the reference rate requires a professional basis to change the interest rate. I can neither see that there is any technical basis for the RME to change the reference rate or reduce the income framework of the network companies on a general basis. RME is constantly developing economic regulation, including finding the right level of the reference rate. The Energy Act does not allow the Ministry to instruct the independent energy regulatory authority to decide on the income framework. With regard to the owner's access to dividends in the network companies, I would like to stress that the amount of dividends paid by the owners does not affect the income framework of the network companies, nor does it affect the network rental. What is crucial for the level of network rental is how much the company invests, how much it spends on operation and maintenance, and how effectively the company performs these tasks. We are in a time when our energy systems are in transition and greenhouse gas emissions are being reduced. Well-functioning power grids are crucial in this effort. The Government will ensure that the State assumes responsibility for putting infrastructure into place where it is needed and when it is needed, including that the capacity of the mains network is strengthened throughout the country and that the concessional treatment period is shortened. Our power grid is financed by those who use it, both those who use electricity, and those who produce and supply electricity to the grid. This covers the costs of expanding, operating and maintaining the mains power supply. We're not just in an extraordinary situation with high power prices now; we're also in a period that will last longer, where increasingly our society electrifies. Then we have to make the best possible use of the mains power supply we already have. Then we avoid unnecessary costs, which are borne by ordinary people and businesses, and we avoid network deployments that can be controversial and conflict-filled. The purpose of power-based tariffs is therefore to provide incentives to balance electricity consumption so that the capacity of the mains power grid is better used. Power-based tariffs shall also provide for a fairer distribution of network costs between customers. The total revenue of the network companies will not be altered by this. In line with the agreement between the government parties and SV on the Stortinget, the Ministry has decided to postpone the entry into force of the regulation on power-based tariffs. Entry into force is set at 1 July 2022. As the majority of the committee also points out, it is important that the network companies provide customers with good information, and I will follow this up with the network companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1710	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1715	The signatures have not yet been given an explanation of what causes one to have a reference interest rate of 5.59 pst in an area where there is almost no risk at all, versus other activities, where there is a large contribution to construction both locally and over the network. and, in addition, can make dividends in a monopoly system. Why does my government council say that a reference interest rate of 5.59 pst., provided the basis I'm now, is reasonable and justifiable to keep the rent on the web as low as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1720	It is the Energy Regulatory Authority that lays down rules on the regulation of permitted income. The Energy Act does not allow the Ministry to instruct the independent energy regulatory authority to exercise the powers conferred on it. There must be a professional basis to change the method that sets the level of the reference rate. I cannot see that there is such a basis. An overly low reference rate would result in a risk that the necessary investments would not be carried out, whereas an overly high reference rate would lead to a risk of over-investment in the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1725	My question to the Council of State is about the government, now that we were exposed to the introduction of the new network tariffs, will use the opportunity that has now arisen to look at changes to the regulation proposed by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1730	We're spending that time introducing online tariffs, which are now suspended until 1 July, well. Among other things, we need to: have dialogue with the network operators to ensure that the necessary information and what is needed comes out. In that dialogue, I think it's natural that we also look at whether something is going to be done, but I think it's way too early to advance what it might be, and we're going to have that dialogue with the carriers first.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1735	I'm interpreting that positively. I interpret it as if the government would look at possible changes, and it is natural to have contact with the online companies. Then I would like to ask whether the government also has contact with the consumer organisations and environmental organisations, in order to understand how this can best be done, so that new network tariffs do not make it less profitable to invest in energy efficiency and self-production of electricity, as the previous government's proposal would have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1741	The Ministry and I have had meetings with several organisations where this has been a topic, including, among other things, The electric car association. We will also have meetings on this in the future, including. with 14 different organisations in less than that long.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1746	Finally, the Council of State has presented the Energy Commission and congratulates it. But at the same time as that Commission was presented, the Council of State said that it is the government itself, not the Commission, who is going to investigate the current price crisis that we are now facing – or the ‘situation’, as the government calls it. Red believes it is absolutely necessary that the mandate of the Energy Commission also includes looking at the current electricity price crisis and how it can be resolved, including regulating the market and exports. Red has for a long time proposed both the maximum price of electricity and export reduction, which I am absolutely sure the Council of State is familiar with, and these requirements also come from the grassroots in the Council of State's own party. So my question is, will the Council of State ensure that the independent energy commission also looks at today's situation, as we propose?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1751	I share the opinion of Snee Martinussen that it is important that the Commission looks at this, and that is precisely why we have announced that we will have an external review of the power situation and the reasons why we have come there, and that it will be part of the work of the Energy Commission. But I also want us to be relatively fast on the ball. Therefore, the Energy Commission has been given a relatively short time frame, and therefore we have warned that in the current situation it will be evaluated and reviewed externally – and it will be included in the basis on which the Energy Commission will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1756	Then I understand that there are a little different people who are going to look at a little bit different things, and given it: what I'm most concerned about is that you evaluate all the possibilities to solve what's both an acute situation now, and which is actually expected to lead to high power prices for a long time to come. I've understood it so that the Council of State is quite open to consider different approaches and turn all the stones, as it's said to do, and then my question concerns these grips and e.g. maximum price of electricity. Is there something you need to look at, or is it put in the drawer before you have – I kept saying – opened and designed the drawer, so that the Energy Commission and the government, respectively, are going to do their different work to look at this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1761	I just want to respond to something: there are not different people who are going to look at a little different things. A broad mandate has been given to the Energy Commission, but they will have an up-to-date knowledge base on which to base their assessments. That is why we want to provide them with an up-to-date knowledge base on this. They shall also carry out the work to be done by the Electricity Network Committee, which delivers its call on 15 June. I do not want to take the lead, beyond what is stated in the mandate, on what the Energy Commission is going to look at. They're independent, and what they do, they're going to end up in a NOU. So when it comes to commenting on individual proposals, before they have done that work: I do not want to add any leads to what is already described in the mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1766	The chord shift has been completed. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1773	I took the floor for an explanation of vote for the Workers' Party's part on the proposals promoted by Red, but first of all on that matter: whether or not to introduce impact tariffs. That's the principle. I think, like the representative Nikolai Astrup, that there are good reasons to make the best use of the infrastructure that is already there. It's going to benefit the inhabitants and the electricity customers over time that we're able to bring down the costs. It will be that the one that takes out the most power at a certain time determines the dimensioning of the network, and it must in some way also be involved and pay for it. It's wise, and I think it makes sense for us to follow that path. So to the proposals from Red, which are not really about this matter, but about something quite different: there are actually two eight proposals we are dealing with in the committee already, among other things. limiting exports. They are being discussed there, so I am somewhat surprised that Red chooses to promote these proposals in this case, and that they are given the opportunity to do so. I would really recommend that Red should forward them to the Committee so that the Committee could deal with them in parallel with the proposals already submitted by the Red Party and the Progress Party. I assume that it does not win, so I will briefly explain why the Labour Party will vote against proposals No. Six, seven, eight. Proposals Nos. 6 and 7 are already mentioned by the government. It's a dialogue and a review they've already started. In my opinion, it would be unnatural for the Storting to go in and decide, since it has already been communicated so clearly that the government actually does. So to proposal No. 8, which states that one must instruct the Commission to enter into the mandate to submit measures to ensure reasonable and predictable electricity prices in Norway: then I would ask Red to read the full prerequisite for the Energy Commission. It is precisely that one should come up with measures to ensure that we get reasonable and predictable energy prices in Norway, not just for households, but for industry and business, so that we can implement the green shift and not least ensure that we get safe, good industrial jobs in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1784	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1801	Is it possible that the government would write a statement together with the Russian Government, with a text that means that Norway admits that the Nobel Prize for Sakharov destroyed relations with Russia, that we commit ourselves to respecting Russia's annexation of Crimea and territorial interests in Ukraine, that we understand Russia's interest in repressing the opposition, and that we will not support anything contrary to the interests of the Putin regime? I don't think so, but such a joint declaration, or normalization agreement, has our government with China. In this Joint Declaration, the Government of Norway and China agree that the 2010 Nobel Prize for Liu Xiaobo was the reason for poor relations between the countries, and then the declaration states that the Norwegian Government commits to support one-China policy, respect China’s territorial integrity, respect China’s core interests and do not support anything contrary to China’s core interests, etc. Everyone knows what these specific formulations mean. This means that the government of Norway will support the demands of the Chinese government on Taiwan, its repression in Hong Kong and East Turkey, the occupation of Tibet, etc., and not to support any opposition or irritating the regime of China in any way. The declaration is a one-sided poem on what Norway commits itself to. It contains no obligation for China, and Norway has no such declaration with any other country. Yesterday, Minister of Foreign Affairs Huitfeldt told the VG that this is a political declaration, not an agreement, and expressed a wish for broad cooperation between Norway and China. But the declaration does not involve any ties. On the contrary, the normalisation agreement has given the opportunity to discuss a number of issues with China, including human rights. It is violent to claim that the wording of the Joint Declaration does not contain any bindings. After the joint declaration was written, the Solberg government was very low on various examples of China's violation of human rights and international rules, and as you know, they would not meet their old friend Dalai Lama when he was in Oslo. The profile of the big government has so far been relatively low, too, and while the human rights situation in China has become much worse. But the most important thing is that the Joint Declaration is the basis for Norway now negotiating a free trade agreement with China. It is indisputable which signal this sends – nationally and internationally. China imposes as a condition for a free trade agreement that Norway does not say things that irritate China. And by accepting the text of the Joint Declaration, Norway’s governments show that they are willing to sidestep our key principles and not comply with our international obligation to criticise abuses, accept and remain silent about China’s violations of human rights and on common rules internationally in order to provide Norway with favourable market access to China. This, therefore, strongly contests the Foreign Minister. We say what we want, she says. That is good, but why does it serve the interests of Norway to have a joint declaration that everyone perceives so strongly different from the Minister for Foreign Affairs claims to be the real meaning of the declaration? And why does the government not distance itself from a statement that puts Norway in such a bad light, if the statement does not really place any restrictions on Norway's ability to criticise China? And is it so that in the free trade negotiations with China Norway actually does what we should do, namely to demand human rights, labour rights, environmental and climate principles, international rules of play, etc. as Norway’s prerequisites for concluding a trade agreement? If the government actually does this, then we know that we risk China interrupting the negotiations and refusing to enter into a free trade agreement. That is why the question is: Will the Foreign Minister take a clear position on the oppressed groups in China, and will it be open to cancel the 2016 normalisation agreement and, if necessary, break the ongoing free trade negotiations with China?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1824	In the Hurdal platform, the government is clear that we will cooperate with China along a Nordic-European line on common interests and stand up for Norwegian social values and international human rights. I agree with the representative that human rights are under pressure in China. I do not agree that Norway does not take an open view of this. We have done so many times, in the UK, in the media, in the UN and in opinions in the EU. Human rights are an important part of the relationship with China. The situation is serious, especially for Uighurs and other minorities, and the development of Hong Kong is worrying. We have a clear line: our policy is a combination of dialogue and clear diplomacy, public criticism, multilateral engagement and project support, and close cooperation with like-minded countries. We have established an international framework in the field of human rights, a framework that the international community has spent a lot of post-war time building up. These are conventions and institutions to ensure universal human rights are respected. It is important, and therefore Norway is also actively working to maintain this framework. China is the world's most populous country and the world's second largest economy. Important global issues cannot be solved without China's participation. At the same time, developments in China and the geopolitical backbone create challenges. We, Norway, must promote our interests and safeguard our values and our security in a clear and holistic way. We do this best by working closely with other countries, in particular our Nordic and European partners. The representative addresses the 2016 Joint Declaration between Norway and China. It is a political declaration, not an agreement. It does not imply any binding or restriction of Norway’s action space with regard to China. The declaration should be seen as the wish of the previous government to develop a broad relationship with China. It's a wish that this government supports. Norway is a clear and recognisable champion of human rights. We are drivers of international law and multilateral systems, and we are systematically working to protect our national security. All these tracks are important in our bilateral relations with other countries, including our relationship with China. A broad relationship with China also includes cooperation on major global challenges, such as climate and sustainability, where it is absolutely necessary to engage China. China stood in 2019 for 27 p.m. of global greenhouse gas emissions. China emits more greenhouse gases than all OECD countries combined, and without reinforced efforts, China’s emissions can continue to grow by 2030. It is in Norway's interest that China achieves results in the climate and environment field. Through professional cooperation, Norway has, among other things, contributed to the establishment of a national carbon market by China. We have also helped China to reduce emissions of mercury, black carbon and plastic into the sea. China has a different political system than us. Nevertheless, it is possible to have dialogue and cooperation — and we do — on issues such as workers’ rights, equality, fair distribution and climate. If we close the door to cooperation, we give ourselves the opportunity to contribute to reforms in China. The representative asks whether the free trade agreement negotiations with China will be interrupted because of the human rights situation in the country. We won't. The purpose of a trade agreement with China would be to improve the conditions under which Norwegian industry would operate. We will also have new meeting places to discuss trade policy and employee rights with Chinese authorities. We must promote Norwegian interests in a holistic way. This means promoting Norwegian business while protecting our national security and maintaining our values. It does not prevent us from defending and promoting human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1847	I am not in favour of interrupting relations with China. I am calling for a discussion on which Premises Norway is going to interact with China. And the Foreign Minister states that the normalisation that followed the Joint Declaration has provided opportunities to discuss human rights issues with China. That's good. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has also, in his speech now, underlined Norway’s concern about more issues related to China and, in previous replies to Nora Heyerdahl from the Green and Left Green parties, has stressed that Norway is taking a step away from China’s treatment of Lithuania and is concerned about the situation in Hong Kong. The opinions aren't exactly evocative, but they're statements. The problem is that this needs to be explained over and over again, because we have a joint declaration that everyone reads and understands in the same way, namely that Norway is dealing with some very strict commitments, dictated according to China's interests. These interests and what China doesn't want to be criticized for are one of the most oppressive, controlling and brutal regimes on earth. China's behaviour evolves in a way that is extremely worrying. It is precisely the behaviour of a country that Norway and other countries are obliged to point out, criticise and counteract, because it is important to support those who are being oppressed, because it is important to say from what is not accepted, and because it is in Norway’s own interest to be very clear that we are on the right side. Against our neighbouring country Lithuania, China’s regime is currently demonstrating the means they are willing to use against a country that exercises its more solar right to make its own choices in foreign policy. China’s violent bullying of Lithuania is an example that of course is also a message to Norway. It is pointed out by Lithuania in the government-controlled Global Times as a mouse, yes, even a fly, which can easily be killed. Norway is also known to be such a fly. It is therefore important that a very clear distance from the content of the Joint Declaration is marked. I wonder, for example. on the comments of the Council of State on the mass sterilisation of Uighur women in the Uighur regions, East Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1860	It is often that I disagree with the previous government parties, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, but to claim that they have made various commitments to Norwegian foreign policy over the eight years they have governed – in different constellations – through the normalisation agreement, I believe is wrong. It says nowhere that we're not allowed to annoy China, as Rasmus Hansson here puts it. It's a completely unreasonable criticism of members of previous governments from the last eight years. Nor is there anything that binds us to not addressing specific questions. I really don't understand why the representative has an interest in presenting it as having less room for action than what we still have. Then we have to admit that we're dealing a lot with China. The largest imports of goods come from the PRC. 13 pst. imports into Norway come from the PRC and 5 pst. of Norwegian mainland exports to China. If we're going to be involved in taking responsibility for a more renewable direction in China, I think we have very strong self-interests, both in terms of climate, and in other ways, in having Norwegian goods exported. There's a very strong focus on seafood, but some of what we export most of is machines and chemical industrial products. So we have an interest in helping to make the climate more important in China, and that they can participate in the green shift through the competence we have on renewable energy. It is clear that employee rights are crucial for this government. There are also issues that I have raised when I have met representatives of Chinese authorities in different contexts. As for the situation in Xinjiang, I'm very concerned about it. We've given that expression a number of times. China is also very familiar with our vision. We call on the Chinese authorities to comply with their international obligations, stop violations of human rights and give the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights unhindered access to China. Her ability to enter this province was also a topic when I had a meeting with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights not long ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1871	I agree with the interpellant that there are several aspects of the human rights situation in China that give cause for concern. This is not least true in the question of the situation of the Uighuras in the Xinjiang province, but it is also worth following, as Hong Kong is. I think it's important to say that when we get reports of arbitrary liberation of Uighurs and other minorities, and that we give clear notice that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and Human Rights must have free access to difficult regions. I feel it so that the current government largely follows up the policy we followed under the Solberg regime. It is likely to address human rights issues where this is best suited, and in such a way that there is the greatest chance of Norwegian views being heard. It is therefore important for me to remember that these questions were raised at several levels by the Solberg government, not least by the late Minister of Foreign Affairs Ine Eriksen Soreide. When China’s Foreign Minister visited Oslo in August 2020, the Foreign Minister raised the human rights issue. The same was true during the 2018 state visit. The Solberg government is urging Chinese government powers to respect human rights and to stop arbitrary liberation of Uighurs and other minorities. The then Foreign Minister, Eriksen Soreide, also asked China to withdraw the Security Act for Hong Kong. Eriksen Soreide also went out clearly on behalf of the government and attributed the data breach to the Stortinget in July 2021 actors in China. Norway has repeatedly taken up the situation in Xinjiang in the United Nations, alone and with other countries, both in the Geneva Human Rights Council, last March 15, 2021, and in the UN General Assembly. I also understand that Norway will follow up these calls under the current government, as the previous one did. For Norway, it should be a priority task to give clear feedback on our views on matters relating to freedom, democracy, the rule of law and other fundamental human rights. This must also apply when it comes to large and powerful countries like China. I would like to thank you once again for your contribution to raising these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1884	First of all, I would also like to start by thanking the representative Hansson for raising this important issue – Norway's relationship with and foreign policy line towards China. It is a subject that has been raised at several times, both through questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also through a Document 8 proposal, in which we have proposed diplomatic boycotts of the current OL in Beijing. Unfortunately, the Document 8 proposal will not be debated until Norwegian practitioners have collected all their medals, as Stortinget has not submitted to debate on our proposal until March, even if it was delivered well before Christmas, which we consider regrettable. In any case, we know that the matter has been dealt with by the Committee, and I note with disappointment that no party has so far supported Left's proposals on boycott. I'm most surprised because it was a possibility not to stand alone, but on the contrary to join an alliance with other countries with which we normally cooperate quite closely in the foreign field. Countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Denmark and several EU countries all refrain from travelling with authorities to Beijing. Like the winter sports team we are, we could use this opportunity to make a clear mark towards China and show that we don't want to accept using this kind of arrangement to take the focus away from gross human rights violations or to let the regime measure a glossy image of itself. It's a shame we can't take that debate here in the Storting until after the Olympics are over. The representative Hansson addressed the so-called normalisation agreement that the Right and Progress Party government had concluded with China. Although I and Left are also critical of the agreement, I think the most important thing is not what happens to the normalization agreement itself, but how a government interprets it. Just to underline it for our own part: when the Left joined the government, we did not see that agreement as a delimitation of what we could say when it was China, and I perceive that it is an interpretation that the Foreign Minister also shares. When it comes to the Free Trade Agreement, the Left and the Greens agree that it should not be concluded. It has too high a price. It's both about the human rights situation in China – which has been said a lot about, and which I think we're all deeply concerned about – and about the conclusion of an agreement of this kind now, will be seen as a feather in the hat of the Chinese regime. I would like to quote here the current Central Party representative of the Central Party, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, who said in August that he believes ‘it must be obvious that Norway should not conclude any free trade agreement with China’, and that he ‘believes it will arouse international surveillance if Norway enters into a free trade agreement with China now’, as it would be ‘a spring in the hat of the Chinese regime’. It's not always the Left Party and the Center Party is completely in line with foreign policy, but in this case we are. I could also think of using the opportunity to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The representative Hansson was so much in Lithuania, which is a country that has actively taken up protests against China and has been met with strong and, in our view, unparalleled reactions from China, which are deeply alarming for another small country like Norway. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if possible, to say something more about what Norway and the Norwegian Government are doing to support our poor neighbouring country Lithuania in the ongoing conflict they are currently having with China.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1899	Then the interpellation debate is interrupted because the Storting should go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1908	After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1911	Then it looks like the Storting is ready to go to voting. We start with voting in case No. 6-8 from Thursday 10 February, Agenda No 46.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1925	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lene Westgaard-Halle on behalf of the Right, Party of Progress, Red and Left proposal No 2, by Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left and Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 3, by Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party the proposals No 4–6, by Torgair Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 7, by Alfred Jens Bjørlo on behalf of the Left and the Greens proposal No 8, from Olug Vervik Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to make proposals to clarify its own value in criminal law and the destination of emergency law, so that the choice against animals is seen as more serious than damage to property.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1961	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for higher requirements for the transport of farmed animals in agriculture with a view to better animal welfare.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the regulation on the keeping of pigs to strengthen animal welfare requirements, including higher land, ground and root material requirements for pigs for slaughter and breeding.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more stringent animal welfare requirements in the regulation on the keeping of chickens and turkeys, including with the phasing out of fast-growing breeds in favour of breeds where the parent animals must not be subject to restrictions in feed, and where the animals do not get abnormal times as part of the crop.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e1988	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks for the following elements to be included in the work on a new stockpiling message on animal welfare: To determine and establish maximum levels of permitted mortality in salmon and smolt production far below the current level, to be determined on the basis of up-to-date professional criteria for acceptable suffering and mortality in salmon production populations. To identify the main causes of indifference and death in salmon production and to lay down specific requirements and measures to reduce these factors to an ethical and professionally acceptable level. This includes, inter alia, densities and other stress factors in rams, lice infestations, lice removal methods, diseases with more. Exploring and laying down new requirements for acceptable animal welfare and mortality as prerequisites for maintaining concessions and for being granted development concessions. High-suffering and mortality farms shall be warned and lost if not well-being and mortality are at acceptable levels during the next production cycle.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2013	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in the context of the report on animal welfare how farmers’ finances, time use and expertise affect animal welfare, and is proposing ways of compensating farmers for increased animal welfare requirements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2029	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right, from the front, from the red and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to increase the penalties for serious infringements of the Animal Welfare Act and to increase the fines for grossly negligent infringements of the Animal Welfare Act.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2046	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an animal welfare message based on up-to-date knowledge of animal welfare based on professional and factual circumstances. The communication should look at issues related to animal husbandry professionally and politically, and provide an overview of what we do well today, and whether there is something that can do differently and better in the future. There is a connection between human welfare and animal welfare. The notification should mention this.’;» The Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Progress Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2065	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2070	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2075	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2097	The Labour Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2140	The Labour Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2159	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Birgit Oline Kjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left and Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 2 and 3, by Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 4, from Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Enova contributes to shore-side power plants in the major cruise ports.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2186	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a case to Stortinget for how to provide sufficient power to Geirangerfjord by 2026.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a plan to help finance the supply of necessary power to Geiranger’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2208	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with a case to the Stortinget on how one can help the Stortinget’s decision to remove ship traffic from the World Heritage fjords may increase the value creation of tourism in Geiranger and Hellesylt.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2242	During the debate, Ola Elvestuen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Red, the Left, the Green and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate an external quality assurance exercise on the calculations of the socio-economic impact of a cable versus air voltage on the planned 420 kV route for transmission between Hamang in the municipality of Bærum and Smestad in the municipality of Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2264	The right, Progress Party and Red have notified subsidiary aid to the suspension. The Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2278	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2287	Case No. 1-3 is the second reading of legal acts and concerns legislative acts. 36-38. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2301	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Rødt proposal No 5, from Alfred Jens Bjørlo on behalf of the Left proposal No 6, from Hadle Rasmus Bjuland on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals for an application-based municipal compensation scheme, for a minimum of 1 billion. crowns, to compensate small and medium-sized enterprises with high electricity prices.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2333	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks that the electricity support scheme for the agricultural and greenhouse industries be based on a threshold of 35 øre per kW for consumption by agriculture and the horticulture industry for the months of December 2021 and January, February and March of 2022.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2348	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks that the electricity support scheme for the agricultural and greenhouse industries be based on a 50 øre per kW threshold for consumption for the agricultural and greenhouse industries for the months of December 2021 and January, February and March of 2022.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2367	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–3, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for electricity support for enterprises of the same model as for households.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests that the introduction of the CO 2 tax for the greenhouse industry be postponed to 2023 at the earliest and come back to the Stortinget with proposals to that effect at the latest in the context of the revised national budget.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for an application-based support scheme for agricultural and greenhouse operators using gas for heating purposes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2521	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sofie Marhaug on behalf of the Socialist Left, Red and Green Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Sofie Marhaug on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 4 and 5, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from Red. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the funds transferred from the network tariff to the Enova SF are made available in full for energy measures in households through the Enova SF.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to renegotiate the governance agreement between the State and Enova SF. Energy efficiency improvement and use of renewable energy related to construction for industry as well as households shall be the pillars of a new agreement. [[e.g. solar]] The leader of the new agreement shall be a socially equitable profile — with free energy advice — that ensures that all households of the country can make use of the aid scheme. In particular, priority shall be given to joint ventures, housing law and share apartments.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2555	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Greens and the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the renegotiation of the agreement with the Enova SF to include energy reduction targets in addition to greenhouse gas reduction targets, to extend the objective of achieving emissions reductions in industry and society beyond just supporting innovation, and to include the ETS sector in its area.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The deficit requests that funds which have not been transferred in previous years be repaid to households through Enova support in the current year.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2577	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the future, the government is asked to ensure that the funds currently transferred from the network tariff to the Enova SF are made available in full for energy measures in households’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2599	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2619	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Birgit Oline Kjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left, Left and Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 2 and 3, by Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Birgit Oline Kjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 6 and 7, by Kristoffer Robin Haug on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 by the Greens. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in the agricultural settlement for 2022 and the State budget for 2023 to prioritise measures to prevent predatory losses and to mitigate the conflicts between predators and grazing, including increased support for the grubbing-up, fencing, monitoring and use of breeds with natural defence instincts, as well as increased support for conversion to other land-based feeding in particularly predatory areas.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to wind up today’s politically appointed robbers’ names as they are organized today and to replace the names with a professional, unpolitical system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2659	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the planned pursuit of 24 wolves in the wolf zone.’ Red and Left have notified support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2676	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider shifting the administrative responsibility for predatory game from the Ministry of Climate and Environment to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2691	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to roll and reassemble the 2011 Robbery Agreement, and come back to the Storting with this, where the particular stock measure for all four predators, wolf, bear, gloupe and yerv, and for the royal eagle, is re-assessed with a focus on keeping the stock measurements.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a fresh assessment of the predatory game management against grazing and predatory game priority areas, with a particular focus on complying with the stock targets and on using the State’s nature oversight more targeted in this work, as well as better organisation and targeting of conflict mitigation measures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2714	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a case of increased stocking targets for wolves in Norway to 8 to 12 family groups, including border revirals, of which at least 6 are young in health care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2736	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2789	Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-15.ana.ud29e2801	No one else has signed up, and the debate on the subject is closed. 11 is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
