ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e100	The representative of Willfred Nordlund shall apply for parental leave from 1 February to 17 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Hans Gunnar Holand, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e128	The representative, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e133	On behalf of the representatives of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to make it easier for entrepreneurs, investors and employees from outside the EEA to establish and invest in Norway, including Norway. with a founding visa.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e138	The representative, Mari Holm Lønseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e143	On behalf of the representatives of Mahmoud Farahmand, Anne Kristine Linnestad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to provide a basis for routine visitation and examination of asylum seekers in connection with asylum registration.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e148	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 5 and 6 on today's maps have not been out in the regulatory time, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 4 will be treated as a whole. The cases are the second reading of laws and relate to legal acts 32–35.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e207	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 5 and 6 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e237	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e244	I would like to begin by thanking the Financial Committee for its cooperation on this matter, with short deadlines, which was almost observed on a large scale. I would also like to thank SV, who has negotiated with the government parties in the last week – first on the compensation scheme and the national compensation scheme, then on the proposals for funding in Prop. 51 S. We are now approaching the two-year anniversary of the coronal pandemic in Norway – two years completely out of the ordinary. The previous one and the new government have been working on bombs with the infectious diseases and their consequences. Before Christmas, new measures came in connection with the omicron variant of the virus. Almost immediately the government presented economic measures to people and industries that were hit again. This time, too, it was those who live by us meeting, who were hit financially: the food industry, hotels, the cultural industry and the transporters, to name a few. Many who have been licensed earlier in the pandemic were re-permitted, but many lacked the fright. They did so because the government, together with the social partners, came up with a rigorous wage support system, which was further reinforced by negotiations in the Stortinget. In addition, the national compensation scheme is now reintroduced. Norwegian economy is doing well, but there are many businesses and industries that are struggling after two years with pandemics and repeated infectious diseases. Last year, we saw that the activity in the Norwegian economy was resumed when the measures to prevent infection were reduced. It is said that each economic crisis is different from the previous one, and it can definitely also be said about the economic consequences of the coronary ape. Prior to the introduction of the new disease control measures in December, employment was higher than before the pandemic, and there was great optimism. This is why economic measures have been phased out over the last six months. Now we see that the rise in the economy has staggered a little bit in time, and that a powerful economic package is needed to ensure the best possible jobs through the period of new infection protection measures. At the same time, it is important to say that the compensation schemes for business should not last longer than necessary, as they also have unfortunate effects, with which we are all familiar. It's only been a few weeks since we adopted the state budget for 2022. That budget was well adapted to the fact that we are facing a demanding pandemic management in hospitals, in the municipalities and in the community. Nevertheless, we see that the rapid spread of infection by the omicron variant and the accompanying measures for the protection of infectious diseases make it necessary to propose new appropriations for the health care system. We see that the cost of vaccines and tests is significantly higher than we anticipated before the new virus variant – not least tests, as they are an important way back to a more normal everyday life. The size today makes sure that we are equipped for the next phase of the pandemic, where we have to live with high levels of infection, but where, through tests and increased preparedness, we ensure the necessary capacity in the healthcare system. Many of us believe that the pandemic is a potential difference machine. They are the ones with the lowest wages and the most uncertain jobs that are first outsourced. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are concerned that we should learn from this crisis and be better prepared next time, even if the next crisis is guaranteed to be different. That is why we believe that a sample should be set up to evaluate economic policy through the crisis, so that we next have more knowledge of what has worked, what has increased economic differences, and which measures most effectively secure jobs. We're also dealing with appropriations today to support people with the power bill, who, like the pandemic, hit them with at least from before. Therefore, the community shall establish a secure and fair safety network. Students with electricity costs will receive scholarships and all housing beneficiaries will receive increased support to get through this period. Today, through the government's proposals and then negotiations in the Grand Duchy, we also adopt a strong package for public transport. Lost ticket revenue gives many of us fear that the collective offer will be permanently weakened after the pandemic. Now we're proposing 1.5 billion. kr to ensure the offer, and we decide that the collective share will continue to rise. The Corona virus must not become a resting place in the face of the major challenges we face. The economic and social differences shall be reduced and climate objectives achieved. Through action in the ordinary budgets and through crisis management, the new bulk of population shows that the country is on a new political path. With that, I recommend the Committee's position, promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e269	The last two years have been a demanding time for very many, with both stringent and invasive measures to prevent infection. In such a situation, it is important that we work together, and the State has an extra important role to play in contributing both to the security and predictability of its citizens and to business. It is good to see that there is a broad consensus on this in Norway, although we may have discussions on both the device and the scope of the measures. The pandemic has made it necessary to establish compensation schemes for people and businesses affected by the pandemic and the measures taken by the authorities to deal with the spread of infection. At the same time, significant resources have been used to ensure good health care and vaccines for people and to facilitate the best possible functioning of society in a difficult situation. The Omicron variant has created a new wave of infection and made it necessary to re-establish many of the schemes that have previously worked in the pandemic. So on top of this, we have had exceptionally high power prices in South Norway this winter. I will not go into the scheme of neither the compensation scheme for electricity customers nor the scheme of the compensation scheme for business and the compensation scheme. We had that discussion on Friday, and we promoted our proposals in this regard. However, I would like to clarify that we are concerned that these arrangements should last as long as the pandemic or the power crisis requires it, but also no longer than that. It is a goal that we set up compensation mechanisms and other measures so that we can return to normal as soon as possible when the infection situation and the situation in the electricity market so warrant. We mainly support the measures proposed by the government in the proposal and the new measures proposed by the majority. Measures are needed to ensure vaccines and tests, adequate resources for health care and work in municipalities and a functioning infrastructure are widely agreed. There are some groups in society that notice the restrictive measures against infection more than others. Then I think in particular about children and young people, the elderly and people with mental disorders and volunteering. Our amendments have therefore mainly been linked to these groups and the need to provide additional assistance to those who are struggling the most. Strict measures to protect children and young people, students and the elderly experience more isolation and solitude. I record that the government is proposing measures for these groups. We want to strengthen this effort and propose to allocate 100 million. extra to health centres and school health services. These are targeted responses to children and young people who need additional follow-up. And then we're going to take 5 million. kr to the Auxiliary Phone, including funds for the Mental Health Youth Treasure. In the last two years, many have experienced that it may be difficult to maintain normal learning in a situation of increased use of digital education and smaller communities as a result of infection prevention measures. So we're suggesting that we take down 340 million. extra to measures to return to lost learning and to complete summer schooling. Summer school has proved to be an attractive offer for many, and we therefore believe that that opportunity must be available for the summer as well. Older people are a group that has been more vulnerable to infection and, for this reason, may also experience additional isolation and increased loneliness in the pandemic. So we want to make 25 million. DKK for measures to combat the loneliness of the elderly through the Dam Foundation. We hope that it can be a positive contribution, and that fewer have to experience solitude and isolation. Then we all hope that this pandemic will soon be over, and that the measures for the protection of infection can soon be history. At the same time, it is likely that we will have to live with the effects of the pandemic for a longer time and that efforts towards particularly vulnerable groups will become increasingly important. It is also essential that, as soon as the situation permits, we return to a more normal situation in the Norwegian economy. The last two years of action packages and crisis packages have been exceptional. We see that increased inflationary pressures and announced interest rate increases can quickly create a demanding private economic situation. It will also impose additional requirements on our priorities and arrangements for future budgets. As I said at the outset, we join in the main features of the proposition and the changes from the majority, with the reinforcements we have proposed especially for children, young people and the elderly. With that, I'll take up the suggestions that the Right is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e299	The representative, Helge Orten, then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e304	In this case, the government – and the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV join – propose strong measures to address both the power crisis and the coronary crisis. There is a number of people who want to use politics. At the bottom of the case, there's a proposition. In Stortinget there is an agreement of 26 billion. kr. To comment on the agreement and the treatment at Stortinget, it is good that you have developed some clear priorities when dealing with the issue in Stortinget. Firstly, one has joined all the proposals of the government, and secondly, a clear mental health and collective focus in the state. When it comes to power, a priority has a hard-to-use group. A majority who have the ability to prioritise is important after eight years when the goal of how good a budget agreement has been has not been how powerful he has been, or how focused he has been, but how long he has been. Koronacrisa is in a difficult phase both in terms of infectious diseases and in terms of economics. When it comes to infectious diseases, it's like opening up Norway in a situation of rising infection. It's harder than it was when Bent Höie put down the ban on visiting the cabin in the neighbouring municipality, and it's harder than when Abid Raja and his dance moves celebrated that the pandemic was over. Now we're going to open up while we're at the infectious path. The same applies to the financial measures. It's harder. There are many industries that are doing well. For other industries, it's darker than ever. We have a situation of pressure in the economy, and we have a situation where the pandemic has been more or less permanent or at least more prolonged. It requires other measures, and it is harder to deal with than it was before. We also hope that we will see the end of the pandemic, and then it is important that the majority say that when one is above this, one should put down a selection and evaluate the impact of the financial measures. We can learn from what we've done. We've made a lot of mistakes and we're going to make a lot of mistakes, but we need to learn from errors. That's what the plural points to. One thing that can now be concluded with is that there is a need to strengthen preparedness in our country. Therefore, it is good that a total emergency commission was set up on Friday. That's why it's good that this in the proposition is 200 million. kr to infectious disease protection equipment for a national emergency storage facility. Therefore, it is good that a reference to the possibility of a national production of vector equipment. The conclusion of contingency agreements with Norwegian producers shows that this is a government that takes emergency response seriously and does not bet on the market to sort out everything in any case. The power crisis and the coronary crisis are two crises that need to be dealt with. In the power crisis, there are now short-term measures. We are correcting the consequences of the long-term policy that has been pursued, and it was in the last turn and at last little that the Right and Advance Party were replaced. One has gone from a government that didn't see the power price, which wanted more expensive power, to a government that clearly states that cheap power is a target. It is also the case that for the Koronacrisa we will follow the measures in. I would like, both in the case of the coronary crisis and the power crisis, to close the article by thanking all those who are sorry, all who care about sending an e-mail to the Stortinget, whether he is nice or angry in form, all who send a message on Facebook, whether he is nice or angry in form. It's important that we get input from individuals, it's important that we get input from companies, and it's important that we get input from organisations. It may be hard to stand in it, but we have to act like politicians to listen to it. We have to understand our country, and we only do that if we listen. I feel that the matter we are dealing with today is a result of the fact that we have a government that has listened and that has acted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e323	The main decisions on compensation schemes and wage support were taken on Friday last week. The appropriations are now adopted, one and a half months after the government introduced very strict measures on 13 December last year. As the Progress Party has pointed out several times, it is not predictable for everyone affected by intervention that the compensatory measures will be adopted in the Grand Duchy too long. Extremely high electricity prices have become a major or at least equal problem now for households, sports and different industries as consequences of the pandemic. Many have major challenges in coping with electricity bills. This applies not only to those who now receive partial compensation, but also to very many businesses and industries. In combination with the pandemic and high cost growth, there are many different actors who are really struggling in everyday life, and companies report major challenges if the situation is not normalised quite quickly. The Progress Party therefore considers that the Storting should adopt the maximum price of electricity as a price-regulating crisis measure pending the balancing of the electricity market and measures are in place to increase power generation. Electrification and tripled CO 2 tax, which the government wants to implement, are at least not measures that will contribute to a lower price of energy. The municipal compensation scheme has been effective and targeted with local adaptations, and the Progress Party proposes to strengthen it by 500 million. in addition to the Government's proposals. This is a contingency mechanism that can be used, if necessary, without losing time if the situation implies the need for new national or local measures for the protection of infection. Travel life, hotels, aviation etc. are industries which have been severely affected during the pandemic and which will take a long time to come back in an almost normal situation. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes to halve the lowest VAT rate to 6 pst. from 1 March. I note that the Minister of Finance, in his answer to questions about the impact of this reduction, believes that it is a small targeted measure, which we believe is wrong, because it is a targeted measure against industries that have lost all customers and all turnover for periods of time. Otherwise, the Minister of Finance meant the same thing as us just a few months ago. In addition, the Progress Party proposes that the air passenger fee should not be reintroduced and that the Government consider a guarantee or compensation scheme for aviation. It will provide predictable framework conditions for air traffic and help maintain competition for the benefit of Norwegian customers. Unfortunately, the Central Party has forgotten its previous promises in this area as well. Let's hope that the Storting should not treat more crisis packages related to the Korona, and that the situation quickly stabilizes for the benefit of people and businesses. However, the infection is high and can get even higher before it slows down. The pressure on the healthcare system has been extremely high throughout the pandemic, and there are deficiencies in our preparedness and capacity to handle a pandemic. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes to strengthen the intensive capacity of hospitals by 500 million. kr in addition to the Government Parties and SV have agreed. In addition, we ask the government to develop a motivational system to recruit intensive nurses who are now working in other professions to relieve the pressure on the health care system. This, combined with more places of study and the follow-up to the nurse's vow, will make our health care even better prepared to deal with future crises. I would also like to refer to the Progress Party's proposal to use the available capacity of private health professionals in the final phase, both in order to avoid the suspension of non-corona-related operations and medical treatment, and in order to relieve infection management, testing and medical notifications due to indications of infection. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e345	The representative Hans Andreas Limi then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e350	I want to thank the Labour Party and the Centre for the good negotiations that have given an even better, more social and greener crisis package. Once again, we have been able to find good solutions together here in Stortinget. Then I also hope that this is the last time we have to negotiate a crisis package. How the pandemic develops is not possible for us to know. However, in the same way as we need to move into another, more long-term strategy for the management of infectious diseases and measures, we need to move on to another strategy for dealing with the economic, social and human consequences of these. In close proximity to two years, interventional measures for the protection of infection have been followed by various economic compensation schemes for businesses and workers. Extraordinary health expenditure has been allocated additional appropriations, and ad hoc measures such as help telephones for young people and visiting programmes for the elderly as well — and rightly so — and some of them have been put in place in the negotiations here in the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, if we look around us now, it is not the acute crisis packages that are most needed, but long-standing economic priorities to repair many of the consequences of the pandemic and the weaknesses it has clearly shown us. It must be a great paradox that, over these two years, we have spent more money on crisis aid to business than on strengthening health care – despite the fact that it is the capacity of the latter that is a direct cause of some of the shut-down we are now experiencing again. I think a lot of people ask big questions about that. That is why it will be particularly important in the future to give priority to our well-being. Manning needs to be increased in kindergartens and schools, in care for the elderly, in child protection and in hospitals. We need to have more teachers and nurses, but we also need to have more people in the team to do other tasks, thereby releasing capacity, whether it be environmental therapists, child and youth workers, health professionals or cleaners. The need for our well-being is going to be greater in the future. For example, many children and young people now need help phones, but adults who see them and have time for them, at school or at the leisure club. We will need to strengthen health centres and school health services and outreach work, such as outreach contacts. There is no doubt that it is the young people who have paid the highest price under this pandemic. Many of them still pay, and for them it's not over, whether they're in the quarantine right now and miss their friends and their activities, or they notice the economic consequences hard, such as. many students have done. They like to lose both their job and their social community. The least we can do now is give them a full power grant of NOK 3000, which we're doing here now, because concerns about the economy are also directly involved in the mental health of many. The majority have also increased the appropriations for lowthreshold mental health protection in municipalities, by 100 million. kr. We know that, because the waiting time before you get help is too long. It's brutal that when you need it the most and actually ask for help, you can be rejected and turned down to wait six, eight or twelve months. In the future, then, we need to strengthen all services in the field of mental health far more. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV also make it clear that municipalities and county councils are to be compensated for the costs they now incur as a result of infectious diseases control measures. It should not be cut in welfare because the municipalities have to operate with infection tracking. Similarly, county councils must be compensated for lost ticket revenue in public transport. It is dramatic if the route offer is permanently reduced as a result of fewer travellers under the pandemic. Eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred and eight hundred. If you want to avoid that, you have to come back to the revised budget with a new assessment. The share of passengers by collective and rail shall be up to achieve the climate objectives. Finally, we're not just going to have something to live with, we're going to have something to live for. The cultural sector is severely affected by the current and future measures on infectious diseases. That is why we are also strengthening the compensation scheme for the cultural sector, so that more people get more money. We also state that the various economic compensation schemes need to be evaluated, and we need to look at the effects of distribution of income and wealth, business and labour market conversion and the level of economic activity and government finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e371	Soon it is two years since Korona came to Norway. I don't know what is the appropriate way to mark a two-year spandex day, but I know it was a day that changed Norway. We were many who might have thought that this would be a short-term and temporary crisis, an exceptional state, and that we could pause the usual world and then just turn it on again afterwards. But now it's just gone too far. Because even if we could spell out the pandemic tomorrow, it has already done great damage and set deep tracks that will not disappear just by the time passing. For hundreds of thousands of workers, the pandemic has simply made a big cut in the account. It could be the money you had saved for a home purchase, for continuing training, or for your wedding, which has disappeared to cover bills in periods when the income has been shaved. For every number in the daily money statistics, it's a person who's got less money to go with. We know that it's those who have low incomes, who have been mostly in these statistics through the crisis. For another hundred thousands, the workload has been too heavy for almost two years. Through the wave of infection after the wave of infection, whether there are the bio engineers at the laboratories, the cleaners here at Stortinget, the health professionals, the kindergarten and school staff or the case handlers at Nav, they have been given new tasks, more tasks, more heavy tasks and not as many colleagues as they need to share the tasks with. The sum of this workload has become too large for many, and we have seen many alarming investigations recently showing that people in important professions are considering quitting their profession. Because it might not be very motivating to give everything to make the wheels go around, for society to hang together, and then you just get applause back. You may not feel that much worth knowing that you earn less than men-dominated groups of professionals who have the same length of education, although everyone agrees that the job you do is important. As you know, you can't pay your bills with applause. Our culture has been failing for almost two years. It's often like culture that we notice the big stars -- I don't know, DDE and Munch and that -- but culture is based on the fact that there are many small actors that produce good, semi-good and sometimes bad culture. So that's what's the diversity of our culture, which sometimes brings out big stars, but that always makes us all find something we can learn from and something we can be affected by in the art and culture that is being produced. The cultural sector and the undergrowth in the cultural sector have been dead in many ways for almost two years. Although you can have a streaming concert on Facebook, it was interesting for us all for exactly three weeks. That's not the same thing as going to a proper concert. People are tired now, they're economically tired, physically tired and mentally tired. That's why we in Red believe that this crisis package should have seen a little longer, be wider and rustier. The crisis has simply been for too long and has caused too much damage to the economic crisis package to be limited to pushing healthcare, the cultural sector, the municipalities and the business community over enough of a knuckle, if it is such that they are kneeling on the other side. We can't wait for the crisis to pass until we start rebuilding. That's why Red believes that, in addition to the crisis package that the majority of us propose, we should have put more into health care preparedness, to strengthen well-being, to make culture flourish, and to ensure recruitment to all the industries that have lost people through many rounds of leave and imprisonment. We in Red have put forward our own proposals, such as: is about giving 1.5 billion. kr to the local health service. Although there is a lot of extra to the hospitals, both the school health services, the medical staff, the fixed medical system, home care and nursing homes are lacking to ensure good health and care for those affected by the Korona, but also for all of us and all of the needs we have, in the municipalities in which we live. We're also proposing 500 million. kr extra to the municipal business compensation scheme. It's because we know that it's done very well to help very different parts of the business in different parts of the country that have completely different challenges, because the municipalities know them the best. Then we propose to strengthen the established cultural systems, so that there is simply more room for performing both concerts, there will be few people at and exhibitions that almost no one can see, because it is necessary for culture not to kneel completely. That's really the suggestions I was going to refer to now. People who are interested can read more on the Internet. I'm addressing the suggestions that we've been promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e390	The representative Marie Sneve Martinussen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e396	We need to ensure that we have support measures for as long as the disease prevention measures last. In fact, for some sectors of society, it is also necessary to have them longer than that, where we see that there can be long-term effects in the negative sense of the closures. Collective traffic is probably the best example of that. This is the way, as the case-speaker has wisely said, that we also need to adapt the measures to the economic situation in the country. There I understand that it is now imperative to find a good balance also for the government party, all the time there is a number of sectors that are going well and the price growth is high, while there is an open need for support in other sectors. This isn't that easy. But we are still forced to find a good balance, and I think one has approached the treatment in Stortinget. So the left is not here, either in the Stortinge in general or in the pulpit today, to pursue any over-the-counter policy. A good part of what a has been a few about, makes sense. At the same time, there are some areas where better and more targeted efforts are needed. I would like to highlight two areas in particular. One is public transport. First of all, more money is needed, but second, it is absolutely decisive that one now in the future follows the situation carefully and is ready to set up when it is needed, to make sure that the supply is at least as good – and preferably better – on the way out of this pandemic as it was when we went into it. I'm saying that because in the period we're now in, people are setting up new habits, and some of the habits can be very unfortunate if this leads to a new accumulation of car traffic in our cities and a poorer collective supply. One can get into a bad circle where it reinforces each other. Then it's worth taking into account that the starting point was very good, simply that over several years we had strengthened public transport strongly compared to the previous government. The number of public travel, both on the road and on the road, increased sharply, and people were driving smaller cars in our big cities. If the developments are now turning around, it will be very serious. Therefore, greater efforts must be made to combat public transport. The second thing I want to mention is lost learning. I'm not just referring to it because it's demanding too many of our students who don't get the follow-up they need, but also because they put the money off by the previous government to resume lost learning, cut this government in the budget for 2022, regardless of the pandemic. That's a problem. It's not taken anymore, and it's critical. For this reason, the Left proposes to allow more money to resume progress through targeted measures, as well as money directed towards summer school, so that you can make sure that people get back to the level and get it to help them. When there are now new requests and wishes to cancel the exam this spring, and there is no reason why it is difficult to carry out, but in that the students are not ready, there should be a very serious warning that a person has not been able to perform well enough training. Then you'll need more money to recover what's lost. I would also like to comment on the contribution from the Centre Party's Pollestad, which talks about – and that's not the first time – that it is now so very difficult to deal with this, and that it is no longer a matter of a reopening time where the Minister of Culture could come with his dance moves, as it was said. Then I will say that there was no one from the Center Party, the Labour Party or the SV who opposed us reopening society in September. On the contrary, they were at the party, all of them, and with good reason. Because there was every reason to open up, it was quite right to do it. Creating a kind of impression that it was not right, I thought the government party should stick too well. It's not like that either, I think, that it's so much more demanding to deal with a pandemic where we are now than it was the year and a half before that. Because I was there, and it wasn't easy to motivate a tired population when the vaccines were at least one year ahead of time. It was not easy to establish all these new arrangements that we had never had before, and find a good balance. I even think I can watch the claim that it was more demanding than it is to reactivate them and start them again. So talking about someone having it easy and others having it hard, I don't think we're going to start with. It's imperative to handle a pandemic. It's demanding to sit in government. That's when we did it, and it's obvious with this government. That's the way it is, because having power is also having responsibility, and responsibility can weigh. I would like to address the suggestions from the Left. We will also support some of the many suggestions that have been submitted, but time is not enough to go through them all.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e417	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e422	Although we all hope that the infectious diseases measures will soon become history, there is no doubt that exceptional measures are still needed, and I think they are going to be needed for quite a long time. A lot of people have experienced the last few years as very stressful, and the younger you are, the more years of your life have been pandemic and much isolation. A lot of people have been on leave for the first time. Many people have lost their jobs for the first time. Many have been diagnosed for the first time. A lot of people who haven't known about it before know about loneliness and mental disorders. This will take time to repair. And I want to say, from the Greens' side, that to me it's a matter of course that the repair must be done together as a society. As is well known, much of the business and public transport are also affected. Collective transport is in a serious situation and is in great need of assistance in the future, even after the cessation of the disease protection measures. It is demanding for companies to have to plan a cut in the route offer instead of spending time creating a better offer when the pandemic is over, as the representative Rotevatn was inside his post. That is why we in the Greens are very pleased that the government and the SV have agreed on an extended support for the sector. At the same time, we believe – we also note it in many of the major municipalities – that public societies need security even after the summer. Car traffic in cities is now rising, new travel habits are setting up quickly, and the risk is great that we will get a downward spiral where fewer passengers give cuts in the route offer, which in turn leads to fewer passengers. The trend towards increased traffic in cars needs to be reversed in order to safeguard health, well-being and the safety of our communities, as well as the environment. We therefore propose to create a conversion package of 500 million. kr to public transport today, which allows companies to work specifically to get passengers back and develop a better, cheaper and more tailor-made offer in the coming period. I want to raise my eyes a little bit: in many low-income countries, most people are still unvaccinated. One of the most effective things the Western world can do to improve the situation is to divide patents into vaccines. Pending this, it is important to support the international vaccine co-operation COVAX. They need 46 billion. NOK the next three months. So far, they've got a commitment of $1.7 billion. kr. Norway is already contributing, but we can do more. Today, the Greens are proposing to increase aid by one billion. We have had a harvest of electricity prices that we have not been used to seeing in Norway. I should like to commend the government for their relatively rapid introduction of a temporary aid scheme. The power pack is important for those who are now struggling to pay the electricity bill. At the same time, this shouldn't be the model, we think, the next time the power prices rise. The Green Party has therefore proposed a separate model that is not designed so that those with the highest power consumption benefit most from the government's power package. The electricity crisis should also have taught the Storting that we need to make energy saving a major political effort, in order to invest in an increase is expensive. Lonely and low-income families also have to afford to isolate the house, replace the panel oven with a heat pump or install solar panels on the roof. Then we need better support schemes. That's why we're proposing today to set of 1.4 billion. kr for a large, offensive investment in energy efficiency improvement through the Husbank. So to the students: they are a group that has paid a very high price under the pandemic, both psychologically and economically, which the Greens have expressed concern about in this room since the spring pandemic came to Norway. Students should be entitled to a daily allowance, like everyone else, when they get a permit or lose their job. But we know that's not that easy to do in a fairy. That is why we are now proposing to introduce an additional grant of up to NOK 8 000 per month for the first quarter of 2022 for students who have been on leave or who have lost their job in this period. Finally, today we are also discussing a proposal from the Greens/Greens/European Greens to postpone the tax collection for the food industry. I am very pleased that the government, just after we promoted that proposal, chose to propose this in the proposition we are now debating. "Great minds think alike," I can say then, because it seemed a bit like I was trying to take credit for it. Here I think we're more people who've thought the same thing, and we're very happy about that. We also join many of the improvements that SV has negotiated with the government. Then I will address our proposal in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e447	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e452	The debate shows that there is a great deal of agreement on the broad lines of what we are discussing today. The Christian People's Party subscribes to the main content of the proposition and to the agreement between the government parties and SV. I am pleased that the compensation scheme is in place, and that the compensation scheme is there. I think this can help to make a lot of businesses a little easier for us to meet. I think it is good that the government wants to grant so much money for testing. I think it's a very important measure. I'm also happy with the adjustments that have been made that one can go away from more quarantine and hopefully that way, whether it's students or adults, can go to school and work to a greater extent than what we've done in the past few weeks. At the same time, it is a major challenge for municipalities on the health side. We know it's an overload. The job has been on a large scale for a very long time. My concern is also that during the round we're in now, where we know that even more are going to be infected in the next few weeks, it will lead to a great deal of pressure on the important services, whether it's for children and young people who need someone to talk to about something that's difficult, or it's for vulnerable older people who need a follow-up. It is extremely important that there is also enough resources for this, and that priority is given to it around the municipalities. I'm glad there's unity attached to collective. That is one of the fields where we have received a lot of feedback. We have our own proposal on this matter. I'm not necessarily there that I believe that the government parties and the SV disagree with the Christian People's Party, but the wording of the proposal may seem like the goal is just to raise the collective share. But we know that there has been an increase in times and cycles, and that some of the reduction in collectives is related to it. I see in particular that in Oslo it is referred to it from the City Council. So the main point must be that car use is going down, not just that collective must rise to the same share as before. It's good if people walk or ride bicycles. Of the proposals we have put forward, the main focus is on the follow-up and follow-up of children and young people. There are several people who have been involved in it during this debate. They have borne a heavy burden in these almost two years, and therefore we believe that when the closure came, it should have acted faster from the government and given more money to various measures. We know that there is something in the budget already, but much of it is about postponing, not dealing with a pandemic. In terms of violence and assault, one view has been that, through the pandemic, there has been a large increase associated with the digital, so we're going to put a greater emphasis on it. There must be a priority in the future. We know that there are many children and young people who are unfortunately exposed to this online. I am pleased that there is money for mental health, for vulnerable elderly people and for various measures related to non-governmental organisations. There's something we're betting on even more, especially when it comes to inclusion. We know that there are more children growing up in poverty. We know that there are many people who have lost their jobs or have been on leave, and we are concerned about the consequences for them. The same applies to lost learning and schooling, and I think the representative Rotevatn said it well. This is one of the things that really worries me. There are many children who have experienced sitting in front of the PC and having received instruction, and that the requirements related to the exam lead to the cancelled exam now in ours. It's a failit statement if that's the case that you haven't been trained well enough to be able to pass the exam. It is so important that a different approach is taken to ensure this, whether it concerns enough teachers or other ways to recover the lost progress. We know that summer school has been a great success, and that should have been put on much more. I hope that the government will look at measures related to it when you are going to deal with the revision, because I really hope that we will release new crisis packages. Finally, some words about electricity: On Friday, the Christian People's Party proposed a maximum price of 50 cents. We believe that it would have been the best way to solve the challenges now in January to March. We see that there are so many different organisations and companies that should be supported, and so many that fall out of the scheme. It's a weakness. There is also a concern about business. I've been talking to several companies lately that are concerned about the electricity price, but they also add a large increase in tax billing, challenges related to the pandemic, and the introduction of a pension from the first penny without any support from the state. It's also a big concern for me. So as far as voting is concerned, we support several of the proposals. We join the agreement between the government parties and SV, but because of the voting arrangements, we do not vote for it. We are voting in favour of our own proposals, which I would like to raise, and we also support proposal No. 29, which is a loose proposal distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e473	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e478	We have had many rounds in the Storting about different compensation schemes. It's almost two years since we had the first rounds, and many of the representatives sitting in the hall spent the first weeks and months here together. I hope we go to the end of this type of round, not because of the form of work and accumulation or government, but because of all the individuals and businessmen who have had two demanding years, with a lot of uncertainty. And even though it's record high infection rates, it looks like the severity is going down, hopefully. It provides a basis for optimism, for confidence in the future and for belief that we will not have this kind of rounds again and again in the coming years. What's a little strange about the political debate about the compensation scheme is that there are really no companies that want to have a compensation scheme. In fact, there are no employees who will basically have improved leave arrangements and a higher amount of aid there. They will have a job and work or be able to run a business or a café and make money in a normal and honest way. That's why it's the whole goal. But then it's important for the government to set up for those who are struggling, for those who have challenges, and for those who are particularly hard hit. I want to go through some of it. It's a huge amount of work, and we can become a little bit of speed-blind in government and big business. There's almost no people in the room, but we're going to adopt well over 20 billion. kr in different measures. So there are pretty powerful things happening, but it's almost become a habit after these years of Korona. The municipal compensation scheme adds 500 million. kr to today. It has proved to be among the schemes that capture those who fall out a little bit – many small businesses, the small local café where you may not see the difference between the one washing the floor, the one standing in the bar or the one who owns it, because it is often the same person. The municipal compensation scheme has been a safety valve. That's why it's 500 million. kr to there, and I believe it is a good and accurate measure. I remember, among other things: The rapporteur in Kongsvinger used that system in the previous round and how happy it was for some local nutritionists, as we see more of them now, when we adopt it here. The national compensation scheme is continued. It's important, it's made things a little bit less difficult. People know that arrangement well. The big new one is the wage support system. What's very positive is that last week's number of alerts about the number of lay-offs was 600. For the 600, it's dramatic. But on average at 2021, it was, the last time I checked, 1,600. That's incredibly good numbers. If we compare it, of course, it's dramatic for the 600, but it was even worse when it was 1,600 on average. It seems that fewer and fewer people are exposed to that uncertainty and come across different types of support scheme rather than being permitted or cancelled, and that the wage support scheme has also had a clear effect. Last week I was myself visiting a hotel where they had chosen salary support instead of leave. Then it's the air passenger fee, at $880 million. kr. The Coronapandemic has made us travel less, we're taking less, and that's exactly the kind of industries that are being hit. This is why it was important for the government to see in this round the important industry that aviation is, because it is an industry that binds Norway and that provides very many jobs. I will bring forward the same thing as Kjell Ingolf Ruppstad from the Christian People's Party did, for the largest number today are the means we grant for testing. Had someone said a few years ago that Stortinget in January 2022 would grant 5 billion kroner. kr to various tests, I think people had thought: what in the world is this? But now it looks completely natural and completely correct. It's a main bet, just for having enough test capacity. And you're going to spend 1.5 billion. health businesses, the use of money on vaccines and more money on coronary medicine to cope with a greater extent of the corona while keeping society as open as possible. That's why, together with SV, we have high priority public transport, because we have to manage to get that part of social life through this trick, so that we also have a good collective offer when this is over. I want to finish where I started: let's hope that there won't be a lot of new rounds of corona compensation, but more normality, and that there are common political priorities on the agenda. However, the sum of these measures will make things a little less difficult for businesses and also provide protection for workers around the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e504	Inflation in OECD countries is now at its maximum of 25 years. In many countries, prices are increasing widely – this is not limited to energy prices. Oil money use is now rising below 35 billion. kr. It would normally seem very expansive in the economy. At the same time, the government in the proposition points out that we are in a new situation where there are signs of inflationary pressures in the Norwegian economy, and where there is a danger that inflation may bite. Can the Minister of Finance elaborate on the government’s assessment of oil money use and inflation risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e509	We really have from 2020 onward, when we had the different discussions about the compensation schemes, which countries earned that our predecessors have managed to put so much money on the book, as Sigbjørn Johnsen was the first to do. And we've used that force. We spent even more money on compensation measures in both 2020 and 2021 than we seem to be doing now. We have to make sure that things can happen, but everything looks like you're going to spend a lot less this year, and that's a goal. There is no doubt that also very much in the Norwegian economy goes much, much better than what you thought in 2020 and 2021. It is also seen that Norway is making good use of as a country that we have a large oil and gas sector. Fortunately, although it creates great price pressure, Norway also serves it as a country. It's important, and I think it's important for both government and big things to remember, when you come to the revised national budget, after the state budget, that holding back, making proper assessments of how we spend the money, is not a negative thing – it's a virtue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e514	I thank you for your answer. We probably agree with our oil wealth and how it is used. It is also reassuring to hear that the Minister of Finance says that we should keep up the use of oil money, so that we also keep inflation under control and hence interest rates. It is important for Norwegian families and for most people living in Norway who have loans. My next question is then: How will the Minister of Finance and the Government finance their election promises if it is to be held back on the use of oil money and not to increase taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e522	Looking at very many of the measures adopted today, which are comprehensive and powerful, is a major part of them, for example, temporary measures. the compensation scheme, which is one of the largest items. There is, of course, a system that is now in place – ergo will not permanently increase the use of oil money. We also see the huge purchase of tests, which is the second largest individual grant, of 5 billion. kr. Hopefully, there is little need for that kind of investment in the future. For this reason, it is important that, if necessary in the future, various compensatory measures are used to enable us to bring it about, that it is temporary. And there are tough priorities, as it is – as far as the end of the question is concerned – there will be tough priorities within a large government budget. What is important for the government is to prioritize measures to bring down the differences between people, to develop all of Norway, and to have a responsible economic policy, because it is at the bottom. Take, for example, myself: I have a lot of loans, so I don't want the interest to be too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e529	It's almost tempting to tell the finance minister that we're going to have hope that we can stop taking this way, because there have been many rounds in the Great Britain about Korona measures and not least about the need for reduced low VAT. The Centre Party and the Advance Party have agreed very strongly that there has been an important measure to help the tourism industry, public transport, aviation, etc. – industries that have been and continue to be severely affected by the pandemic and the post-punishment of the pandemic. Probably it'll take a very long time before they get all the way back to the normal situation. My question to the Minister of Finance is why he does not believe that halved low tax is a targeted measure, as he thought quite a few months back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e534	Limi was also with the first weekend when we negotiated the Korona measures, in March 2020, and the low VAT came in place on Monday morning. It was one of the very last things that came into place, and I myself was very active in bringing it to the meeting of the parliamentary leaders. At the time, we were afraid that the Norwegian economy would stop completely, that we would not get any activity, and that we would use various incentives. We also reduced the employer's fee in the spring, just to keep the wheels running. There was a completely different situation in the economy then, and there were hundreds of thousands of lay-offs. Therefore, this type of broad incentive was thought of, both lower employers' fees and low VAT rates for all. When we gave priority to tax cuts in this round, we gave priority to one of the industries that are the hardest hit: aviation. That was the main priority of tax cuts, because that's where we know they need it. The extra stimulation of 880 million. kr will be able to help the important industry over the knee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e539	This Stortinget has, very often with the voice of Red, decided to use 260 billion. kr on crisis measures since the Corona arrived. It's a big number, but we here at Stortinget get a little focussed on the negative, because not all parts of the business are going bad. Other parts of the business go very well and have just done it because of the pandemic, such as by saying that we buy more at the grocery store and order more at online shops. Those who produce takeaway packaging have had good days. And to follow up a little bit the representative that Faramand raised, about concerns about the balance here, the question is, can the government consider setting up the tax on the profits of the sectors that have gone well, so that we don't have to pay according to the corona bill using oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e544	Fortunately, much of Norwegian business is going well, and it seems to be a very good year for many now as well. And when too many go well, the cake over time will get bigger, and thus the community will also get more use. One of the strengths of Norway is that we have had a stable fiscal policy. There has been some exception to the charging policy, which has sprung up and down, which has given very many negative impacts for individual industries and created a lot of uncertainty. However, tax policy has generally had a great deal of stability. It has served the country well, and that's what this government adds up to. And then we have said one thing quite clearly: people who earn less than 750,000 kroner will experience that they get lower taxes and taxes in sum. If we look at the tax bill for this year, people who make less than 750,000 dollars, get lower taxes this year than they had last year, while those who make over 750,000 dollars, have to pay a little bit more in taxes. But we've notified it, and we're going to run along that line and run a tax policy that makes the cake bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e551	Now it is not stability that has shaped Norwegian fiscal policy in the last eight years. The right hand government has just cut taxes like a red thread. In particular, the tax on profits in the companies, also referred to as corporate tax, has been deducted from 28 p.m. until 22 pst. in the course of eight years. It's not stable at all – it's going in one direction. My question is whether one is willing to assess at all, when it comes to putting down this sample to look at the economic impact of the pandemic, that some sectors that have earned very well, perhaps should contribute to taking part of this bill. Many of the arrangements we have adopted and adopted in Stortinget on Friday and today are about helping a lot of sectors that go bad, small businesses, people who need wage support, and it's Red very much for. But in the same way that there's inequality between people, that's between employees who earn a lot and a little bit, there's also a very big inequality between companies that go very well and those that go bad. So this isn't about turning stability into instability, it's just going to reverse some of the cuts that the previous government left behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e556	When it came to reducing corporation tax to 22 p.m., it was part of a broad deal in the Storting that contained many different elements. One of them was with the corporate tax. What has been one of the strengths of the tax policy in the United Kingdom is that, although we have disagreements — on the distribution profile, on how much fees you should have, on the district profile, which this government wants to be better than under the previous government — we still manage to agree on some of these basic principles. Corporate tax was agreed on across traditional policy divisions. Red wasn't part of the deal. But I think it has served Norway well that we have that kind of tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e561	Some of those who have been the hardest frame of this pandemic are children and young people, despite the fact that both the previous government and this government have done everything we can to protect them from the worst consequences. But we still see that too many have missed important learning, and that many in school now see clearly the challenges of the lost learning progress. Some of the first finance minister did as a finance minister, was cut in the funds that the previous government set aside to just take back lost learning. The money hasn't come into place yet. So the question is: does the Minister of Finance see in the light of the postwar clock, when we're in yet another shut-down, that it was unwise? And will the government soon come up with more money, both to take back the lost progress for the students and to get a sufficient number of summer balls and a good educational offer for the many who now need to get up the learning pressure?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e566	One of the first things this government did, to use Rotevatern's rhetoric, was to strengthen the counties by 500 million. kr, precisely because the counties are responsible for the secondary schools, they are the ones with daily operations. We thought that the scheme from the Left and Right and the Christian People's Party was too bad, and that's why we strengthened it, so that you can run it better. Then we also strengthened the municipalities, the primary municipalities, by 2 billion. to be able to run schools and follow-up young people and others with additional challenges. In addition, we increased the support for what is called resource-intensive services, that is, for people with particularly heavy disabilities, by 300 million. kr. This facilitated local community budgets, which provide resources and power to follow-up groups with additional challenges. And in the package of measures we're now presenting, we're adding 100 million. kr extra to study progress for the students, because it is not covered by the municipalities and county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e571	There's something that politicians are very happy about, but that doesn't really work, and it's using the same money twice. In the debates we had in the fall, there was no loss of learning progress and school that the Minister of Finance or the Government Party used as an argument for the money that was given to the county municipalities. No, on the contrary, it was referred to the money when we debated the need to strengthen public transport and to provide cheaper ferry tickets. But if they also – in some way – plan to resume the lost progress in learning, there is nothing better than that, but I have allowed myself to doubt, unfortunately. But let me still ask another question in this line, about what's going on, which is also part of what we're dealing with today. The government has rescued agriculture with power support, and the argument was that they have no choice but to use power. You can understand that, but there are quite a number of other entrepreneurs in this country who have no choice but to use power. Why, however, does the government not meet them, e.g. by voting in favour of the proposal before us in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e578	Now Rotevatn went into a bit of a fun exercise to analyze political minds, so then I can drag that analysis a little further into dealing with selective memory. If Rotevatn had remembered the debate on the municipal scheme, one of the biggest individual priorities there was to give over 1.2 billion. kr directly towards primary schools, in a new basic school grant which was then included in the framework. So just school was one of the main priorities when we discussed the municipal framework. If I don't remember completely wrong, that part of the bet on the municipalities was $1250 million. kr, so there was a quite substantial and heavy bet in school. In the case of a ferry: Yes, there are going to be free ferries in addition to the year, but it was put out of your own money for it too – 30 million. kr for free ferries. It is also set of own money at a reduced ferry price, which comes in addition. Then, of course, when we strengthen the municipalities and the county's finances, they have more resources and power to get hold of students and students who are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e586	I want to go a little further with this concerning power support, which is part of the allocation that is here today. I also want to pay tribute to the Minister of Finance, who I have registered is eager to come up with different measures. It's a demanding situation we're in. The government has announced that it will make a proposal – a support scheme for non-governmental organisations. Recently, I have been contacted by the type of higher education institution, post-secondary education — I can add agricultural and forestry lines — and other truly non-profit institutions, but for various security reasons, for example. is designed as an AS. These will – as I have read it in the media – fall outside that support scheme for non-governmental organisations. But to take one high school: they don't have very good opportunities to increase their income, other than possibly to increase their student pay or drop lines, but then the income will go down. Can the Minister of Finance answer whether this is a problem he will be looking at, possibly including in the matter that comes to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e593	The representative Rotevatn was also in the stream, so I can answer that also here, since I only answered the first part of the question instead. I sometimes think it's a little amazing to hear from Rotevatn and others that they're so worried about the general electricity prices, when you remember, for example. the resistance to the reduction of the electricity charge, as the Senterpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV stood behind, which means that the electricity charge is now 47 pst. lower for everyone – and as both the Right, Left and Christian People's Party said was wasted with money. I don't think it's wasting money at all, it makes the bills go down. Then the Minister of Culture will have to answer the details of the new compensation scheme for culture and volunteering. Of course, I listen with interest to what Kjell Ingolf Ropstad says, because I know that it is a party and a representative who has a great heart for the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e602	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e609	The message from those who work with eating disorders after two years of pandemic is bad. Those who ask for help are younger than before, they're sicker than before, and they're more than ever. ROS, Advice on Eating Disorders, reports on the longest waiting lists in the organisation's nearly 40-year history. The whole point of a lowthreshold offer is that it should not be expected, because waiting is a threshold for contact. And when the queues get longer with them, the queues also appear in municipal services and in children's and youth psychiatry. If you don't get help early, the problem often gets more serious. Many people with eating disorders need routines in their everyday lives. School and leisure services have disappeared, young people are more socially isolated, and although we are many who are longing for the day the pandemic is over, there is someone who pays a higher price for every day life wasn't like before. For some, it is difficult not to control when reopening occurs, or how the days become when society opens up completely again. Then it's easier to fall back to having something you can control, for example. food. There is a very clear link between pandemic and eating disorders and mental disorders. That is why we propose more money to increase the capacity of low-threshold counselling and treatment for eating disorders, because more progress through the pandemic means that we need to slow down in order for more people to need help. A few weeks ago, we could read that we are once again in a situation where those who work in the school health service are set to do completely different things than help our young people. It shouldn't be like that. We've told you about this before, but now we're going to have to do it again. We're proposing an increase of 100 million. kr for exceptional efforts by the health centre and school health services in the municipalities. And then we know that more young people are coming in contact to get help from the help phones. We also know that many prefer to contact anonymously, for example. via chat. That's why we're proposing five million. kr more for help phones, and one of them goes especially to mental health youth chat. Seizure, social distance and digital education do something with young people. That is why we are proposing these additional temporary reinforcements.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e622	For two years, the world has been embossed by the pandemic. Sickness, death, isolation, quarantine, vaccine, shut-down, home office, home school, closed activities, mouthbands, a meter's distance, life on hold, dismissals, and leavencies are words that have shaped our lives these years. The pandemic has proved to be unpredictable. A year ago, we were opening up and removing measures. Then came the British variant with new powerful and necessary infectious measures. Last summer and beyond, there were new reliefs. From the tops of the Institute of Public Health, we were told that was the pandemic. But the virus would do it differently. In December, omicron appeared, the virus had mutated again. Despite the fact that most of us were vaccinated, new and invasive measures had to be taken to control the infection. I am sure that both the previous government and today's government are not introducing infectious measures with a light heart. They don't do it for fun, they don't do it to plague people. My city of Oslo was shut down for 197 days – from November 2020 to May 2021. It does something to people, it does something to our society, with volunteering, with the workplaces, and with our willingness and ability to tolerate new rounds of intervention. So when the Workers' Party-Center Party government saw the need to take comprehensive measures to control the infection in mid-December, two things were particularly important: firstly, the measures should not be longer than necessary, and secondly, measures to reduce the infection had to be followed up quickly with compensatory measures that could counteract negative aspects of the closure. Despite increasing infection rates, the government has now removed many of the most invasive measures. Much indicates that we are now on our way out of the pandemic, even though I am not enjoying myself a second early. Today, Stortinget adopts a powerful economic package that can remedy a difficult situation for many in our country. After negotiations here in Stortinget, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV majority of what the government has proposed, with some additions. The package we're adopting is good, and the financial compensation measures are coming much earlier than what we've seen in the pandemic. That's $1.7 a.m. kr in incentives for culture, volunteering and sport. That's $5.7 billion. kr for emergency storage facilities, medicinal products and infective equipment. It's given $15 a.m. to compensate public transport for the loss of income. We adopt a new wage support scheme and compensation is ensured for companies with market failures. The job is not over with appropriations. A lot of people have a hard time. Lost social activity, increased differences and more mental disorders require a lot of hard work from us in the future. We can only do that job together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e641	On Thursday I was visiting the Red Cross in Tromsø to talk about solitude and health-freeness under the pandemic. It was a nice visit. I got to talk to volunteers who have given up their time for others to get better, and to people who have been better off because of the fact that the health security in Norway has been under the pandemic. I also attended the trimotization of the crack seniors who meet each week, and Inger in 90 years I thought I managed well through the trimotization, but that I could have had a little more rhythm in the body. If I'm going to be completely honest with myself, I think I can agree with Inger on that. After the trial I got a nice talk with several of the older people. During the pandemic, many older people have experienced fewer activities and meeting places. A study conducted by the Red Cross before Christmas shows a distinctly negative development, where more and more people report being lonely as a result of the pandemic, and it is the youngest and the oldest in our society who know most about solitude. Freedom of health has been crucial during the pandemic. It has helped to keep activities and meeting places open as far as possible when others have kept them closed, such as the public offer. They are clear because volunteering has a flexibility that few others have, and volunteering can be faster and easier to throw around when necessary. The pandemic has once again shown the importance of volunteering for society, and how important it is for society to take care of volunteering. It's the year of Volunteership this year. In 2020, the Solberg Government established a partnership with the Dam Foundation to establish an incentive programme for health freedom. The programme was intended to stimulate action by non-governmental organisations contributing to the reduction of the negative impacts of infectious disease control measures. In 2020 and 2021 it was set at 75 million, respectively. SEK and 90 million. kr to the program. The program ended last fall because we went towards a reopening of society in October. The right is pleased that the government is now choosing to resume cooperation with the Dam Foundation and reopen the health-free incentive programme. The government is proposing to set aside $50 million. kr for this, but right will strengthen it and follow up previous allocations. That is why we are proposing today to set aside 75 million. $25 million. kr more than the government has proposed. It will provide several activities and meeting places that prevent solitude between young and older people. In the end, I would like to point out the need for the government to follow up this scheme and ensure that the money and funds from the incentive scheme are paid out to health-freeness as soon as possible, so that one helps to prevent solitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e656	Thank you very much a day. Many wonder what the future will be like, whether the flow will be cheaper, or whether the coronary apathy will soon release the iron grip it has on society. The government is committed to lightening the burden Ola and Kari Nordmann bear, the burden the businesses bear, and ensuring that the so-called labor can soon end. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have come together on important steps to facilitate the situation for people throughout the country. Infective measures at kindergartens, schools, specialised schools, colleges, universities and other arenas for children and young people involve many limitations compared to a normal situation. For education, it will be e.g. digital education and a different examination. The fact that you meet less and have a lot of digital education is demanding both professionally and socially. It is specifically about the fact that digital education, organisation and follow-up are different from physical attendance. Everything from lab work to group work is different. Today, for example, I visited. The technical school Noroff, which can offer students remote control of mixer tables by recording music. It can't be done for any subject or any education. The experience from the pandemic is that there is a need for additional measures for the students. The government will grant several million to colleges, colleges and universities to maintain the study progress of the students. The students must have good follow-up. Institutions shall assess the best measures and activities to ensure the professional follow-up of students. There is also a need for more candidates with health and social skills. The government wants institutions to maximise their absorption in 2022 and to record 500 new students from the autumn of 2022. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will also have means of prevention aimed at the mental health of students. The funds will go to student partnerships, which, in cooperation with the students, will assess the best measures and activities to contribute to psychosocial follow-up and good mental health among the students. The electricity price has been, and is, unusually high. For students, high electricity bills will be a financial burden. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV provide an application-based supplementary loan through the Loan Fund in spring 2022 to students and adult students in secondary education, including a smaller group of adult students with youth rights. The grant is NOK 3000. In addition, a number of measures are aimed at students who receive additional income due to high labour input, those who lose income, and other measures of the Loan Fund scheme. The continuation of sectoral programmes is also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e669	Let me join those who have said that the pandemic is getting weary, has been a long time, and that there are many who are weary. Let me join the State Council, Vedum, who says it's a powerful package. Let me conclude that there are many who are struggling. When Pollestad says that there is now a government that is more concerned with listening and delivering targeted actions, the question can be asked whether there are deliberately targeted actions. Aviation was important, said Vedum in the pulpit. Yes, it is. Therefore, it is alarming that an air passenger charge, against which the Senterparte was opposed, is now a proper measure. If it's a targeted action, we can only ask the Center Party about it. Non-governmental airports are not mentioned in a word. That crisis was there in December. Now we'll be in February. Nor has anything been set aside for non-state airports in 2022. For me and the Progress Party, there is still a crisis at those airports. It is nice to observe that the Right now has a proposal and agrees with the Advance Party that these are important airports, but it is a little shy to record that the ESA last autumn signaled that the support Stortinget had gathered around and found it correct for what was needed for Torp, is eaten off with a little under 40 pst. It is also sceptical when Minister of Finance Vedum clearly sits down and sees that it was quite a support for 2021. Then it's even more serious that there isn't a single penny for 2022. The Progress Party has always been clear that these have been important airports. Torp airport is not only important for parts of the East, but it is the whole of District-Norway airport and has its base there. It's actually the hub. When it comes to power, it's interesting to say that you listen to people and businesses. I guess that's good. The Progress Party does that too, but we show the power of action by granting money. Had they done as the Progress Party suggests, there would have been a maximum electricity price. Then they had not come with their own compensation schemes. I agree with Vedum, who says we want to go back to normal. I don't think people or companies want to receive compensation – you want normal operations. This could be solved by supporting the Progress Party and introducing maximum electricity prices. That would make everyone more comfortable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e682	There is an extensive cold table menu of measures we are dealing with here today, and it is natural that in a pandemic and a current crisis we are facing, there is a broad deal about most of the measures. But that's what was said in the pulpit before, I think it was by the representative Pollestad, that we've done a lot right under this pandemic, but also a lot of mistakes, and we've learned a lot along the way. I agree with that. Some of what I'm going to say is the most serious mistake we've made is the fact that children and young people have been overburdened by the infectious diseases. Children and young people should have the opportunity to be more at school; they should have the opportunity to have a more normal everyday life. A lot of children and young people have been reset by the time we've been through. We don't get to do much of that again. The last example of this is that young people in the secondary school were held for too long on the red level and have even had a revolution in being home from school. But one of the things we can do now is get a really powerful commitment to taking back lost learning and progressing for children in school, and as a very concrete measure set of extra resources, as the Left and the Blue-Green Government did last year, to give a proper summer school offer to the most possible children and young people in this country. It's important, priority issues for the Left. After all that children and young people have gone through, I am surprised that the government is no longer focusing on putting in a power cap to help children and young people in the last time we're in. There are also a number of other areas where it is important for the Left to look for measures, not for excuses. The Minister of Finance boasted of the municipal compensation scheme, which is a simple and unbureaucratic scheme to help enterprises in the pandemic. The left is happy to support it and that the scheme is now being implemented, but similar simple schemes could also be put in place to help small businesses that are now struggling with high power bills. Businesses such as sawmilling, bakery, laundry and cleaning could also have helped with targeted, simple measures. Instead, we believe that the Minister of Agriculture has the right to say that they do not get help because of the EEA, which is the permanent excuse when the Central Party in the government does not want anything. The left is also concerned that we are now going to bet on helping cultural life. There has been a lot of talk in this Chamber, most recently on Friday. We'll get more within the systems that are to help cultural life, including the big private actors in cultural life. On the left, we also support proposals from Red that compensation and stimulation schemes should be regulated, and that we now need a plan to restore and strengthen the cultural sector after the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e701	Today, the Storting House adopts new and powerful measures to address a difficult situation. Once again, the government comes on the road quickly with measures to help ordinary people who have difficulties. As a member of the Municipal Committee, I would like to point out three areas: housing support, collective services and the provision of welfare. No one should have to freeze during the winter to be able to pay the electricity bill. Before Christmas, the government parties and SV agreed on an extension of the housing support. We still have high electricity prices, so it is also important to strengthen the scheme. We keep our promise today when we increase the extraordinary power support system within housing support to NOK 2 500 with payment in February and March. Adherence to the situation has also been important in terms of public transport. As a result of infection prevention measures, we drive less collectively. It affects the income of the county. This government follows the situation day by day and reacts quickly when necessary. We're showing that today when we decide to allocate $880 million. kr in compensation to county councils for the period from 1 April to 1 August. The coronary apathy hits the hardest of those who have it difficult before. Then it feels very right to strengthen municipalities, and not least low-threshold services in mental health, with 100 million. kr. I have daily contact with rapporteurs in the municipalities of the country, and I am deeply impressed by how municipalities and their employees are at the forefront in dealing with the pandemic. At the same time, we also hear some rapporteurs who are concerned about economic consequences. That is why it is important to give the municipalities predictability, and we are now doing so by adopting a sentence that says: «The government is asking the government to compensate the municipalities and counties for additional expenditure and minor income arising from national, regional and local measures to protect infection.» It's a small sentence and a simple decision, but it's very important that people get the welfare they need, even in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e718	The young are our future. Then it is so important that everyone should have the opportunity to succeed, get the help they need, regardless of where they live or the size of the wallet. Too many people have found the coronary apathy particularly difficult. Many have also found it difficult before the pandemic and will continue to have difficulty as society becomes more normal. The current situation of infection has again become serious, and interventional measures for the protection of infectious diseases have been implemented. In order to mitigate the negative consequences of the pandemic and the intervention for children and young people and vulnerable groups, it was particularly important that the government proposed 78 million. kr in interim measures, and in negotiations with SV, the measures have also been further strengthened. It's both important and correct. We know that the crisis is going wrong. Children and young people in families with high levels of conflict, poor finances, drug use or mental illness are particularly affected by contact reduction measures. We also have older people, people with disabilities and people with drug and mental disorders who have been hit extra hard by reduced or closed activities and services. Too many contact reduction measures will contribute to solitude and make it worse for those with difficulties. There is no vaccine for. Therefore, it is very important – and right – that today’s government, including in negotiations with the SV, has been so concerned with children, young people and other vulnerable groups and has provided additional means for the community to be able to provide for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e729	We have a new tax king in the finance minister of this country. The money runs into oil, fortunately, but they also burn in with electricity charges and other taxes and taxes. I want to go back to March 2020, because it doesn't always help that you have a lot of money, you actually have to have infectious disease protection equipment. This demonstrated clearly in March 2020. There were some companies that took responsibility in this country — e.g. InnoVern, Sfactor, Uniqon and Asap, who produce infectious coats for which it was empty throughout the country and the world. It was soap for all types of infectious disease protection equipment. When the government presented its proposal, I was actually a little optimistic, because it looked like you were going to spend 200 million. kr to strengthen preparedness. But unfortunately, after seeing the Minister of Finance on TV, on the NRK, yesterday I realized that it was not so good. So that means throwing the companies that set up took responsibility and made sure that this equipment was put in place, making sure that people got mouthbands, and making sure that those who worked in the first-line service around all the hospitals in our country actually got this equipment. But once again you managed to get it from other cheaper countries, you decided not to continue with this. It is serious, and therefore I am surprised that the government does not follow decisions they themselves have taken, namely to ensure that emergency capacity is built up in Norway, as these companies stand for, and which should be put in place. Despite the fact that the Minister of Finance was with one company just before the election and promised that this would be fixed, the reality is that one is about to go down. It's very good in health, and we've had a public health service that's done an amazing job now in the pandemic, and that's been in it. But that means we've got longer queues, and people are waiting to be treated. Nevertheless, a government that closes its eyes does not want to assume that there is a lot of free capacity out there in private, and refuses to use the available capacity. So there are 500,000 people who could get surgery, get treatment, get healthy, and so quickly get back to work and other things. However, this government clearly believes that it is better for them to stand in line because everything is to be done in public. It's a shame for all the patients who don't get treatment. About 500,000 could have been treated during this year if the government had removed their skyscrapers, were actually concerned to provide for this and voted in favour of the Advance Party's proposal, No. 29, which is about private and, of course, non-profit foundations and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e738	The pandemic has caused us as a country to face major challenges in the last two years. Fortunately, we also have some advantage. We live in a knowledge society, and we live in a society that has found the oil, and we figure out that we're going to share it with the community, so that we have money on book and can use it now. So I also think it is a priority that we do not have an enormous political tension in how we deal with these kinds of crises. We have a fairly common understanding of the situation. Of course, the Storting is controlling the government, but we can go a long way in the same direction. I think this debate shows it in many ways. It is possible that it is a little frivolous, but it strikes me that the opposition's comments in this debate are largely praised disguised as criticism. For the speeches on the platform, there is a need to have even more of the policies and measures that the government and the Swedish government have now put forward. It is precisely measures for workers and business, and for the municipalities and culture that have been at the centre of the position. Public transport is another priority area. Here you get one of the very largest appropriations because we don't want the pandemic to be allowed to rage our collective offer. Therefore, there is also a separate reference in a request decision to follow closely the situation forward to revision in case even more vigorous action is needed. Health is also one of the areas raised by government and government. The community economy is strengthened, it means something to health, but here also comes 1.5 billion. kr more to the hospitals. Then I think that the representative Bruflot from the Right made a good contribution. Fear of the pandemic after the pandemic, or we'll say the pandemic both below and after the pandemic, and mental health is very real. The government and the Swedish government are now taking action for both children, young people, students and the help phones, to mention something, but probably that is not enough. Another health challenge is that it can be willful, but unfortunately not enough capacity and professionals. Nor has the government that was before us for eight years, delivered well enough to have available professionals. In this proposal from the government and the Swedish Government, we get e.g. a start of 500 additional nursing places. We're going to need more capacity in the health field, and maybe we need to look a little bit more closely at whether we're organizing ourselves optimally. Then it's most unusual with an action package of over 20 billion. NOK one month after the State budget. It says something about the gravity of the situation. Many of us would have wanted even more measures. It's not perfect what's coming now, but it's a good contribution. At the same time, we have to try to avoid that the price increase takes all of the time, that people are hit by unreasonably high interest rates along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e753	One thing that characterizes this government – and I say it like that because it's unlike the previous government – is that when you put in place strict measures to prevent infection, the help comes in handy. It's been called for the last few years we've had pandemics. It's incredibly important. The consequences of the time we've been in for so long are too many. Those who are vulnerable in society, those who are alone, who knew about the solitude before the pandemic, are worse now. Those who have worn have worn more. Psychiatric disorders for young people have increased dramatically. We could hear this weekend that within eating disorders it has increased by 60 pst. It's very dramatic. It says a little bit about what we have to expect to meet in the time after the pandemic, too, because we're going to do something about this. Then I'm really worried about the pandemic, which it's been talked about. What we see at the same time is the value of a strong public health service, our common health service. One should get help when one needs it. One's going to get the help you need, and one's going to get it all over the country. The challenges that have arisen have only been reinforced — the lack of health professionals, the failure to meet the challenges of providing adequate mental health care, the lack of intensive capacity, large public tasks that have not been prioritised by the previous government. So let's do something about that. This is why we have already started the major work on an escalation plan for mental health, ensuring that the reduction of daily places stops, that we get help faster. That's why everyone who's referred to has to get an assessment interview, and we start with the BUP. The government that is now sitting, is taking action, and in the agreements we have with SV, we clearly show that we are betting on our common health care. One and a half billion. kr on the table of hospitals means more help. So to one of the proposals of the Progress Party. I'm not surprised. A two-part health service may appear to be a task from time to time for the Progress Party. It's not like you can spend $1 three times even though the Progress Party might think you can. So every penny you take out to private, takes one from the local hospitals that we have. That's why it's completely irrelevant to support such a proposal, which is completely wrong medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e764	It's the way most of us would wish that we didn't have this debate, that we hadn't been able to stand here again in the staging room and debate another crisis package. There are many who are not only tired, but terribly tired, both physically and not least mentally. That's why I'm glad it's a Workers' Party-Center Party government that's now running the country. Today we strengthen the municipalities by 100 million. D to low-threshold mental health services in municipalities. I'm going to give you 20 million. to strengthen the mental health of students. Not least, we're strengthening regional health companies by 1.5 billion. kr. This is money to go to corona-related expenses. This is about strengthening a good and public health service that is ready to help us all, but most of all it is a health service that is ready to help the most vulnerable. It's about wanting to build up the competence of the public. It's not about us being allergic to the private. The representative Hoksrud produced it as if this government had sky posters. It is a little strange when the representative Hoksrud comes from a party that believes that the market can solve everything. It can solve health problems, it can solve care for the elderly, and it can not solve the challenges of the school system at all — just not electricity. We have noticed that in the debate over the past few weeks. I've met the young people and the families of those who have been in a parallel crisis, and there are probably more who have done it lately. The fact that we're strengthening this is a help on the way, but I'm not sure if the crisis we're in will necessarily disappear even though the pandemic will hopefully disappear. Our king gave us a fine New Year's speech this year, and I want to end with his words. He said that when we are cut off from social life for a long time, it does something to us. It's not easy to go back to what things were like before. He hopes that we can practice this, and he says that he hopes that in meeting each other we will give us that chance to practice being social, and also to be together again. Some of us need extra help with that, and that's what this crisis package is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e779	For many of us, the main challenges associated with the coronary apathy are irritation over the mouthbands, Teams meetings and social constraints, but for others, it is much more dramatic. Both the pandemic and the power crisis hit those who have the most trouble from before. For the Centre Party, it is important to set up measures that will help to make everyday life a little less demanding for those who are now most affected by the pandemic. At the same time, we must take into account that there are clear trends in pressures in the economy. It is important to follow closely the situation and phase out the economic crisis measures as the measures for the protection of infection are stepped down, in order to avoid an increase in interest rates as a result of wage and price pressures. We also need to take advantage of the opportunity to learn from the exceptional situation we have been in over the last two years, through a thorough evaluation that can make us better equipped on a later occasion. In the weeks ahead it is expected that there may be more insertions and more illness. It requires that more vaccines are put in place, that sufficient testing and resources are available to enable healthcare to withstand increased pressures in the near future. Means will also be needed to cover infection protection equipment and measures to ensure winter manning. Therefore, increased appropriations have been made available to the health sector and to Nav to deal with the consequences of the pandemic in 2022. We have lived with the pandemic for a long time, and unfortunately children and young people have had to bear much of the burden. Home schooling, closed leisure activities and other infectious diseases have contributed to increased solitude and more isolation at home. Unfortunately, more people who already have a hard time have got it worse. We know that this crisis is raging, and even if the measures to prevent infection have been eased again, the pandemic still has a major impact on the lives of children and young people. A package of measures aimed at children, young people and vulnerable groups is therefore allocated money. The money will go to various voluntary measures, such as social activities, helplines and measures to prevent violence and abuse. In addition, the lowthreshold provision for mental health in municipalities is reinforced by 100 million. kr. Another group that has been particularly demanding is the students, who have had to deal with digital education instead of normal lectures, colloquiums and student activities. Many have also lost part-time jobs that they had alongside the studies. In addition to increased flow grants, funding is therefore provided to maintain study progress and to improve psychosocial follow-up and mental health among students. Hopefully, both the students and all of us have a brighter meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e792	It is always nice to listen to the representatives from the Workers' Party talk about health services. Yes, we agree that you should have a good public health service, but it is about having been in a pandemic that has made it impossible to have the capacity of the public hospitals that you would normally have, because you have had to redispatch and prioritize using the resources in another way. It sounds nice and nice to say that everyone should be given the opportunity to receive treatment in public hospitals, but the challenge is that the capacity is not there – that you have to step down and tell people that they do not get the treatment they need, because we cannot do it now. But there's free capacity in private. Then it is touching to hear someone say that you should only be allowed to stand in line anymore, because you cannot use the capacity that is with the private people. I believe that for people – for Hans and Per and everyone else in this country – the most important thing is that we actually get help and treatment, not who delivers it. That's what this is about – whether you should get help or whether you should be in line. What we see is that it's the red-green parties – the working party, the centre party, SV and Red – which are the biggest champions for those who can afford to buy in the health queue, while those who can't afford to pay themselves are the ones who have to wait longer in line. For the Advancement Party, it is much more important that all those who need it receive treatment. In addition, you know that you pay less for each treatment at your home because you have a tender and that they have to deliver as well or better. You can see that the price might be down to 40 pst. lower than that in a public hospital. Yes, that's smart, because it's about the quality of life of the people who are going to get the treatment that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV will have to wait longer in line. The party of progress does not want them to stand in line. We want them to be treated. That's what's most important for the Progress Party, and that's why we have proposed to allocate more money to treat people. Then I have to go back to ASAP, which was a company that took responsibility. They started by producing vector coats together with other private companies, who also took that responsibility. They took the challenge, they put it on, they stood on to help all those who needed it, and made sure we got infectious equipment. The thanks are that ASAP and Astrid in Skien have had to shut down the production of infectious coats because they were not able to continue to deliver to the public. The same thing can now happen with Inovern from April, and we have a Minister of Finance who sits completely passive and does not want to. What was heard yesterday from the Minister of Finance showed at least that he did not take these seriously. I think you should take them seriously and thank them for the amazing job they did when it really was on and we needed all the help we could get to secure the population and those who were in the first-line service, infective equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e801	What we're doing in this round is strengthening our community health service in the meeting with the pandemic. If there's one thing the pandemic has taught us, it's that a strong public health service is a huge advantage. Then it is strange to listen to the Progress Party, which believes that we are now going to use private to a much, much larger extent. There is nothing new from that edge – if we had followed their strategy, we would not have had a strong public health service in the meeting with the pandemic. The underlying thing is that we're giving a billion more to regional health companies. If they assess that we need to make use of private contracts, that possibility lies there. I trust at least quite a lot more that the professionals we have in health companies do the best assessments, and I listen to them and give them the opportunity to make that assessment, than that Bård Hoksrud does it through the Stortinget. So it's like we're doing a lot of powerful actions just to strengthen our response to the pandemic. I'm also worried about the pandemic, which many people have talked about. The students get extra help – I myself have been a teacher and I have seen students who have had major challenges with the pandemic – and then it is important that we take action now, and we do so by strengthening the work for children and young people through an action package. But it's also important that we now take ourselves out of the pandemic, and on the way through the pandemic, that we also need to strengthen the rest of the work. Then I am happy to see the escalation plan for mental health and alcohol coming. It's also going to be a strong contribution to people and young people getting the opportunity to take back their lives and feel mastery. I hope that we can now focus on our common healthcare. It's the one that has helped us through the pandemic, it's the one that has helped us to stand strong now. Then I think it's the wrong direction to go in Stortinget that we're going to use private blind. I think that's the wrong recipe. The recipe is to strengthen the public health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e812	There's a difference in the cost of things, including health care. Performing a knee operation is significantly more reasonable than having an emergency or mental health function. And the representative Hoksrud is quite unreasonable here in the pulpit, I must say, when he says that those who disagree with him will have long queues. Who in the world wants long queues? I've never heard anyone in politics wanting long queues. Of course you don't. What we're talking about is, how do you get the most help you can get? How do you get enough health professionals? How do you make sure you get the help you need, when you need it, all over the country, regardless of the money book? That's what this is all about. It's not surprising, but if you're going to follow the line to the Progress Party, you're clearly going to get a two-thirds of the health service. You hear the market logic turn on when Bård Hoksrud stands up here and talks about it being a pity for those who can't just buy for better health care. It says a little bit about how to think about health care, that you have to compete, and you have to buy good health care. No, you shouldn't, because the public should provide a common, good health service to all of us, who have helped us through the pandemic, instead of, as Mr. Bård Hoksrud wants, giving the private freedom of establishment and thus a suction tube right into the community box. That's what it is, because the more you spend on the private, the fewer you get to the local hospitals. That's it, whether you like it or not. That's why we're taking the choices that we're making. So I just want to say that no one is allergic to using private providers, but I trust our health care professionals, who use the private ones as a supplement today where you need it. There you have tenders to get the quality you need to supplement the public. It's happening today. In addition, hospital choice is free in this country. So it's in many ways a skin debate that the representative Bård Hoksrud pulls out. And one thing is certain: the government that is now sitting is going to do everything it can to make sure that this health care system is as good as possible, and in addition, we're going to have a mental health boost. Eight years have passed. The so-called golden rule wasn't met one of the eight years. Now you get a real boost, which is about more ears in, and more people can get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e823	The representative Myrseth said in his previous speech – it is difficult to keep track of all the points in the debate here – that this government, unlike the previous one, has come up with financial measures and compensation schemes at the same time as the measures to protect infection. It's a strange statement that can't be contradicted by this pulpit. I'm wondering which of those who have been followed by the anti-pollution measures, who are actually talking to and not talking to representatives of the government parties. In any case, one could not have spoken with a mass catering and outdoor activities, which went on demonstration trains outside this house after the middle of the Christmas season to be introduced new anti-infection measures without it being clear what financial compensation arrangements were in place – and it took a long time before they came into place. One cannot talk to actors in cultural life. A wide range of actors in cultural life have been quite clear that, to put it diplomatically, there has not been any faster, clearer and more targeted assistance from this government than from the previous few to the new rounds of infection prevention measures we have had. Frustration has been growing both in the food and outdoor industries and in cultural life in recent times. We think of all the rounds around the payroll scheme before Christmas where one had to go extra rounds, and that had to be put at the pressure of both big business, the media and even from the EEA agreement its monitoring body ESA in order to actually put in place a wage support scheme, which the finance minister and the government initially said was not possible. One has spent weeks and months setting up a national compensation scheme, even though a scheme was completed from the previous government. One has chosen to run new rounds, and even after the treatment in this room, it is not clear exactly how this national compensation scheme can be used for small enterprises with active owners. There should be one coming back in new rounds. It should be evaluated after the Storting has now decided on the permissions of these schemes. There has been a lot of good in handling both from the previous government and from it, but when it comes to creating the impression that this government, unlike the previous one, has been on the hook and is ready to take action at the same time as the measures against infection have been introduced, in my view, are simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e832	When I heard the representative from the Left now, who is almost a bit indignant about the payroll scheme, it is good to remind the representative from the Left that last January the Stortinget decided to have a payroll scheme, while the Left put in government and made sure that it did not happen. There's something about remembering their own story in those discussions. When we got the government power and started discussing the payroll scheme, we were concerned that we were actually going to set up a payroll scheme that works, and be willing to do so, not just adopt it in Stortinget. It was adopted in Stortinget also under the previous government, but that government did not. Now it's done, and it helps businesses. So to the representative of the Progress Party: sometimes when I'm listening to Hoksrud, I want to remind him a little bit about the story. Norway has had three ministers of public health. A hot Åse Michaelsen, there was a lady named Sylvi Listhaug, and a guy named Terje Søviknes. These are the only three public health ministers we've had. It is strange that they did not do anything about the national preparedness production of infectious disease protection equipment. I don't remember how many justice ministers we had in the last period, but we had at least someone named Amundsen, Anundsen, Listhaug, Wara and Kallmyr. I think Sandberg was in a little walk too. At least the Progress Party was responsible for the Minister of Preparedness. Almost all the last eight years, at least in seven of them, it was the Progress Party that was responsible for the Minister of Emergency Response. When the Progress Party has had three of the three Ministers for Public Health who have been, and they have had the Minister for Emergency Response, it is strange that they did nothing to bring up national production of infectious diseases equipment. Now they have suddenly become so concerned about it, while when they had power, it was not material at all. Unlike the Workers' Party-Center Party government, which actively writes for it – that we want to look at how we can facilitate the production of national infectious diseases on a preparedness basis – the previous government and the Progress Party, which have had the Council of State in both the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and in the area of public health, did nothing. I don't know what happened in the Progress Party last fall – a kind of awakening that all they had done for eight years was wrong, or that it wasn't significant when they had power, for example. When Tord Lien gave the concession to two of the last foreign tables and said he was tired of low electricity prices, and when former finance minister Siv Jensen was the finance minister who has ever had the highest taxes on electricity. It's some amazing change of mood, so if Bård Hoksrud is going to take the floor again: I know a government council can't say that, but a magnificent can say, "Sorry for everything we did for eight years, and that we've been so worried about it now, but didn't do anything about it before.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e848	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e853	There's something called goldfish memory. Then you have a few seconds. The representative of the Left may have done so, for the last Minister of Industry came from the very Left, Iselin Nybø. I'm pretty sure the players in the business and the cultural industry are thinking something quite different than that representative from the Left is now trying to get ahead. It took place from August to February last year before a new support scheme was put in place. It was the time when business stood without help and support. That's the story of the last government. And there was never any suggestion of wage support scheme, compensation. You almost had to pull the previous government through the street to get it in place. This government came to drawers and lockers that were completely empty in terms of arrangements. So in a short time you've gotten a lot, but of course we're still going to keep listening.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e860	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e865	I must probably almost think about it, so I thought it was a Distinguished Vedum I heard in the pulpit. The representative Myrseth said that the public should be responsible for most of the healthcare system, and that it should be as good as possible. Yes, that's great and fine, but the consequence is that more people will be in line, as long as you don't want to use the available capacity that's there. When I heard one of the representatives from the Workers' Party say that the Advance Party wants everything now to be private, and that only private people are going to provide health services, I think you might have to read the proposal again. It states quite clearly: ‘to relieve public health, use the available free private capacity’. For me, that doesn't mean you're going to take over, but that actually means you're going to help. That is what this proposal is actually about. It's about those who need surgery getting it as fast as possible because we want them to be healthy as quickly as possible and not hurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e874	When one hears the earlier government parties and the support party their description of reality, it's worth remembering some things. As it was said, when it comes to wage support, the Storting made a glistening clear decision one year ago that a person wanted to make it work out, but it was removed by the previous government. In the same drawer, there was an order from Stortinget for action at high power prices. Tina Bru put it in the drawer. This is the history of the previous government. This is where the "goldfish memory" has been used. One thing that has impressed the debate is the Minister of Finance, who has managed to frame all the Ministers of Justice of the Progress Party and not least the three Ministers of Public Health of the Progress Party. In the event of a new round in White or Double, I would recommend that the Council of State be included in the category «Ministers of Public Health». We're going from a government that hoped it would go well, that didn't take it so badly, to a government that says, "We're going to bet on readiness." The preparedness and security of the inhabitants is one of the main tasks of this government. Therefore, on Friday, a total preparedness commission will be set up. That's why we were concerned about, when we deal with this proposition in Stortinget, that we should learn from the crisis response, because there will be new crises. They're not sure they'll be the same as we're in now, but there'll be new crises. I would particularly like to stress this with national medical production and the readiness to produce infectious diseases equipment in Norway – it needs to be put in place in the future. It also underscores the plurality of its comments. Today, we are discussing measures against the corona, but when it comes to new crises, we need to think wider. It can be infectious diseases, it can be related to food supply. The list of things to go wrong is long. But today's discussion shows that we have a completely different thinking when it comes to preparedness and security than what has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e885	The representative, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, has spoken twice before and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e890	It is approaching the end of this debate, but when the representative Myrseth says that one came to a toolbox that was empty, no action was in place, and everything had to be done again, it is not right. It's a statement that can't stand as it is. The pillar here has been the municipal compensation scheme that has been formed. It's a system that's been important. There I agree with the Minister of Finance, that is the most precise and accurate arrangement we have. She has rightly been used by both the previous and the new government. There was also a clear national compensation scheme. It was just a click on the button and use it. The new government decided not to do it because it wanted to do it differently. It's an honest thing. But the system was there and was ready to be used. One has had the system attached to the permit, one has had different types of fees, which have been extended and used. So that there was an empty toolbox when a new government came up is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e895	Since we talked about memory, I really had an ambition to list all the breaches of the Central Party's promises since they came into government – i.e. during the first 100 days – in relation to what they promised before they came into government. But then my memory didn't run out. It's almost a bit funny at the bottom of a debate to record that suddenly the government parties' representatives become very high and dark. Then, of course, they have to shoot at the previous government – they have to, of course – but they also have to shoot at the Advance Party. Then I want to say to the representative Cecilie Myrseth, who said that there is no one who wants long health cows, that no, I don't think nobody does. But the result of the policy being pursued is that it is, and has become, very long health cows. It is quite strange that there are a number of other countries in Europe that are able to have a much better and closer cooperation between public and private, including in health. It works great, so they have far, far, much shorter queues. So it's ideological skyscrapers that make the Workers' Party not able to accept that there's free capacity in private, which we could have used in an emergency at least now, because the infection is predicted to increase. This means that there'll be an extra pressure on the health care system even in the period we're going into now, although hopefully it'll decrease. So it's about electricity prices that yes, there's probably someone who can go by themselves and admit that maybe you should have taken strong action a lot earlier, especially on the internal network in Norway, but I also have to remember that we had historically low electricity prices in 2020. And then I have to remind the Center Party that it is not the Advance Party that has gone into the gap for electrification and that everything is going from fossil to renewable. There are quite other parties that have helped us to have a reinforced process in that direction, and there is at least no reason to believe that increased electrification of the socket, or a triple of the CO2 charge, will contribute to lower energy prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e904	Thank you for a good debate – I’m not going to help extend it, I would have thought. I just want to explain a little bit about our vote. The main weight of what we are going to vote is reported in advance, so I don't have to go through it, but we also want to report that we are voting in favour of proposal No. 29, from the Progress Party. It is simply a matter of believing that it is a pragmatic approach in being able to use the available capacity, especially at a time when there may be pressure on capacity. That is why we are voting in favour of that proposal, that there is an opportunity to use it to the extent that it is needed. So I just want to add another little thing. The representative Myrseth is so concerned to point out that the measures and arrangements come in parallel with the disease protection measures. Then I just want to remind you that today is 24 January, not early in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e911	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. It's partly about memory. I'm not going to try out any previous government councils or election vows or the kind of thing, but one thing I remember is a year back in time, from the work of the finance committee. The opposition then sat together – at some Teams meetings, but a majority in Stortinget – and discussed because the economic crisis management of the government at that time did not meet its objectives. There was an uproar, and there were major shortcomings in the government's economic crisis management. Among other things, it expressed the wish for wage support, which we have also discussed here today, and which is also adopted. A year ago, then, a minority government had been formed by the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, which was at the back of economic crisis management. The measures did not come quickly enough, and the majority of the population, from the SV to the Progress Party, saw the need to overrun the government of the time with powerful financial measures. Now we have a government that does not have a majority in the United Kingdom either, but that ensures a broad majority behind the decisions taken here today. It may show that the government has made a better deal with the economic crisis measures in this demanding phase of the pandemic, where the economy is going well, but individuals and individual industries are still struggling. I would like to thank you again for a good debate, and then I am pleased that the economic crisis management now provides a greater degree of predictability for people and businesses struggling with the consequences of the coronary apathy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e920	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e934	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e943	Case No. 1–4 is the second time that legal acts are dealt with and apply to legal acts 32 to 35. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e957	A total of 29 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from the Helge Orten on behalf of the Right the proposals No 4 to 14 and paragraphs 29, from Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 15-22, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Rødt the proposals No 23–25, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of Left proposal No 26, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA the proposals No 27 and 28, from Kjell Ingolf Roupstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requires the government to use the available free private capacity to relieve the public health system. This is particularly important in the context of an expected infection peak in January/February, which will further burden hospitals, as well as primary health services and emergency services. Also ensure that as many planned operations as possible, etc. may be implemented as planned using the ready-to-use free private capacity.’;» The Right, Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e995	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to set a target that the proportion of passengers by collective and rail, corridors and bicycles should rise to the same level as before the pandemic and then continue to grow as a contribution to achieving the climate goals.’ Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e1012	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e3202	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e5383	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-five, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for changes in the support schemes for the cultural sector so that several cultural institutions are covered by the scheme, including large private scenes that are currently excluded from the scheme.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e5400	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure adequate funding for the collective offer so that the collective offer is at least as good after the pandemic as it was before the pandemic.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e5417	There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e7325	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17, 19 and 22, from Red. Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to return to the Stortinget in the revised national budget of 2022 with proposals for increased corporate tax from the income year 2023.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the incentive scheme for cultural actors until 1 August 2022. Thereafter, the Storting considers further extension of the scheme towards other measures.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the cancellation of outstanding interest payable on deferred tax claims for enterprises in sectors affected by State or municipal disease protection measures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e7353	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 20, from Red. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the compensation scheme and the incentive scheme for the cultural sector are governed by rules.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a plan for the restoration and strengthening of the cultural sector after the pandemic.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e7377	There is a vote on proposal No. 16 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to set down a public body to assess how the coronary apathy affects inequality in society, to monitor economic differences and accumulation of wealth due to the crisis, and to assess measures against inequality and unfair gain.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e7394	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e9338	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 14 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the trade union movement, is asked to introduce a national compensation scheme for health workers working in hospital departments who have had an extra heavy burden due to covid-19.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that organisations engaged in youth education and knowledge travel do not reduce their income base as a result of the pandemic.’ Red, the Green and Christian People's Party has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e9362	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the forthcoming tender takes account of national needs for preparedness by weighting the award criteria and by dividing the acquisition so that small and medium-sized enterprises are taken into account.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to explore the possibility of concluding long-term contingency agreements with Norwegian producers in order to ensure that the country is best prepared for future crises.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e9387	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that private health operators with additional costs related to the pandemic are compensated for.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e9404	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 10 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that corporations that give away food for charity because of the coronation situation do not have to pay taxes and value added tax by applying already established exceptional provisions.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to put forward a motivation scheme to bring back former intensive nurses who are currently working in other professions, so that they can relieve the pressure on the health care system.’ Red, Left, Green and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e9428	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend state aid schemes to the cultural sector so that they are based on the same assumptions as general industrial subsidy schemes.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e9445	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that the right to pay in instalments under both arrangements for the temporary deferral of tax payments does not cease even if the prescribed payment deadlines are not met.» Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e9462	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e11227	Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the prompt return of proposals for the reintroduction of the aviation guarantee scheme or other equivalent compensation scheme to support the aviation industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e11241	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked not to calculate interest on late payment on deferred tax claims for the period from 15 January to 31 March 2022.’; The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e11258	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that operations at Norwegian airports are maintained in the pandemic and that a case is brought to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with an assessment of the situation and the necessary measures to ensure operation at both State and non-state airports.’ The Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e11275	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an analysis of developments in the demand for collective travel in 2022 in the context of the revised national budget and the economic impact it has on the municipalities and collective societies.’ Red, Left, Green and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e11292	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e15363	Behind this is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e15420	Behind this is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Right, Red and Christian People's Party have announced support for the vote. The Procedural Party has notified subsidized aid. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e15439	Several have reported that the vote was not recorded. Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e15451	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e15465	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e15484	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-24.ana.ud114e15573	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
