ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e92	Honourable co-representatives! On April 16, 2020, former PFC Arne Nilsen from Voss died, 96 years old. Nilsen represented the Workers' Party and Hordaland for five periods, from 1965 to 1985. In this time he was entrusted with a number of heavy duties, among others. as Chairman of the Municipal Committee and the Financial Committee. With its rapporteur's background from Voss, the municipalities and workplaces in the districts of Arne Nilsen were close at heart. It was also the Ministry of Local Affairs and Labour that he came to when Odvar Nordli picked up as the Council of State in 1978. In the fall of 1979 he became Social Minister and continued as the first government of Gro Harlem Brundtland. Arne Nilsen began in the NSB at the age of 17, and the railway school remained his highest formal education. The railway background he shared with several distinct workers' party politicians throughout his generation. They were gladly, like Arne Nilsen, characterized by a pronounced order, structure and discipline in their political work. As a coworker of Nilsen from that time says: Arne did not go to the Tostrup cellar, he went home and read documents. Many will remember Arne Nilsen as the very plotting, serious in his work, speech and writing stylistics, and uncompromising in his new Norse. A steady, knowledgeable and secure politician. At the same time, he was a prominent social democrat, ready for his basic vision and committed to the latter. As a 16-year-old Arne Nilsen had seen the Vangen childhood home bombed by German planes, and he threatened himself with illegal work during the war. As he spent his whole life seeing the value of peace, he saw the value of a society that provides opportunities for everyone. The working class boy and the railway man who became a big man and the council had experienced it himself. We bring peace to Arne Nilsen's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e113	A number of permit applications are available: – from the representatives of Ingvild Wetterhus Thorsvik, Lise Christoffersen, Lise Selnes, Even Eriksen, Linda Hofstad Helleland and Ingjerd Schou on leave from 25 to 29 April – all for participation in the session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg. – by the Group of the Right on the leave of the representative Trond Helleland from 25 to 29 April in order to attend meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO in Dallas and Washington, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet in Stortinget from 26 to 28 April: For West Agder: Emma Georgina Lind For Buskerud: Kristin Ørmen Johnsen and Solveig Vestenfor For Hedmark: Bente Irene Aaland and Håvard Sagbakken Saanum For South Treading Team: Guro Angell Gimse For Eastfold: Fredrik Holm
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e177	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e182	On behalf of Morten Stordal and myself, I have the honour of presenting a proposal for a representative to cut the ferry ticket on Nordøyvegen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e187	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. The cases relate to the second processing of legal acts and to the laws of 58–60.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e231	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e247	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to seven lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e258	I want to thank you for your commitment to our ideal hospitals. Sjukehusa, hereinafter referred to in the representative proposal, contributes with the necessary capacity in the healthcare sector. There's no doubt that there's a cross-political commitment to our ideal contributors. They have long-term contracts with healthcare professionals and provide treatment on behalf of the public. Minister for Health and Health Mr Ingvild Kjerkol has expressed his opinion on the proposal. There has been no call to the proposal for a representative. The Council of State states that ideal hospitals should be compensated in the same way as other health care providers, and that non-discrimination penalties should be well integrated with regional health care providers. In the opinion of the Council of State on the proposal for a representative, it is recalled that in February of this year, Health South-East of the Governing Council discussed proposals for compensation for coronary effects from the second half of 2021, and the Council of State wrote: «Health South-East RHF has confirmed that the proposal for the distribution of compensation implies that the Diakon home and Lovisenberg are treated in the same way as the public hospitals.» We show that the decision of Health South-East states that the Diakon home Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital are among the hospitals receiving compensation: ‘The Board agrees that a total compensation of SEK 186.7 million is granted to the Hospital Østfold HF, Vestre Viken HF, Diakonhomemmet Hospital Hospital, Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital and Martina Hansen’s Hospital for economic added stress at the Coronapandemy in the second half of 2021.’ The decision of the Board of Health South-East and the allocation of compensation funds to the Diakon home Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital show that ideal hospitals are treated in the same way as the public owned ones. The proposal from the representatives is that ideal hospitals should be compensated for their costs related to the pandemic in the same way as the public, followed by the regional health agency. Otherwise, the centre party has a great commitment to the ideal actors and will work to make sure it's careful, and for long-term contracts for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e277	Of course, I support what has just come from the case rapporteur, Mr Klungland. So I'd like to say a big thank you to everyone who's done an important job for a long time with pandemics. Of course, this also involves the job that the ideals have done. The ideal hospitals, and especially the ideal local hospitals in Oslo and Bergen, have been important for the handling of the preparedness we have sorely needed. They have helped to take good care of their patients, and they have also been involved in relieving hospitals that have been under-burdened. I am also pleased that this matter has been resolved long before it was dealt with at Stortinget. At the same time, it was important to have the accounts and the actual costs on the table before the RHFs could pay the compensation. Hospitals have been compensated for their expenses and are satisfied today. I was before Easter visiting the Diakon home Hospital here in Oslo, and I am impressed by how they have managed to turn around, be creative and secure their patients. In addition, they have relieved Aarhus with more than 300 patients with corona. In the Hurdal platform, the Workers' Party and the Centre have said clearly that we want to cooperate more and more closely with the ideals. We're doing great. The ideal hospitals are already an integral part of our common healthcare service and are crucial for the 420 000 who have an ideal hospital as their local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e290	Once the corona compensation has been allocated to the regional health establishments, the non-profit hospitals have not automatically received a share of the compensation from their regional health establishments. It is quite obvious to the right that hospitals such as Lovisenberg and the Diakon home have to be compensated for the additional financial burden of the coronary apex in the same way as the public hospitals. The hospitals have relieved both Oslo University Hospital and Akershu University Hospitals in addition to having a care-care-responsibilities for parts of the population living in Oslo. Hospitals were compensated for specific pandemic costs for 2020, and it is good that Health South-East decided to compensate for private and non-profit hospitals also for 2021. Since this matter has been resolved, the right of the representative proposal does not vote, but the right will remind you that when the representative proposal was promoted, the ideal hospitals had not been compensated for their costs related to the pandemic. What's not good is the uncertainty these actors have had about whether they're being compensated or not. In the right, public opinion must ensure predictability, long-termity and flexibility in its cooperation with non-profit and private actors. We cannot take for granted that all good forces will storm and help when at the same time you have such uncertainty for your own economy and future. Right-wing emphasises that the key preparedness of private and non-profit actors in crisis will not be there if it is not part of the welfare mix even in everyday life. Ideal and private health professionals play a major role in the patient’s health care. In addition to the day-to-day patient care provided by these actors, they have contributed, through the coronary apathy, to all the necessary assistance and preparedness for a hard-pressed public health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e299	There are many who have stood on and contributed under the pandemic. The whole community was put to work to prevent infection, disease and death. At the same time, some have been available and have set up more than others. It will be obvious that ideal hospitals, who have assisted and taken financial losses as a result of the pandemic, will have their financial losses covered. It's about ensuring the capacity both below and after the pandemic. It is also clear, as the rapporteur pointed out, that health south-east has granted compensation to both Diakonihemmet Hospital Hospital and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital in line with public hospitals, which the Council of State also refers to in its reply to the committee on the occasion of the proposal for a representative. At the same time, the Progress Party believes that we should not forget the great effort that has been made by the private actors through the pandemic. Both non-profit and private health care establishments have made important contributions in order to reduce health cows and to assist in pandemic management. Therefore, it should have been obvious that both private and non-profit actors were compensated for the additional costs they have incurred, as the majority in this room say no. I refer to that proposal of which the Progress Party is part, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that private health operators with additional costs related to the pandemic are compensated for.’ Unfortunately, this is only supported by the Patient Focus. In order to have a diverse and strong health sector, we rely on a good interaction between public, private and non-profit institutions. Under the pandemic, the public used by private actors to ensure infection protection and relief. The private had free capacity, and the contribution was large. Therefore, it is sad to see that the government and the left has gone to battle against the private actors that the public itself proved to be completely dependent on in a crisis situation. No one in Stortinget believes that private actors should take over the entire public offer, but the private must be a strengthened complement to public health. Going to the fight against private operators will only lead to longer health cows and fewer Norwegian patients getting the help they need. It's because the left side acts with ideological skylights, where it's who performs the service, that counts, and not the quality of the services provided. The contribution we have received from private and non-profit actors under the pandemic has been important. Their contribution will still be. It should therefore be obvious that they are not penalised financially for contributing to the control of the pandemic. I bring up the proposal of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e323	The representative Morten Wold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e328	Several of the ideal hospitals have traditions that are longer than our welfare state. All the money they get from the public goes back into the service and becomes well-being of the population. The non-profit hospitals are and shall be a subsidy to the public services. This requires a predictable framework to ensure that they can operate good services with long-term objectives. We must ensure them economic security, even in times of crisis. The right-hand side and the commercial stakeholder organisations often refer to private healthcare as one thing. We believe that the term private health services covers two completely different types of establishments: the commercial and the ideals. The diversity and professional development, which are often portrayed as the valuable thing about the private sector, are the ideal actors. We will not support the proposals of the Progress Party, because commercial players have profit motives and are fundamentally different from ideal actors. Where a number of private commercial health professionals have made a lot of money, ideal hospitals have had extra costs and have seen an uncertain time in front of them. The commercials have already taken out a lot of profit. It makes little sense to compensate them further. At the same time, the coronary apathy has incurred considerable expenses and unpredictable circumstances in the ideal hospitals. In 2021, the situation was very demanding for Oslo's two ideal hospitals, the Diakon home and Lovisenberg. They took over 150 million. kr in deficit in the year due to increased expenditure and lost revenue as a result of the pandemic, for which Health South-East had not compensated them until after this proposal was made. In a situation where they contributed, among others: necessary intensive capacity, they were in fact at risk of bankruptcy. Fortunately, Health South-East has now compensated the ideal hospitals for the additional costs associated with the pandemic for 2021. We support the proposal of the Christian People's Party, because we are concerned about the uncertainty that has shaped the ideal actors, and we are also concerned that it may reappear. Ideal hospitals must be able to be confident that they can continue to carry out their social mission, even in the face of crises. With that, I address the proposal that Red is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e341	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e346	Ideal hospitals are not just a contribution to the public. They are actually an integral part of the treatment in Oslo and in Health South-East. In the difficult time that the pandemic was, these two hospitals offered to the Norwegian people and to us, to administer treatment on behalf of the Norwegian state. They've done a job on behalf of all of us. I think it is very good that Health South-East in February this year made the payment for 2021, but the uncertainty for those who were going to make the budgets in these hospitals around New Year's, was quite great, because they did not know if they had it covered. They got covered a lot. It wasn't a hundred percent, but it was so much that the two hospitals said they were satisfied with it. The whole basis for this proposal is that this uncertainty must be removed. We can talk about the Hurdal platform and that one should have closer cooperation with ideal hospitals, but then they have to have predictability of the economic operation in the future. There may be new waves with other types of pandemics, or the pandemic we've been up in now can flourish again. Then the ideal hospitals deserve something other than that after, once and for all, they should apply to cover what they have contributed. The ideal hospitals deserve better. They are an important part of our preparedness. That is why I am concerned that we can ask the government to ensure predictability by deciding this for the future – that it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e357	The proposal by the representatives that ideal hospitals should be compensated financially for the corona consequences in line with the other health establishments in the country is fully in line with the guidance signals given. The message of non-discrimination between private non-profit hospitals and our public health establishments is well integrated into regional health businesses, and non-discrimination is a fundamental principle when health regions allocate funds allocated by the Stortinget. This principle is evident in both governance issues where Health South-East RHF allocates funds to cover the economic consequences of the pandemic in 2021 to its own health businesses and to the ideal hospitals in the region. For example, for the second half of the year 2021. the two ideal hospitals of the Diakon home and Lovisenberg together 44 pst. of the total distributed compensation granted by the regional health undertaking. The allocation addressed specific challenges for precisely these two hospitals. Through the pandemic, non-profit hospitals, together with health businesses, have taken responsibility and contributed positively to addressing the challenges facing healthcare. I'm proud of that and happy about it. The private non-profit hospitals that have operational arrangements with regional health establishments constitute important parts of the hospital provision in their regions. In the Hurdal platform, the government has been clear that the non-profit sector needs to be supported and that the sector needs to be secured with good framework conditions and predictable operations. However, the pandemic has been anything but predictable — it has had different consequences around the country, at different times. I have noticed that when Health South-East RHF allocated funds for the second half of 2021, they took into account any over- or under-coverage of the allocation for the first half of the year – which was partly made on the basis of the estimated pandemic costs. This resulted in actual over-coverage of own health businesses and under-coverage of non-profit hospitals for the first half of the year being adjusted to the final allocation for 2021. I would like to assure the representatives that the principle of non-discrimination is supported, and I am pleased that the majority in the Committee seems to agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e374	Lovisenberg and the Diakon home have relieved both Oslo University Hospital and Akershu University Hospitals in addition to being responsible for caring for parts of the population living in Oslo. Does the State Council believe that the ideal and private actors have been important to the preparedness of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e379	The two hospitals mentioned by the representative are a fully integrated part of the specialist healthcare service in this region. They have an operating contract, and they are local hospitals for parts of the population. In this way they are quite equal and make a joint effort under the pandemic. Health South-East is one of the regions where you've been very good at relieving yourself under the pandemic. It is also that part of the country, especially represented by Ahus, which has had most of the inside, for example. in the intensive care unit. So I think they've all made a big effort, and I'm both proud and happy to see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e384	Ideals are an integral part, as the Council of State says. The council chooses to answer only for the ideals and not the private ones, although I also asked if she believes that the private actors have been important for the preparedness during the pandemic. The government has an explicit ambition to increase capacity, so that we can get away from the tops when we have health crises, like under a pandemic. At the same time, the government governs on a platform that will terminate all commercial operations of welfare services. How does the Council of State think this is going to go up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e389	This government has a clear direction for health and welfare policy, where we want to strengthen the Community's capacity to provide good welfare services as far as possible, as far as possible. Then we must also ensure that we cooperate with private people in such a way that they serve the interests of the community. There are several chapters in the Hurdal platform that mention. The chapters I am responsible for implementing are quite clear. I have met the representative Bruflot in many debates on this. I don't think there's any doubt that a government consisting of the Workers' Party and the Center's main objective is to ensure good and equivalent health care for all citizens throughout the country, and that the strategy to achieve it is agreements with private actors that meet the needs of the community to manage resources according to patients' needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e394	It is not surprising that we meet in debate about this often, it is because I feel that I am not getting an answer. Now the Council of State, on the one hand, says that they should cooperate with private welfare services in health, while at the same time there is a verbal proposal in cooperation with SV to investigate how to phase out private health services. How in all days is it possible to do both of these things at the same time – both cooperating with them and phasing out?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e399	The representative Bruflot asked how this goes together, and then she got an answer about what is the strategy of this government. So I think to the greatest extent that I meet the representative with respect and answer the questions I get. The fact that these are not the answers the representative wants is probably also the background that we represent two different directions in politics and two different parties. It's important that I answer for what I have constitutional responsibility for when I meet in this room. To phase out the privatisation reform Free treatment choice, I believe that we are in line with our goal of ensuring that the community manages resources in such a way that we provide good and equivalent healthcare across the country. The evaluation of that scheme has shown that it does not build up under that objective, and that is one of the reasons why we wind it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e406	Then I interpret the council that the capacity you want, it goes up, and you have it because you cooperate with private people, and that phasing out private people will make the capacity not as good. Have I correctly interpreted the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e411	There's nothing in what I've said, or in the Hurdal platform, that says we're going to phase out private healthcare professionals. We have a large proportion of public health services that are carried out through contracts with private individuals. So I think that the representative Bruflot bases a very sought-after interpretation on his more rhetorical than fact-based question. We're going to have agreements with the private people that enable us to maintain good health care across the country, and we believe that it's a better way to secure the citizens' patient rights the Stortinget has given them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e416	Since it is shortly after Easter, the president should be kind and say that until now SV has not taken up their own suggestions, so if you intend to do so, it might be nice to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e421	It was the Council of State's talk of the private treatment choice that made me draw a line. I visited Modum Bad in Vikersund in the municipality of Modum the other day. It is a highly respected and recognised non-profit hospital, good in research, good in treatment, well-known both nationally and internationally. They offer treatment through private treatment options in the area of anxiety and depression to young people. They have approx. 4 500 patient days per year and represents a turnover of about 50 million. kr. They're worried that the system seems to be being removed, and what it would have to say to too many people who need their offer. I simply have to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State mean that Modum Bad does not fulfil his task within the area they are assigned to serve?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e431	Modum Bad is an institution that has had an agreement with the public for many, many years – long before the privatisation reform to the Right and the Advance Party, free treatment choice. They have provided good services and helped many patients in both drug and mental health protection, and I want them to continue. I have also been there for a visit, and I feel that they want predictability through good agreements. The fact that they also have parts of their business through the free treatment selection system is a variant that several people use, but we believe that through long-term agreements with regional health companies, we will also improve the interaction with such good treatment institutions and give them more predictability than the free treatment choice system provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e436	Then I have to challenge the state council on the quick track to which they add in terms of resolving private treatment choices. It is the consultation period of 1 July, the examination in Stortingen on the autumn, and the winding-up from 1 January – with a limited transitional period. How does the Council of State feel it is possible to phase in an offer that the Modum Bad represents with 4 500 patient days, if it is to be transferred to, for example. the public health service and is not continued at Modum Bad?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e441	I do not agree with Mr Wold. It's not a fast track. It's a piece of legislation in line with law and regulations. All the deadlines are within what is perfectly normal when you change laws in Stortinget. And we have also provided for a transitional arrangement for patients in long-term treatment, as the representative himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e446	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e451	Thank you very much, President, for both the reminder and the word! This case and the pandemic have shown, as many have been involved, the importance of good interaction between the ideal actors and the health care system for the rest. We have seen that we have a good health system that is capable of cooperating when needed, but at the same time we see that there is a need to ensure a better framework for ideal actors. That is why we in SV have proposed that the government should give regional health companies the task of setting up a framework for cost compensation for non-profit actors, because the feedback we have received – and as other representatives have referred to – shows that very many non-profit actors have had to take greater stock and live with uncertainty in the planning of their further operations. Here in Oslo, Lovisenberg is a Diakonale Hospital and the Diakon home Hospital is a local hospital for a lot of people. If they are to continue and develop their offer and provide their specialist health service, there is a need for them not to be left with unmet expenditure in the future. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e460	The representative Marian Hussein then mentioned the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e479	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e486	The right to health is a fundamental human right and health care must be available to all, without discrimination. Today we are dealing with a proposal that concerns this very fact. Anyone in Norway is currently entitled to immediate health care. The proposals we are dealing with on health care for paperless migrants are about what is beyond the emergency. The majority of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Progress Party are opposed to the proposals and various minorities support different proposals. I expect the parties to explain their views in the debate. I will also explain in the debate why Red believes that all people must have the right to health care. Now I'm going to replay some of the recordings the Committee has got into this matter: The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has criticised Norway for the restrictions on access to health care by the undocumented. Other, including: Norway’s human rights institution believes that the proposals that have been promoted will respond to the UN recommendations. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman points out that today’s restrictions may conflict with the objective of the Equality and Discrimination Act on the right to health care without discrimination. Several mention that the payment requirement is a barrier to accepting the treatment that migrants are actually entitled to, as these are people living with an extremely demanding economy. The Norwegian asylum seeker organisation mentions a woman who was required for 90 000 kroner after birth. Several hearings refer to the ‘Health Rights for ‘Paperless’ report of the Red Cross, which emphasises that the scheme ensures continuity and access to health care and that lack of access to it does not result in an adequate offer. The UNICEF Committee in Norway notes in its consultation call that the UN has specifically recommended that paperless children should be on the list of permanent posts. The Norwegian Medical Association and several others point out that there is no evidence that the provision of healthcare has an impact on whether people come to the country or whether there is a lack of such an offer makes them become. Red Cross refers to studies that reject the so-called effect of what is today referred to as immigration-regulating considerations in Norway. The Church’s Bymition refers to an EU report which concludes that providing prevention for paperless people is more cost-effective than allowing problems to develop into acute situations. This is about people who need health care. The Committee has different views on this, but we in Red support the proposals. And with that, I'm taking up the suggestions Red is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e522	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e527	We're going to take care of people in particularly vulnerable situations, but let me go to this case and make clear what are the existing rights you have today. All residents of Norway are entitled to immediate assistance from the municipal health and care services and from specialist health services. Persons without a legal stay cannot be charged for immediate assistance and health care that cannot be expected. Pregnants have the same entitlement to health care as legal and permanent residents. Those who are seriously mentally ill, and who present a danger to themselves and others, are also entitled to health care, even when they are illegally present in Norway. It is also the same right to abortion termination under the rules of the abortion law that apply, as well as infective care under the infectious diseases law. This does not mean that there are no examples that are not good. There are examples of this group not having access to the healthcare they actually require. It is not acceptable either for individuals or for society. No one has earned that people without a legal stay are afraid to seek immediate help. It is therefore very important that patients be assured that they can receive help. We recognise the need to do more to ensure that these people actually get the health care they need, because unworthy situations can arise for both adults and children if they don't. It is therefore essential that health professionals have good competence in the rights of these patients. It is therefore important and right that the government will now carry out a review to ensure that the rights of the paperless are exercised according to their intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e536	We have some rights that are universal, regardless of whether you are legally staying in Norway or not, even when it comes to health care. Everyone has a right to immediate help, help that cannot wait without a risk of death, permanent disability, serious injury or severe pain, acute mental health care, help with infectious diseases and help with birth, maternity and abortion. The purpose of the proposal for a representative is to list the patient with a doctor who knows the patient’s medical history and who can follow the patient over time. That consideration is less relevant when the right is proposed for people who are initially not entitled to stay and who are not to stay in the country over time. To set up a funding scheme for those who treat this group, so that they can get reimbursements for expenses and medicines to patients outside the population, when at the same time we have other groups that are not part of the population's fear, becomes a strenuous exercise to explain. Providing people without lawful access to the primary health service in addition to the necessary health care in the same way as others, can give a pull effect and is unfortunate as we see it. However, it is absolutely essential that patients, without a legal stay, actually receive the health care they are entitled to. Health professionals need to know that these patients have a number of rights, and it is not acceptable that the rights are not met. We can't have it that there are different practices in different parts of the country, where it's random who gets help and what kind of help they get in different hospitals. The regulatory framework is initially quite clear. Although the right does not vote in favour of the proposal for a representative and the amendments, we would stress that the universal health care rights that everyone has, irrespective of the status of residence, must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e547	Let me start by saying that all people who behave in Norway, regardless of their state of residence, will be entitled to the necessary health care when the situation so requires. The regulation on the right to health and care services for people without permanent residence in the kingdom suggests that all persons who are resident in the kingdom should have basic rights to care for life and to combat serious illness. This is the basis and starting point for this matter, which has been put forward for debate in the United Kingdom today. The representative proposal we are dealing with is, in its entirety, based on a general extension of today's rights to apply, among other things. fixed and other primary health services. Through the written hearings referred to by previous speakers, there are several institutions, among others. NIM and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, stress that there is a need to ensure that persons with this residence status are cared for as intended. On the NIM side, it is stressed that current practices may have an unintended and lacking capacity to provide patient safety. I therefore wholeheartedly support the initiative of the Council of State, which also supports the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left in the corresponding case just one year ago. I quote: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all the undocumented persons in Norway actually receive the necessary health care that cannot wait, and to review the practice of having the right to necessary health care. [[...]] It's not about figuring out new dishes, but it's about ensuring that life and health are cared for according to your intention. This government is taking this very seriously and is embarking on a clear review of today's practices and actually taking care of basic human rights. To this end, effort and will are required, not just from the state, but equally from all the municipalities of the country who have resided from their children, adults and the elderly, who live within the municipal boundaries. I am overconfident that we jointly clarify and resolve what is needed to secure this group of healthcare providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e558	Today we are discussing a recurring matter. Let me, as several of the first speakers have already pointed out, state that everyone in Norway is entitled to immediate assistance from the municipal health and care services and from the specialist health service. The proposal we are discussing today is far more extensive than immediate help and will burden the Norwegian healthcare system. So-called paperless migrants are migrants who have been denied their asylum application but who do not return to their home country. These are people who are in Norway on an illegal basis. They're not supposed to live and work here. They don't need protection. They're what most people call illegal immigrants. We already have long health cows, and there is a shortage of permanent staff in Norway. Then we have to give priority to resources, which, in the view of the Progress Party, means that we need to give priority to our own people, i.e. people who have legal residence in Norway. Of course, anyone who needs immediate health care should get it, but we cannot suggest that one can come to Norway on an illegal basis and receive public goods and health services. So-called paperless migrants have not acted on the decision to leave the country. If we provide free healthcare to illegal immigrants on the same basis as Norwegian citizens receive it, the consequence will be that more people will apply to Norway without a legal basis to benefit from our healthcare. There is a bad use of community money and resources, especially at a time when health services are still struggling with both sick leave and capacity after a pandemic that has cost the health sector a lot. In addition, it is paradoxical that the proposers would have illegal immigrants on their lists. The basic thing about the doctor is that it's a doctor you can deal with over time, and that knows the patient's course. Illegal immigrants have been denied their asylum application, and it is therefore very little intention to give them access to the fixed medical system since the decision-makers do not know the course of patients and they will have them as patients for a very long time if they respect the decision to leave the realm. It seems that the proposers want to be rusty and kind. It's a good trait, but you shouldn't be rude to someone else's wallet, which socialists are well known for. For Health-Norway has no exhaustive Sarepta jar, no matter how much you would like. That is why it is right for the majority to reject this proposal today. First of all, we must give priority to health care for Norwegian citizens and others who are legally resident in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e571	I am pleased that today's legislation is more expansive than the previous speaker said, and for example. provide access to asylum seekers. Paperless refugees have an impossible health situation in Norway. These are people with small resources who live a difficult life in Norway. They are not entitled to adequate health care like other refugees. This makes an already very difficult life situation almost unviable. Many cannot be returned and are glued by Norwegian authorities. In the ultimate sense, it means that they do not receive health care, literally leading to the loss of life. As others have pointed out, the United Nations has criticised Norway for our treatment of paperless refugees. In the past, both the Labour Party and the Centre have apparently taken this seriously, but now that they have the opportunity to change the situation, they have changed their attitude. 13 months ago, the Council of State was a major representative, and the Workers' Party agreed with SV in this case. Then they wrote in a note: ‘The members of the Labour Party Committee and the Socialist Left take it very seriously when the UN criticises Norway for breaking human rights by not offering undocumented migrants and EU citizens with no health card access to health care in line with the rest of the population. Failure to comply with the UN's appeal to change this will weaken Norway's position in the UN and the UN safety report. Other countries that commit serious violations of human rights may negate United Nations recommendations by referring to Norway’s behaviour.’» Since this comment we have had a choice and got a new number of large numbers, but unfortunately the case today shows that the basic human rights of the paperless are not as important to the government parties when they have the opportunity to change the situation. The story of Badhon Chowdury, who became a debt addict in Norway after having had children in hospitals, and the tragedy in which a man died of cancer after being denied health care in Haukeland and Haraldsplatz, shows that we need to change. We know that vulnerable women give birth involuntarily at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e587	The right to health and health care is a human right and health care should be available to all without discrimination. Many of those who are undocumented go around waiting for a disease, suffering or distress to become serious enough to be able to seek emergency health care. It creates large personal and not least socio-economic costs. In the worst cases, this could lead to a delay or absence of health care, and it could also lead to death as a consequence of waiting too long. Again, it is shown that it is the ideals that perform important health work for a group that is not included in by the country. Here, Red Cross and the Church's City Mission operate their offerings in very many large cities. Here, a variety of professionals meet different types of patient groups with different health disorders of different degrees of severity. Having to visit one of these places makes a strong impression. There comes the doctor, the specialist, the dentist, the midwife, the health nurse after a long day at work and meets those who come with the hat in their hands to get health care for their ailments. And not only that: these voluntary organisations cover both treatment and medicine for this group – such as really a human right to get help. For me, this made a strong impression. That's why the Christian People's Party is concerned that the least we can do is get a funding arrangement for the work done so fundamentally by the Red Cross and the Church's Bymission, so that they get reimbursement for the expenses they have for treatment and medicine, given to people who are outside the mainstream. They provide real health care that saves plagues, but it also saves society economically over time. That's why I'm going to take up the suggestions we're part of, even though they've been taken up before, to be sure. This case is not just about principles. It's about people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e602	All the proposals have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e608	Everyone in Norway is entitled to immediate help and health care that is absolutely necessary and therefore cannot wait. Women who wish to interrupt their pregnancy are entitled to it, persons in need of infectious care are entitled to it, and mentally unstable persons who present a near and serious risk to their own or others’ lives or health are entitled to mental health protection, regardless of their residence status. Children and pregnant women have the same entitlement to health care regardless of their residence status. A primary consideration behind the fixed medical system is to maintain continuity in the treatment relationship between the patient and the doctor. Municipalities also have an obligation to dimension the general medical service so that there is also the capacity to treat patients who are not entitled to be on the list of permanent doctors. As a general rule, persons without permanent residence in Norway are to pay for health care. No pre-payment may be required for immediate help and health care that cannot be expected. If the patient is unable to cover the costs himself, they must be covered by the health institution, the municipality or the service provider. The right to cover expenditure may be no more extensive than the right to receive healthcare. I believe that attention should be paid to ensuring that patients without a legal stay actually receive the help they are entitled to. The community has not been served the fear of seeking immediate health care without a legal stay. It is therefore important for these patients to be sure that they can receive help, and especially for parents to be sure that their children can receive health care when they need it. I believe that the legislation fulfills our international obligations. I therefore do not see the need to propose general extensions of the rights of people without permanent residence in Norway to healthcare. On the other hand, I see a need for a review to ensure that the rights are exercised according to the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e626	The Council of State said in its statement – and more people have been involved – that health care should be available, that the legislation for this is in place in a way, and that there is no need for anyone to have a fixed medical system, etc., for which we propose. At the same time, we are aware that human lives have been lost in Norway because the legislation is such that one does not receive cancer treatment, for example. And then we're aware that children don't receive anti-seizure treatment. Is the Council satisfied with the legislation as it is today, where human life is lost, and where children do not receive anti-epileptic treatment because they do not have the papers in order?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e631	I ask for understanding that I cannot comment on single events. The complaint and supervisory authorities are responsible for assessing compliance with the legislation in individual cases. I believe that our legislation fulfills our international obligations. It is also true that those in need of health care who cannot wait, or who need immediate help, have the right to do so. Therefore, I see a need for a review to ensure that the rights are practised after the intention. But unlike the representative Hussein, I do not see, nor the majority in this Chamber, the need to propose general extensions of the rights of persons without permanent residence in Norway to healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e636	I note that the Workers' Party on the Storting in opposition and the Workers' Party in government offices have different relationships with international commitments and what the UN Convention says. At the same time, I have questions to the Council of State, because in response to the Storting, the Council of State writes that providing health care to the paperless will cause more people to come to Norway. My question is: when research shows that this is not true, that people do not escape from their homes to be health tourists in Norway, I wonder what occupations the Council of State has to write to the Stortinget that more refugees to Norway for health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e643	The opinions, or the response to which the representative refers from me as the Council of State, are based on very broadly anchored immigration policy considerations and fundamental rights of necessary health care both when it cannot wait and when it is about immediate help. It's anchored in a large majority in this room, so there's nothing the Council of State thinks about or discusses with international research about. This is what the laws and regulations are like in Norway, adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e648	But the Council of State writes that providing health care to this group ‘may result in more people coming to Norway to receive free treatment. In my view, there will be an unfortunate and incorrect use of health resources.’ At the same time, I record that the Council of State now says that she has no evidence of it, either in research or anything else – other than that there should be immigration regulatory considerations. Does the Council of State think it is right that human life is lost, that children do not receive epileptic drugs, and that women fear to be born in Norwegian hospitals because immigration-regulating considerations weigh more heavily on the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e658	Now I almost want to say that it goes over the stick and stone for the representative Hussein. The Council of State has not said that she has no evidence of research. You have to stay too good to drive free poetry from the staging room. It is that all those in Norway are entitled to health care that is absolutely necessary and that cannot wait. The Code is the result of a factual discrimination based on the patient’s relationship with Norway, which is enshrined in the laws adopted by this Chamber, based on a democratic majority, and that is what a Council of State has to deal with. In many cases, persons without legal residence in Norway have also failed to decide that they should leave the country and to grant rights beyond what is in the legislation today, both the Council of State and the vast majority of the Grand Duchy feel that the wrong signal and the wrong use of resources are wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e665	Health care is a human right, and today there are some people in Norway who are denied this right. That's why the Red Cross and the Church's City Mission must do the job that the public should have done. Last year the Labour Party itself wrote that they take it seriously when the UN criticises Norway for breaking human rights by not offering paperless migrants access to health care in line with the rest of the population. This means that even both government parties agreed to evaluate the regulations in order to ensure the provision of health care to vulnerable groups such as children, persons with disabilities, pregnant women and the elderly – in line with the provision to the general population. I wonder a little about it, because is it that the Central Party and the Labour Party have stopped caring about human rights and the criticism they get when they get in position, or do they still care about the criticism the United Nations has come up with, and will do something about it – and change the law, which a Council of States can suggest?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e672	It's not like these parties have changed their mind. It is reflected in the position we are dealing with today – the same attitude that one can go back one year in time and find written from these parties. Now, I am going to defend the government and what my department has done in dealing with this proposal, and we believe that the legislation is fulfilling our international obligations. Nor do we see any need to propose general extensions of the right to healthcare that people without permanent residence in Norway have. What we see, on the other hand, is a review to ensure that the rights are practised after the intention, and that is what was stated in the comments on the case that was dealt with one year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e679	It is nice for the government to do that review, but the point here is that the UN has criticised Norway for the fact that people do not have the right to health care in the same way as the rest of the population, and that was the criticism, among other things. The Minister's own party was so serious last year. So this year, the representative from the same party says you're fulfilling all your obligations. It's a fundamental disagreement. So it's like these people, no matter what kind of papers they have in order, or not, are human beings; that's why they're covered by human rights. Is it the case that the criticism the United Nations has made of Norway is no longer correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e687	The fact is that everyone in Norway has the right to immediate help, and they have the right to health care that is absolutely necessary and that cannot wait. Women who wish to interrupt their pregnancy are entitled to do so. Persons in need of infectious disease protection have the right to do so. Psychiatric instability, which poses a near and serious risk to the lives of others and others, is also entitled to mental health protection – regardless of the state of residence. Children and pregnant women have the same health care rights as the representative Seher Aydar and I have. So it's not a performance I'm good for. I think we have a code in line with international commitments, but I want to review whether this is being practised in line with the intentions, so that we ensure that the paperless also feel safe to seek health care that they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e692	The Council of State said both in the main post and in the reply that pregnant people who are undocumented ‘to a large extent’ are treated in the same way as the Council of State and we bigotry representatives. Then I wonder what 'to a great extent' means? Does that mean that whoever's pregnant, and doesn't have the papers in order, gets full help like everybody else, or doesn't get one?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e697	I referred to children and pregnant women, and today they have much the same right to health care regardless of residence status. This means that a pregnant woman in Norway who is undocumented receives follow-up during pregnancy. There is a need for health care and health care that cannot be expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e702	The chord shift has been completed. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e709	Let me first establish two important principles: one is that breaking laws and regulations should not be rewarded. The second basic principle is that all people in Norway are entitled to and entitled to emergency health care. But the group you're talking about here are people who have been denied their application for protection, and once you've got a final rejection of your application, like after having appealed and tried the matter for many rounds, you have a duty to leave the country. This is not, as someone is trying to present it as in the debate, paperless people. These are not paperless persons; these are persons who are largely illegal in Norway. And to start giving rights and well-being to people who live illegally in Norway, the Progress Party believes is wrong. It is not the job of Norwegian taxpayers to finance people who break the laws, regulations and decisions they have. We also know that the health care system is a poor thing. We have health cows – a lot of people are waiting for necessary surgery. We also have a permanent crisis. The fact that more people are to be brought into the healthcare system – people who are not entitled to it – means that the Progress Party is going to be wrong, not only to taxpayers, but not least to other people who are now in line to receive the necessary health care or treatment. This is also about what signals it is that we want to send out. Norway has a good health system. Of course, much can be improved and even improved, but in relation to large parts of the world, Norway has a very good health system. Norway also has a very high level of well-being, with good public welfare performance, from which it is, of course, attractive for very many people to benefit. But we can't have a system where we say that if you don't need protection, you should still have the right to these well-being goods. We must ensure that Norwegian welfare goods go to those who have legal residence in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e720	This matter is serious. It is actually a matter of life or death for some people in a particularly vulnerable situation, people who, for various reasons, actually live in Norway. They are referred to as «human beings in limbo» or «documentless migrants». They are strictly not without papers, but they seem to be without rights. These are people who are in a situation that does not make it possible to participate in the society in which you actually live – it is the possibility of caring for yourself through work, the possibility of a family life, or, as this case deals with, the possibility of obtaining the necessary health care. Today, health care for paperless migrants is limited to emergency and health care where it is absolutely necessary and cannot be expected. The course of the disease has often come very far. If you are not a member of the population, you have to pay the full cost of health care yourself. There are costs that most of us don't know the size, because we take it as a matter of course, that we get the help we need, when we need it, with completely affordable proportions. This means that many who live in Norway do not get the health care they need, which can lead to serious disease conditions and, in a few cases, death, we also see. For SV, it is a matter of course that we ensure the necessary health care for all those who need it in Norway, regardless of their status. There shall be the need to control the assistance. It is the responsibility of the public and it is a responsibility that must apply throughout the country. Today, volunteering is doing a fantastic job, but there is a limited effort they can make. The Church's Bymition and Red Cross run health centers for paperless migrants in both Oslo and Bergen. It's good for those who live in Oslo and Bergen. They just report the consequences for those who do not receive the necessary help. They meet all those who do not receive their rights. They are not the only ones who respond. In 2020, the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Norwegian Association of Doctors, the Norwegian Association of Psychologists, the Church’s City Mission, Norwegian Public Aid, the Norwegian Christian Association of Doctors and Doctors without a limit to their own appeal: ‘We are health professionals. Let's do our job!» These are professionals who want to do what they just took an education to do – help people and save lives. Then, as politicians, we have to facilitate that they can actually do it. As has been mentioned by the European Parliament earlier today, the United Nations is also responding to Norway’s policy in this area. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, at the latest in its report of 2020, criticised Norway for violations of human rights by not offering paperless migrants the health care they need, in line with the rest of the population. Norway is in a special position in this area. In the report, the United Nations is asking us to rectify this. We got a deadline of 24 months. Those months have gone by, and it is therefore unworthy – in fact worrying – that we are now politically unable to clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e733	I have to repeat: health is a human right, and human rights follow people, not papers. The Association of Nursing Nurses, the Medical Association and the Psychologists Association have been called upon to provide undocumented real access to health care, based on professional assessments, ethical guidelines and human rights principles. They ask for similar treatment for people living in Norway. I wish we had finally got a health minister who would let health professionals do their job. The Labour Party and the Center Party thought it was serious when the UN criticized us for Norway refusing some people health care. I wish they could do that even when they're in government. I don't know if the Health Minister knows any paperless people. I'll do it. Yeah, they're called paperless, but they all have a name and a story. We are talking about people who are deprived of fundamental rights, about people who have been tortured, who are not receiving health care. There are people who have had to leave everything and everyone they know, people who have some of the worst living conditions in our country. It seems like the majority in this room forgets that we're talking about people. They're made of meat and blood, like you. They breathe in the same air as you. The Right Party, the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Advance Party tell people that they can't count on getting help from a doctor or getting medication if they like. have pneumonia or have diabetes. Although research rejects it, we are told that health care for the paperless will lead to more people coming here. Something's not true just because you repeat it many times enough. If you could choose, would you have lived a life without paper in a country where your human rights are not linked to the human being you are, but to the papers you have or may not have? We can't, and shouldn't, make life worse than what people fled from. It can't be us. We're going to be a country where people get health care, not one where people are left to pains and diseases that can kill them because the doctor is not allowed to give them help early enough. Both the help organisations and the trade union movement have made strong and important arguments. The government should listen to them, not empty claims that have just been made to deny people fundamental human rights. Because if the government doesn't care about people, they might care about money. Prevention is also rewarding rather than waiting for it to become acute, both economically and not least human. The right to health is a fundamental human right. Health care must be accessible to all, without discrimination. I hope the government of ordinary people can also take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e750	As was the case in the previous speech, very many people do not receive the necessary health care in Norway. It's people who have names, like Badhon, or like the man who died, who we don't know the identity of. In Norway, we refuse to treat children with insulin. We make pregnant slaves after giving birth. We know that vulnerable women give birth involuntarily at home. We know that sick people do not have access to vital drugs and treatment. I don't understand, but today the Workers' Party and the Centre will not do anything about this, which they would do anything about 13 months ago – to comply with the UN appeal now that they are in the government offices. The Health Minister writes, as I was in the place, in his reply to the Storting: ‘Giveing to persons without permanent residence in Norway the same right to health care as to permanent residence on the basis of a residence and/or work permit could lead to more people coming to Norway for free treatment.’ It is incomprehensible to me that the Minister of Health can believe this, and it is incomprehensible that she repeats this. Trine Myhrvold, on behalf of the Norwegian Red Cross, has carried out a systematic review of the literature and the research we have on this claim, and has said that we do not have a scientific basis to claim that the paperless come to Norway for health care. Other reports in this area also show that access to healthcare is not a reason for people to flee. I know it myself, because my family has had to flee. No one leaves their home because they can get better health services in Norway — even if we believe this in Norway. Today, the majority of people in this room are voting to refuse insulin to diabetics, to refuse anti-epileptic drugs, not to give contraceptives to women, not to give heart surgery to those who have a life-threatening heart disease. The majority are in favour of continuing to refuse basic health care to fellow people because immigration-regulating care is more important for this growth than helping people. Human dignity must be central to how we treat one another. That sick, poor people in Norway don't get health services, seems to us all, it's a downgrading of our common human dignity. This matter should have been the simplest matter in the world: giving health rights to all people should be easy, but unfortunately I note that this room does not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e766	I must say that I am responding to the rhetoric that is being led from this pulpit. I think it's wise to listen to what both the Council of State and other representatives actually say instead of painting a picture that doesn't vote. There is no doubt that not everyone has received the help that you need, that you have a right to, and that you have the opportunity to get within the legislation that we actually have today. It's serious. That is why it is so important and right to review the legislation in place to ensure that it is properly practised. However, those in Norway are entitled to immediate assistance from the municipal health and care services and from specialist health services. I framed this instead -- what are actually the rights. So my prayer to the committee is that at least we're dealing with the facts, what's right, and we're dealing with what you're actually saying instead of making an image that's not right. I think the debate is getting better too. And I think we should have respect even where we disagree, that's okay. But do not come and tell a truth that is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e775	We who have been on the pulpit to argue that all people should have human rights, including health care, have spoken on the basis of the reality that people are in, the reality that is also outside this hall. We haven't made up anything. We've actually been talking about how people experience the laws and rules the majority in this room will keep. That is the reality. We hear very well what the government parties say. We hear well what they say that people have the right to. I think it's good that the government will take a look at it. But what we're criticising is exactly what people don't have the right to, and that's the part government parties unfortunately choose not to talk about. I wish they would choose to talk about it. When the representative from the Workers' Party came up and talked about the tone, I thought she was going to talk about the tone of people who are paperless, being talked about, and not that we, who are fighting for people to have health rights, are talking about how people are experiencing today's situation. I think that is actually a little sad, but I notice that it was what the representative chose to point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e784	Good President. I also have to stress and support the intervention of the representative Myrseth, because what has been said, and to a particular extent from the representatives of SV and Red, does not really matter. When we, as part of the government party, have tried to deliver our messages, they may not have listened to us in today's debate. Both the Council of State has done well and the signatures have made it very clear in the article that a review of current practice is required – just to ensure that the basic and circumventive healthcare is to be delivered to the people who live in this kingdom. With that, a just encounter will be what SV was also part of just under 13 months ago in this room, where they joined or were part of a note consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, where a beg government to make sure that all those who behave in Norway actually receive the necessary health care, and to review the practice of right to this very thing. So I'm surprised, because what's changed in 13 months, is that the party SV chooses to go further and should extend these rights, unlike the Labour Party and the Center Party, which are fixed by it also meant 13 months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e794	The representative, Marian Hussein, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e799	I notice that the previous speaker was more concerned with the one proposal that was in agreement with the government parties about, and did not take up the other proposals that the Central Party and the Workers' Party had in the previous round. What has changed is that the Centre Party and the Labour Party have now entered the government offices and still chooses not to grant rights to people in Norway. Today is a historic day. It's been 50 years since this room ended that it was illegal to be gay in Norway. Unfortunately, the struggle for people who have been on the run is still a long battle we have to fight in this room. As the representative Aydar had in mind, I wish that the government parties were more concerned with the rights and human dignity of those people, rather than being tone police against us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e806	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e823	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each political group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines will be given with a response from the main players of the lots. Then there will be given occasion for replies with comments from members of the government. Furthermore, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e832	First, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. As the President referred to, this is a matter based on two representative proposals. It is a proposal from representatives of the Red Group to slow power exports and a proposal from representatives of the Progress Party to impose restrictions on power exports in order to ensure Norwegian preparedness and security of supply. The proposals, which have been maintained through treatment, are aimed at limiting power exports and, of course, at contributing to a lower price in Norway. There are several minority proposals in this case, including: about to limit power exports at low filling level; increased minimum filling levels in the reservoirs renegotiate the agreements for the North Sea Link cable, NorNed and NordLink investigating the imposition of an export charge on force None of these have been given a majority in committee, but I assume that those who support these proposals will argue for them during this debate as well. The Left does not support the proposals that have been promoted by the Red and the Advance Party. Now I want to get into my arguments. The Nordic energy market and – gradually – the European energy market have served Norway well for more than 30 years, and that must be the basis for what we are going to do in the future. It is clear that both the foreign tables and the low filling rate of the water reservoirs we have this year have helped to influence the price in Norway in winter, but there is a limited impact. What is the main reason for the very high prices we have today is that, where Russia has previously withheld its gas supplies to Europe, we are now, when Russia has attacked Ukraine, in a totally opposite situation, where Europe does not want to use Russian gas and will limit it as much as possible. Thus, prices are driven up. However, it is important to note that prices are, and have been, lower than elsewhere in Europe. In the situation we are in, where Europe needs to become less dependent on gas, the Left is concerned that we need to accelerate cooperation with Europe and that we need more committed energy cooperation. We also have proposals along with the SV and the Greens. I also believe that we need a better transfer of capacity towards Europe, and that is why we also have a proposal together with the Greens on the need for hybrid cables in the development of sea winds in Norway. With that, I'll take up the suggestions that the left-hand side is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e866	The representative Ola Elvestuen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e871	It is well known that Norway has benefited from exchanges of electricity between our neighbouring countries since the 1960s. The Northern European Power System has given us plenty of power throughout the year, increased security of supply and lower prices. This exchange has ensured secure security of supply when it has been dry and produced little electricity in. This year, with a lot of rainfall, we have been able to export the profits from production. This winter, Europe has record high prices of coal, gas and CO 2 quotas and low wind power production periods. At the same time, magazine filling has been below normal in the southern parts of Norway. And since we are part of the European power market, we are affected by the rise in prices in Europe. In addition, Russia's invasion of Ukraine has brought about a whole new energy reality that we do not yet see the consequences of. The situation we're in now is quite extraordinary. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary and wise to do what the government warns in the supplementary communication, namely to review how the changes in the power markets around us and our connection to these markets affect Norwegian power supply. Many suggest that power prices in Norway will continue to be high in the future. There is therefore a great need for more knowledge of the nature of the links in the power markets in the coming years. The Energy Commission shall, as part of its mandate, evaluate the experience with international connections. This is important knowledge that we need to build on before we may propose changes to the power exchange system. At the same time, it will be important to have good dialogue with the United Kingdom and the EU on imports and exports with regard to our national security of supply, as the government has announced they will have. There should be no doubt about the ambitions of the Workers' Party. Access to ample, clean and reasonable power will continue to be the Norwegian industry's foremost competitive advantage and a good thing for people in the future. We will pursue an energy policy that contributes to increased value creation and to meeting Norway’s international climate commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e887	I have a lot of understanding of the desire to do something about the high power prices. It's a wish that I think this whole hall shares. However, none of the proposals currently under consideration will help to address the reasons for the high electricity prices. On the contrary, the proposals can help to reinforce the challenges, or create new problems. I agree that national security of supply is an important premise for the Norwegian power system, and the Right believes that the government is continually making assessments of it. However, if the proposals are adopted, which, fortunately, does not appear to be, this could lead to Norway not being imported force in line with our needs in dry years, which would weaken security of supply, which the proposers are concerned with, and lead to higher prices – everything else alike. The proposal for a production levy, which would in practice have to be a tax on all power generation in Norway, can also help to increase power prices, which will affect consumers and businesses. The main measure to contribute to lower and more predictable prices, both for households, industry and business, is to expand more power generation. It is also essential to achieve the climate targets in Norway. We need both solar energy, land wind, small power, and we need to upgrade existing hydroelectric power plants, but especially within sea wind, we can harvest large volumes. My concern is that the government has too low ambitions and takes too long, so that we risk missing both new power and direct and indirect industrial ring-effects. The right is that we should have plenty of clean and reasonable energy in Norway. It assumes that we are building out significant power volumes in the years that are coming, and that we are looking at all possibilities to do so. In the short term, it's actually small power that can give us the most power generation. The Small Forces Association has estimated that there is a potential of 13.5 TWh, but in the last few years little small force has been treated in the NVE. This has to get going again, so that we can also increase power generation in the near future. But as I said, the great volume lies within sea winds, and there is the government that has to answer for tempo and ambition. Making changes to the power system, as proposed in these proposals, without thorough investigations, puts us at risk of some major negative and unintended consequences. I strongly advise against that, and I think we should await the government's review of the Energy Commission before making any changes to the power system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e904	The extremely high electricity prices we have seen in the autumn and winter have great consequences for people throughout the country. To respond to this situation, it is important to take both short-term and long-term action. We know that many people have been very concerned about the power bill, and this has been really taken seriously by the government. The power support system, which is the most important short-term measure, has worked. Therefore, I believe it is absolutely right that the Storting before Easter decided that there should be power support schemes until March 2023 and that the current arrangements should be extended by 2022. This gives predictability to those who have received electricity support in the last few months, whether it be households, the voluntary sector, agriculture or the greenhouse industry. While short-term measures are important, the government is working with several long-term measures to control power. The government will follow up the power situation 2021-2022 with a thorough review of the reasons for the situation of the year and an assessment of the risk of similar situations coming forward. The review will also include an assessment of several of the actions raised in the discussion in winter, as well as proposals presented in these representatives’ proposals. The review shall consider measures such as maximum electricity price, filling level requirements in the warehouses and other different means of securing the power customers. The government has also said that they will engage in a dialogue with the United Kingdom and the EU with a view to ensuring that we avoid long periods of clean exports during periods of low magazine filling. This will be a decisive step in ensuring security of supply in Norway. But this isn't easy. Therefore, I am pleased that the government takes the necessary steps and assessments before going in and doing short-term and a little panicky grip. The Hurdal platform clearly states that no new foreign tables are to be built during the current period. It is positive to note that there is now a large majority on the Stortinget who say no to several new foreign tables. The government has signaled that it will look at changes in the rent tax to ensure access to favourable fixed-price agreements for businesses and households. This, I think, is an important grip. In Norway, only 3-4 psts are selected. fixed-price agreements, while in Denmark and Finland the share is above 50 pst. There must be no doubt that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party's clear vision is that the flow should be green and reasonable. The different work I have mentioned is already well under way, and I am sure that the result of this will be that we will meet later winters with much greater security than we have done this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e919	I think we can agree that Norway has been in a very difficult situation, with very high power prices. We have built up today's modern Norway through the availability of sufficient and reasonable power. When we see that we can get into a situation that challenges access, which challenges competitive prices, it must be possible to look at the possibilities that a person has to avoid such situations. I find it extremely regrettable that we do not get a majority in favour of a proposal in which we are today asking for an examination of the possibilities contained in concluded agreements when the filling rate of the warehouse is lower than normal. In Europe, therefore, the EU is now setting 80 pst. filling of the gas reservoirs before the next winter. Who wants to protest at it? When Norway says we're going to have a minimum of water in our magazines before the next winter, it's obviously in violation of all the agreements and will be perceived in such a way that we're going to be punished next time we're addicted to importing power. With respect to reporting, I think we have better friends in Europe than that. I can only remind the assembly that last year we exported 15 TWh power – we exported 1,500 TWh gas. It is not that we are relieving the energy situation in Europe with electricity – we are doing so with gas, and we are doing so with the climate emissions by enabling one to phase out coal with Norwegian gas. It may seem that most people agree that increased power generation will solve the problems of high prices. It's a thought that I share so far. But what are the measures that are being put in place to make it possible to increase the available force? Yes, in these days there are sea winds all hiding behind. It is more or less unprofessional proposals that we should establish 30 gigawatts of sea wind by 2030. It is simply not feasible. The Progress Party has worked to put in place a new hydropower tax so that we can modernise our hydropower production. We want to look at the potential that we have in increasing hydropower deployment. We do not want to use the available power to electrify the socket, but we still see that in the situation facing the nation, today's government and parts of the opposition believe that this is not important enough. This regrets the Progress Party. I refer to the proposal of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e934	The representative of Terje Halleland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e939	Winter and this spring's sky-high electricity prices have made it necessary to turn all the stones in the power policy to see what can be done to ensure Norwegian consumers continue to have access on a clean and reasonable basis. There is a support bar in our society, both since households in Norway have higher electricity consumption than many others, and because our industry depends on reasonable power to compete both on the European market and on the world market. I think it is a bit funny to hear the debate today, because there are many who are calling for more knowledge, and who believe that the things that are proposed must be investigated before they are introduced. But that is exactly what is proposed. There are a number of suggestions to gain more knowledge that SV and other parties are promoting today. We believe it is important to get these investigations started and get knowledge of the consequences of this. So it's a little strange that the proposals don't get a majority. We need to address the very serious energy situation in Europe. Russia has acted knowingly and willfully in a way that destabilises the energy policy of Europe by holding back gas. This occurred during the inauguration of Ukraine. Norway should help European countries convert from gas, Russian gas, but the solution that we heard was presented by comrade Halleland is not a solution. This would only have worked in 15–20 years, in a period when Europe will have liberated itself from the use of gas. If we are to help Europe, there are other measures that need to be taken. There is an increased focus on energy efficiency improvement and there is an increased focus on renewable energy in Europe. But although these proposals we are promoting – and I am addressing the proposals that SV is behind – are being put to the vote today, I am sure that we will come back to this discussion in connection with what will become one of the most important issues this spring, namely the treatment of the energy message.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e953	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has drawn up the proposals of which the Socialist Left Party is part. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e960	The representative Haltbrecken spoke about the need to develop more renewable energy, including in a European perspective. At the same time, the representative Mykjåland was up here on the pulpit and said a cash no to new foreign connections, including hybrid cables, with reference to the Hurdal platform. My question to the representative Haltbrecken is whether SV will use its position as a constructive opposition party to confirm that the sea window construction in Norway will be built with hybrid cables?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e965	There are probably shared views also in the industry about whether hybrid cables are needed to get the sea win bet you want. We are now eagerly awaiting the investigation that the government has asked the NVE to come with in the case of hybrid cables. For us, it is important that the sea wind effort in Norway helps to cut greenhouse gas emissions, that it contributes to securing Norwegian shipbuilding and Norwegian jobs in the future, and that it also contributes to continued reasonable access to power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e970	The representative Haltbrecken referred to the division of views in the hybrid cable industry as necessary to obtain profitability in marine wind projects. Then I would like to challenge the representative to tell us which actors believe that this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e975	There have been discussions in the industry as to whether this is necessary. I'm not going to name any specific company, but we see today that it's interesting to expand even if you have a so-called radial, an extension to Norway. SV has also launched a third way in the discussion on bets on sea wind, where SV wants to use electrification of the base as an engine to advance the sea wind bet, and where we want to oblige oil companies to use the electrification to start expanding the sea wind and pay for this expansion. Then there will also be an extension that will serve the Norwegian mainland well after the platforms have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e982	Just to clarify: is it that SV is for or against hybrid cables?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e987	I answered that in my first question. We're excited about the investigation that NVE is going to make. We have made some clear demands on this, and I can repeat the demands of the representative of Astrup. Marine wind deployment must help cut greenhouse gas emissions, it must help secure Norwegian jobs, and it must help ensure that we continue to have reasonable power prices in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e992	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e997	On the very first day we were able to deliver proposals in the storeroom, Red promoted a proposal for a representative to be discussed today. It is about taking greater account of security of supply, controlling power exports and stopping all new foreign tables, including North Connect. For so long, that application is pending only. It can be picked up from the drawer at any time, and if the government is serious about it not wanting to build up several foreign tables, the government can and should reject the application during this downtime, so that neither Solberg nor Astrup can pick up the application from the drawer. This winter has Red – unfortunately, I can perhaps add – got right in a lot. The link to the European electricity market offers abnormally high prices, as we have warned for several years, and the water reservoirs are being tapped to a minimum because it is speculated to export when prices are high. This threatens security of supply, and it is negative for both Norway and Europe. The future doesn't look any brighter, and this has been an announced price catastrophe. Even before the war broke out in Ukraine, NVE warned about high and unstable prices out of the year. The last page has pointed to the possibility of binding North and Middle Norway closer to South Norway to address the problem. This is a blank track, not to say a short circuit. The only thing that will result in today's situation is higher prices in the north. Indeed, the large and expensive price ranges are becoming decisive, as we have seen with the cables to the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom. Against this background, Red promotes a loose proposal not to speed up plans to link north and south closer together in today’s power situation with high-price speculation and the bottling of the magazines. In conclusion, I would like to add that the proposals are not necessarily a question of how much we are exporting in total, but at what times and at what price, and whether we are going to have market forces, or whether we are going to take community considerations. Red is disappointed that the social - democratic government is not pursuing a social - democratic policy in the face of a cynical power market. The power is ours, it's called in the trade union movement, but in the government offices it says that the market is sovereign. The government shames the proud history of the labour movement with national and democratic control over power. I don't expect much of the right parties, but I expect a little more of the Labour Party and the Center Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1012	The representative Sofie Marhaug has drawn up what she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1017	In autumn and winter we have had exceptionally high electricity prices in southern Norway and in Europe. High prices are due to several factors, such as low filling rates in Norwegian water storage plants, high gas prices and quota prices of CO 2 in Europe and low transmission capacity within Norway. Clearly, action must be taken to improve the service of consumers and businesses in the electricity market in Norway. However, the answer to high electricity prices in Norway is not to strangle the power supply to Europe, as proposed by the Red Party and the Progress Party. It's not just insolvent with the rest of the world. It will also rapidly lead to increased prices in Norway over time and weaken Norway’s position internationally. Not only Norway is in an extremely challenging situation because of high energy prices now. Many European countries have had significantly higher prices than us, and it is also important to bear in mind that Norway is now earning huge sums of high energy prices in the world, among others. high gas prices in Europe. In such a situation, it is totally incomprehensible and navigable for me to think that Norway is going to take us in and not stand up for a Europe that is asking for more renewable power to solve the climate crisis and also to make itself independent of Putin. The EU has set extremely high ambitious renewable targets after Putin went to war with Ukraine. Europe wants to become energy independent — not dependent on Norway as a new gas supplier. In Germany, the government, of which the Greens are part, has taken steps to legislate that all power in the country will be renewable by 2035. Instead of limiting our exports by force, Norway should do what we can to become an important and stable supplier of renewable energy. It is also good for our industry, which is going to change. We need to increase the level of ambition for marine window construction and, of course, also for sun and energy saving, and we need to link sea wind farms to Europe, not just to mainland Norway. The government should do that at the same time as we're going to be a stable supplier of gas in the next few years, without using it as a rest cushion against a transition that we all know we have to go through, and quickly. The Greens are therefore promoting proposals today to take the initiative of a long-term commitment to energy cooperation with the EU, which is leading to a gradual increase in renewables in our exports to Europe. Such an agreement will provide for the predictability of Norwegian authorities, businesses and workers in transition and will also be important for the climate and for the EU to become independent of Putin’s gas and achieve its objectives of faster transition to renewable energy. Today, we are also promoting a proposal that the expansions in the Southern North Sea 2 actually take place with hybrid cables.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1036	There is a completely different discussion or situation about this topic than it has been in recent years. From just talking about using the force and how we're going to use it, today there's a discussion about scarcity, about how we can build up more power as quickly as possible, and not least about how we can solve challenges with high power prices. I am very concerned that one should have short-term measures, but that they do not destroy for the long-term work, whether it be energy efficiency improvement, climate action or to ensure that we continue to have the value creation and the industry that depends on cheap electricity. So from the Christian People's Party we're concerned with solutions that can solve challenges in the short term. There we believe that the power support system should have been better, it should have been more focused on volunteers – NPISHs, not least, which I am concerned about if this is going to last for a longer time – but also on business. But then the causes of the problems are what we need to discuss. Here I know that we are going to have good discussions in the energy message about how we can produce more energy, etc. I believe that an important foundation is that Norway should contribute to export power – that is the starting point of the Christian People's Party – but I am also of the opinion that we should do so in a way where we have more control over exports. We're going to have foreign tables, and for that matter, there might be more foreign tables coming, as long as you have control of it. Because we're going to hopefully continue to expand, and if we succeed in the enormous amount of effort that can come up with, for example. sea wind, we will also be able to export even more force. That's why I disagree with the criticism contained in some of the proposals here, because the proposals of the Christian People's Party are about investigating. We agree that it's a complex system, and it's important to make investigations of the system. But one of the suggestions that I think is very exciting is to sort it out with your own price zone right around the export cables. I would like to spend some time on it, because it's about creating a separate zone in order to be able to continue exporting – a bit like a separate auction, as it is on the UK cable – and there you can continue to export, but at a higher price, and ensure a lower price in Norway. To investigate it and look at it, I believe that the government should do so, but it also applies to the other proposals to look at the possibilities contained in the agreements and the requirements for filling. Of course, the reason for the last degree of filling is that energy policy has become a security policy. I fully agree with the representative of Bastholm, who made a good contribution to our solidarity with Europe – that is very important. But we don't have to get into a situation like the one I saw in the last numbers for NO1; there was a density of 8.1 pst, and that's challenging. We also know that it's not record-breaking, it's actually been lower, but it's a security challenge. Therefore, I also believe that one should look at the kind of measures that will also do something about the price level, which I believe is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1049	Clean and reasonable power has been a good thing in Norway, and it should also be a good thing in the future. It's some of our society built around in terms of both industry, business and the security of people. This must also be the case in the future, and ensuring that we have sufficient access to renewable energy is important. I am very pleased that there is a very broad support for the fact that we need to develop more pure renewable energy in Norway, because it is an opportunity to further develop society too, bring down price levels and get more stability than we have now. And I just want to stress that the situation we're in now is very undesirable, and it's unsustainable over time. But it has a cruel backstop – the war in Ukraine – that has reinforced a crisis that was on its way. We are linked to the European power market. We've been linked to other countries for over 50 years in terms of our power system. It has served us well. We have made good use of our investments. We have provided income for society, but at the same time we have also had Europe's fairest electricity prices until 2020, until the crisis began. When gas markets began to fail in Europe, prices began to rise, and our electricity prices rose at the same time. What's important is to understand the whole and the context of the complex image. Therefore, the government has been very clear, and we have announced that we are now investigating all aspects of the power situation for 2021 and 2022 and will come back to the Stortinget with it in various pools during the year, because it is important. It's important that we continue the energy debate that Stortinget has brought up several times now, about on the same themes. It is important that we continue to do so even when we have a basis for making thoughtful decisions. That's what's important, and that's what's definitely going to be demanding. We're closely following the situation as it is now. There is no danger of security of supply in Norway in terms of current supply, and it is important that we keep up with it. But I think it's very unwise to short-term, to use an electrical expression, what has served us well over so many years, in a situation that's quite extraordinary, and that's as demanding as it is. I think it's wise to take the whole debate and draw thoughtful conclusions at a time when one sees more of the contexts than what one actually does now. I think it's a little challenging to deal with when the opposition raises simple, loose suggestions many times, which initially seem to be reliable, but which can initially also considerably reduce our possibilities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1062	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1067	In this case, I understand that the Council of State is also concerned about the developments that have taken place, both in terms of security of supply and not least in terms of prices, which consumers and Norwegian business in particular experience. However, in the response of the Council of State to this issue, it emerged that security of supply based on the degree of filling is not a good solution and that reactions can be obtained from the EU. When the EU itself, in its emergency plan, wants them to have a gas supply of 80 p.m. before the next winter, can the Council tell me what is the difference between a filling level in the warehouses in order to ensure its own security of supply and a storage of gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1072	We could like to have a seminar on it, and exchange different thoughts about it. There is a significant difference between a gas stock, as the power supply in Norway now actually works. But we're going to consider also magazine filling up against power exports, and we've already announced that. We're going to see all the relationships that lie there, so we're also going to get an evaluation related to this with magazine filling. But if we set minimum standards, we reduce the flexibility of the system, and we can quickly get into a situation where we increase the uncertainty associated with our energy security.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1077	I don't know if there was any answer, but I'm fine. There's no one here who really wants to challenge the flexibility. I believe that the majority in this Chamber sees the advantage of the power exchange that has been and the need for the exchange of power. We should not underestimate it; it is absolutely important that we have it with us. But in his speech, the Council of State now said that he wanted to build more clean energy in Norway. Can he tell a little bit about how he's going to do it, for example. in the next five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1082	We've re-started the concession treatment on wind power on land. Where the municipalities agree, we want to facilitate the implementation of the concession treatment. It was stopped by the previous government. We believe that the tax system around hydropower is now positioned in such a way that it should definitely be invested in upgrades and extensions of our hydropower. We have launched concrete actions in the field of maritime window construction. So this government is absolutely ‘on track’ in terms of the development of new renewable energy. I heard the representative Halleland mention that many covered themselves behind this with sea wind. I think sea wind is an opportunity that several people have expressed. This government also has great ambitions in that area. There is both a quality in renewable energy production, there is a quality in terms of the ability to cut greenhouse gas emissions, and not least there is an opportunity for our industry to develop a new leg to stand on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1089	So my question was what kind of power generation would see an increase over the next five years, and the Council of State mentions wind power on land, which can be an initiative by the municipalities themselves. He would like to figure it out a little, perhaps how many municipalities and, if necessary, how much power there is. And then he'll be able to follow up on how much power he'll expect from sea wind in the next five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1094	Concession applications are available at wind power plants on land where municipalities agree, which are being implemented quickly. The speed at which one chooses to expand must be up to those behind the projects, and will depend on it. I can return the question: How much more force do we get from what the Progress Party has proposed for both seven years in government and what they are now proposing in opposition? It's very small – nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1099	In order to sit on the Energy and Environment Committee, I have to say that the Aasland Council is little informed about the amount of power that was deployed in the last period. 16 TWh was built out in the last eight years, so what the Council of State just said was incorrect. I am pleased that the Council of State is impatient to deploy new renewable energy. Today, the concession treatment for excessive hydropower – not so much hydropower, but relatively large hydropower – takes ten to twelve years. I know that the Council of State has been concerned that the concession treatment period has to go down. There's something that the Right is very impatient about, because we're now in a completely different situation, and we have to build much faster than before. Then the question is, how quickly does the Council of State think it is possible to deal with concessions?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1106	With regard to the different concession measures that require concession treatment, from hydropower, wind power on land to sea wind, there will be different lead times. But what is actually working on now is cutting down the lead times on the development of sea winds. I think that as long as we do parallel processes, we can get good results. But I'll come back to Stortinget and give you a little more information about that. In the case of hydropower plants, I believe that upgrading existing hydropower plants should be subject to rapid concession treatment. In the case of wind power on land, it will be necessary that the municipalities, to which we are to listen, actually have good processes, which can take some time. Otherwise, I would like to say that I am aware of 16 TWh in the previous period. But I registered that the representative Astrup said that there is a need for significantly more renewable energy deployment now, and that is six months after they left the government offices. Then I wonder, what's left of the Right Department of Oil and Energy about new power expansion? It's very small.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1116	I remind the Council of State that he is here to answer questions, and the representative, who is standing here, is here to ask questions. That, I think, is a good division of labour, unless the Council of State wants to change its role, because it is also possible to do so. In the case of sea wind, which the Council of State had in mind, the representative of Mykjåland was concerned that the Central Party said absolutely no to foreignables. Then the question to the Council of State is whether it is such that the Council of State will consider hybrid cables as a foreign table or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1123	All of them first: I answered the question from Nikolai Astrup, and then I commented on what he said about the previous one, and I think that's quite legitimate to do in Stortinget. I have such a good experience with Stortinget. Now I'm going to answer this with foreign tables. There the government is very clear that we are not going to build new foreign tables in this period or give concessions for foreign tables in this expansion period. But it's an interesting question about sea wind, because if we're going to raise the level of ambition, we have to get a flow of power that also serves the projects, and there are many different solutions. We have chosen a radial for the Southern North Sea. I believe that this benefits the Norwegian power system in a very good way, and then we have started an investigation on how to deal with this in the future, and will come back to it. Then there are many different solutions. Hybrid is one solution, which can be dimensioned so that we get a net flow of power to Norway. The second is to have direct cables from offshore wind farms that go directly to the rest of the world. It is also interesting for those who may be engaged in sea winds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1130	Last week, the average filling rate in Norway was 22.7 pst. Although there was no bottom record in the East, it was in the West, NO5. I'm going to say that empty warehouses are not solid. It is not good for security of supply, either in Norway or in Europe. In this situation, I wonder why the Council of State and the Government parties cannot support proposals to impose stricter requirements on minimum water levels in the warehouses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1135	We put the minimum water level in our warehouses through the concession terms we treat on an ongoing basis, or at least in relation to the different facilities. Then that kind of relationship is evaluated, and I think it's right to do it in that context. Then we're going to assess the magazine filling capacity or the magazine filling rate in relation to the fact that we're assessing the impact of power exports both in terms of price and in terms of energy security. But if we set too high a level of magazine filling as a consistent standard, we will lose some of the quality of the hydropower – precisely the flexibility that lies there to be able to produce very variedly also over large volumes and large quantities – so it will actually weaken the Norwegian energy system, as opposed to bringing it up. But we evaluate it and come back with comprehensive assessments of the issues raised, which are central to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1140	My particular impression is that the power industry sells when prices are high, and that that is what determines the filling density of the warehouses today. It turns out that this means that the magazines are being tapped. My follow-up question to the Council of State is really whether the Council of State thinks today's situation is non-profit, or whether the Council of State is satisfied with today's market solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1145	I think I made it clear that what's happening now, I'm not satisfied with at all. Neither is the government. I don't think anyone here in the main hall is satisfied with the situation we're in now, with extremely high prices. That's why we've said that we should turn every rock, see if it's something that's natural and right that we make adjustments to, to strengthen energy security, provide a more stable price level and that we have sufficient access to reasonable energy over a long period of time for different purposes in the Norwegian community. Then I am very pleased that this government has an ambitious policy of expanding more renewable energy, which supports the robustness and power of the Norwegian power system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1150	For me, it's almost a little incomprehensible why the government is opposed to hybrid cables on the development of sea wind in the southern North Sea. When the Council of State argues that we need a radial, it reminds me a little bit of orwellish novelty – that it should be an advantage for this project. Fortunately, however, we have international relations with Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, and they are established. I think it could have been difficult in today's big business, but fortunately they're already there. In a situation where Europe needs to change its power system in order to reduce the use of Russian gas, and it needs to be done quickly, Norway is an important player in order to achieve this. When the government does not want hybrid cables, my question is: how does the Council of State see us contributing to the energy conversion from Russian gas that Europe needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1155	Firstly, I agree with the representative of Elvesuen that for one project to be expanded, if there is one project in the Southern North Sea with a radial, it is not necessarily the most profitable for the project, but it is profitable for the Norwegian power system, and it is a significant factor to emphasise in that context. That's the one. The second is that the government hasn't said that we're opposed to hybrid cables. We have said that we are investigating a future power grid to bet on sea wind, and then we get back when that investigation is available, with what solutions the government prefers. In my answer to the representative Astrup, I tried to say that there are many different solutions to how to dimension the different directions in a hybrid solution. There may be more radials, but there may also be sea wind projects on a Norwegian base that go directly to markets other than the Norwegian system, so that there is no influence over it at all. That's some of what's being investigated, and I think it's wise to wait for those investigations to be made before a draw final conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1160	When it comes to the need for hybrid cables in the South North Sea, I think we just disagree, so I'm not going to ask any more questions about it. But when we look at Europe's need to reduce its use of Russian gas, the government usually answers that this is about us being a stable gas supplier. However, Europe also needs to reduce gas consumption in general, and then the question arises of how the Council of State sees it that the Norwegian contribution to the European use of renewable energy can best be made, and what measures we should take to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1165	There is no doubt that a stable and long-term supply of gas is also important for European energy security in the future, so it is an important investment factor for government. With regard to how we are to contribute renewable energy into the European market, the government has not taken a decision on this. I've recorded that the waste of Russian gas, if one converts it into electricity, will provide something like 700 TWh to be replaced, so that's a significant amount. I believe that if we want to build sea winds and invest heavily in it, I think we can offer through such an approach some of the terawatt hours that this is about, in a good way for the European market, but then we have to find solutions that do not further expose the existing power system in Norway to export. I think that's important for the safety of the industry, of the business world, and not least of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1170	We have devoted ourselves to a market that is huge – that is at least ten times the entire Norwegian power generation if one is to replace Russian gas. What I'm wondering is whether the government is counting on the amount of energy that needs to be produced, and what are the area consequences of that energy production if we're going to be able to produce so much that we fill up the cables and make a surplus that makes the price go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1176	It will be the production effort of the various power systems that determines the flow of power at all times. We've said that we won't expand more foreign tables in this expansion period or have concessions that provide a basis for it. I think that's absolutely right. Taking advantage of the capacity of installed power – if you were to transfer it to a new system of wind, which I understand the representative is asking, the government has not calculated it. It's not an interesting calculation either, because it won't happen. We have the hydropower, which is the jewel of the Norwegian power system, and it still has to be. So I mean, like many people, we have great additional potentials. We have additional potential for wind power on land, which we want to exploit, if the municipalities agree. We have a great potential for sea wind, too, if we put it into practice. Then there are the different balances, against environmental pressures, etc., that have to be made when one is going to make final decisions about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1183	I don't want an own system of power, because we only have one system, and it's now European – against the will of SV, right enough. I repeat the question, does the government do calculations of what that means? And how much does it take for one to fill up so much in the Norwegian power market that the price actually goes down? We now have an export capacity of 9,000 megawatts, and we have expanded 3,000 megawatts of wind power to now. How much more space does it take and how much?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1188	The cable capacity we have installed between Norway and the various markets and countries we have is being exploited and used today – both ways – perhaps with the exception of the UK cable. We're going to keep doing that. There's no reason to figure out anything more than that. What is important to us is to ensure that we have sufficient access to reasonable renewable energy to support an increasing energy demand in the future, to establish safe, forward-looking jobs in battery plants and hydrogen plants. In different contexts, we need more power in the time to come. LO and NHO presented a report that shows that if we are to meet our climate commitments and build new industries in Norway, we may need a place between 50 and 70 TWh in the years ahead. It's a big problem to be able to solve this. At least we have to assume that we will have sufficient access to reasonable force in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1193	This is an interesting line exchange that shows a little bit of the breadth of energy policy, and how it all goes with everything. It is good that we also get an energy message that we can get debaters in ours. The representative of Elvesuen addressed the question of how Norway can now rise to become an important supplier of renewable energy for Europe. Although we may disagree on the urgency or pace of this switch from primary gas to renewable energy, I would assume that the government agrees that it is important for Norway to become a stable supplier of renewable energy to the EU. One of the proposals on the table today – which will be voted down – is that Norway can take the initiative in an energy agreement with the EU where we are just trying to provide a stable predictability for our industry and the development of renewable energy with us with the EU, by committing ourselves to a phase-in of renewable energy. Does the Council see any benefit from such an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1202	In order to build stability over time, at least trust between countries is very important, not least in energy matters. We see the consequences of lack of trust, failure of foundations and war, as the situation is now, where energy insecurity makes it very demanding. So building trust, predictability and stability is important. I think Norway has been acting as a stable and predictable actor for the European energy market for many years. Norwegian oil and gas activities are based on that premise. I think it's a quality to keep going, too. In the case of renewable energy, it is more vulnerable, more debated and sensitive, but I think we have a great sea wind potential, provided that we are able to exploit it in such a way that we do not expose the Norwegian power system to further exports, because I think we will get a lot of resistance to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1209	I think the Council of State answers many of the questions well, and I share many of his assessments, not least that we have to produce more power. But my fear is that in the medium term – one thing is in the very short term – when we really get the expansions, we will continue to export the high European power prices. Even with the government's support scheme, people with average income will experience that it is demanding with high electricity prices. As I have mentioned many times, there are some non-profit organisations and some volunteers who do not fall under the schemes, who will labor, but also business. This can also last for a long time. One of the suggestions in this case is to look at a separate pricing zone. My question is whether the Council of State has looked at that proposal, made some assessments of it, or whether he is willing to do so. As I think, it can act as a fictional bottleneck, which ensures that a squeeze up the price right in the price zone, so that it is the same price that Europe pays for the power today, right at the access point, while a squeeze down the price in Norway and may have the low power price that I think is absolutely necessary for households and industry and the establishments to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1214	First of all, with regard to price levels and the possibility that this can continue, the government has launched that we want better fixed-price agreements. I think it can be a good solution for both households and business in a demanding time, but also in a more stable time I think it would be right to be able to choose that kind of agreement, at least. As far as the price zones around the cable points are concerned, as I understand they are the proposals of the Christian People's Party, we have not evaluated them. I'm not sure if this is a good proposal. The price ranges we already have and have experience in do not necessarily seem quite natural, either. But there is something that we can discuss and look at in the future – whether or not some of the price ranges we have can be more easily decoupled from foreign connections. But I think it is important in that context to recognise that the flow of power also through the points for which the representative wants to have his own price range is also important in order to have power flows into the Norwegian market. So it speaks against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1221	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1228	In November, my colleagues in the Energy and Environmental Group of the Party of European Socialists promoted a proposal to regulate and limit energy exports in order to avoid persistent and sky-high electricity prices, which also ensures security of supply in our country. Unfortunately, it was not treated then, but it is only now. The last few months have shown that our proposal was really in place, and unfortunately this is even more topical today than ever. Current prices are sky-high, power exports are higher than last year, and water storage levels are record low. There is nothing unsolvable in taking action to avoid devastating electricity prices for people and businesses in Norway, and there is nothing unsolvable in ensuring Norway’s security of supply. In the debate so far, it may seem that the majority are more concerned with drawing on the interests of the EU than having the heart and solidarity of the Norwegian people and our country – unfortunately. What is also unsolvable is to conduct irresponsible energy and climate policies, as the EU and the United Kingdom have done, where nuclear power plants, gas power stations and stable energy have been phased out without full substitutes in place. It is so far from solidarity that one can come, it is to conduct a miserable, homely policy, and it is to let the citizens of other countries, such as Norway, take the bill. Norway exported 17 TWh electricity last year, while the Germans shut down three nuclear power plants that produced 30 TWh power in December and in January this year, in the midst of a power crisis. Before that, they put down eleven nuclear power stations and show no signs of reversal of their bad policies, which contribute to the record prices we are now experiencing both in Norway and in the EU. What we see, on the other hand, is that it exports more force than ever. Week 12 this year measured up to the same time last year shows that the export of electricity is above 25 pst. higher. In addition to 17 TWh of electricity, Norway exported 1500 TWh of gas to Europe last year and contributes enormously to the power market there. It is not Norway and the Grand Duchy's responsibility to protect European countries from the consequences of their own faulty energy and climate policies. The Party of Advances fears, in the light of high prices of power and low levels of gas filling, that the country’s preparedness and security of supply will be weakened. Headless climate policy has thwarted sensible energy policy and security of supply, and the result is devastating prices for the population of Norway. Therefore, the export of power must be regulated and limited as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1241	Work on turning Europe into an energy market for electricity has been going on for a long time and in many stages. The e-Highway2050 film, which is YouTube, presents the project and what is planned, and Norway has been involved in that plan. The large plan is free of force between countries in one electricity market. Many people are good at it, but the price system as it works now has become a huge problem. The link to the EU’s third energy market package, which was endorsed by a majority in the Stortinget in 2018, and which SV voted against, was a step on the way to achieving this market. The new export cables always have doctors within this plan. The goal has been our free float, and a consequence of that is a more equal price. When the regulatory authority provides guidance on the use of bottlenecks from the cables, it is in order to remove bottlenecks in the power grid to remove physical barriers to the flow of electricity and thus to separate price ranges. I fear the consequences of this in the long term for Norwegian industry. If you reduce your export, you will not be able to change this price system. Therefore, there is no guarantee that the price will be lower if the export is strangled. It is also proposed to produce more power, but the Council of State does not today respond to how much more power and what the consequences of the amount of power for the Norwegian natural landscape, Sami interests, wild breeds and all the other things that could be involved. But we have to find solutions, it is neither the war in Europe nor European power policy that forces us to pay 10–20–30 times more for what it costs to produce the hydropower, but an extremely liberalised market system. It is the market forces that must be mastered. Therefore, SV has submitted several proposals to control this, and it will be addressed in the Energy Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1250	A little earlier today, I listened to the representative Astrup from the Right, who was so busy that we had to build so many extraterrestrials, and that the extraterrestrials were so important in dry years, and they were so important in dry years to be able to import power from Europe. I wonder, then, what power from Europe? There is no power in Europe to import into Norway. There is, of course, a power crisis in Europe due to a failed environmental and climate policy in Europe, where a network reduces nuclear power stations and its coal-fired power stations and has made itself entirely dependent on Norwegian gas. And we're so clear that we can send our current – at least we're going to do it – onto the platforms so that we can't burn our own gas to power. The current is going to Europe and is going to be burning in gas power stations there, and we are going to get the power back, if necessary. Is it possible to be so clear that we should do something like that in a situation where we lack power in Norway? What stream is Europe capable of exporting? From I arrived at the Stortinget in October until today, the arrow has gone from Norway to Europe with power exports, not the other way around. A few days I have seen it, and I believe I have been on operating data.Statenet.no almost every day. What stream is Europe going to send to Norway? They will cut even more after their climate hysteria in Europe. Then you talk about dry years – no, then you have to do things and seaweed. Yeah, when was the last year in Norway? It was in 2006. Then the magazine fillings were 30 pst. Today, magazine fillings are 22.6 p.m., and in Austland they are 8.1 p.m. What year of the dry season is it a talker about? Is it going to be worse? A continued export of power to the rest of the world as if nothing has happened, and prices go to heaven. So it's said from the SV representative that there's no export and cables that make prices so high in East, West and South. What, then, is it that in Central and North Norway there is an average price of 12, 13, 14 cents – where the magazine filling is high? So what makes the prices in Norway so different? There is not a only cable between Middle Norway and south. There's a cable over Orkanger and Dovre, and in it there's about nothing going on, and it's the Fardal line. What will regulate it if it is not wired to Europe and the European market?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1264	The centre party will help secure and create green industry. Good power availability and reasonable prices in the north must be an advantage for the whole country. It will develop and further develop industry and future-oriented green jobs. A new motorway for power between north and south is not the solution for the power crisis people and business life in the south stand up in. This is an explicit policy both from the Workers' Party and the Central Party in the North, and it is an explicit policy from the Aasland Council of State. For example, government councils were quoted on this in NRK Nordland yesterday. I understand the intention of proposal No. 10, from Red, and I know that this intention to maintain the reasonable force in the north to the best of the nation is also anchored in the government. Industrial workplaces, value creation and good living conditions are also well anchored in the north in the Hurdal platform. In Stortinget we are now going to deal with the energy message with the new government's addition before the summer, and the government has also set down an energy commission. Security, preparedness and reasonable renewable energy are too important for us to be able to throw it forward as a so-called loose proposal in this room – at least that is my opinion. I understand the intention, but I do not think this proposal that Red has made is serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1273	I don't think the government is taking the challenges that the industry is going to face, sufficiently serious. I want to challenge the idea that is often put forward, that making Norway a commodity producer as well as climate friendly, because it is not. We have a very climate-friendly mainland industry based on renewable energy. If we jeopardize the power-intensive or power-processing industry, process industry or system industry, we are at risk of having to put them down and flag them out to countries like China and Russia. There is nothing environmentally friendly or positive about it, either for local communities or for global greenhouse gas emissions. The representative Astrup tried to challenge SV about hybrid cables and talked about which parts of the industry it is that have protested against it. Well, there are parts of the industry that have protested against it. It's Elkem, Norwegian Forest and Eramet, who don't want us to export the power out of the country, because we need renewable power ourselves to build a climate-friendly industry, to have something to live on when the oil ends – or even better: phase out, if we're going to take the climate crisis seriously. So the whole premise that exporting as much power as possible is going to be good for the world's total greenhouse gas emissions, we don't accept in Red. We believe that having renewable energy here at home to the industry at home is a better alternative than cheap labour in countries like Russia and China. So with that, I've tried to answer some of the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1284	The representative of Marhaug is told that we have a very weather-dependent power system in Norway. The incidence in Norwegian water storage plants varies between dry and wet years with as much as 60 TWh. As a result, industry in general has been in need of exchange capacity with the rest of the world to ensure predictable prices even in dry years. Our current powerful industry also needs much more power to become greener. So it's not just about new industrial establishment, but also about our current industry, and Red is against almost all new power generation in Norway. Therefore, there has been no good response to how we should address both the climate challenges and the power price crisis for our households and business. So to the representative Sve: I didn't say that we should have to build so many new foreign connections, as the representative Sve said. On the other hand, I said that reciprocal restrictions on connections, as we have today, can lead to our own security of supply getting worse this year where we really need the power. It is also not right that the representative Sve said that the last time we had a dry year was in 2006. Some will remember that it was quite dry and cold in 2010 and 2011, and then the electricity price in Middle Norway was up to 12 kroner per kW. And why is the power price so low in central Norway now? Well, the answer is Fosen, and the wind power plant there. It is a wind power plant that the representative Sve is likely to oppose today. We have a power surplus in the North of 50 TWh, so when the representative Sve asks where the power will come from: Yes, fortunately we have a surplus of power, and it will continue in the North, because 40 TWh will be built with new power – mainly wind power – in the North towards 2026. It's such a short perspective that we can say with certainty that it comes. Land around us also has great ambitions. The United Kingdom will build an enormous amount of new power generation, with consequences for prices. We're not going back any further than 8 April last year, then we imported 6,000 MWh in a clock hour - that's 40 pst. of Norway’s consumption, and the electricity price was 15 øre per kW in South Norway and 7 øre in North Norway – and the reason for this was that there was a lot of blowing in Denmark and Germany. So we've enjoyed this power import, and over the last few days we've also imported power for large parts of the day. This is because east of the watershed there is very little snow in the mountains, and the magazine filling is low, while west of the watershed is very much snow in the mountains, and the magazine filling is much higher. So it's a composite image, and we depend on the power flowing well, both within our own country and into our neighbouring country, to secure both industry, business and consumers. And then much more power needs to be built in the future to ensure that we get reasonable, clean and abundant power for households, industry and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1295	I just have to make it clear to the representative that SV wants to renegotiate these power export cables, but we don't think it's right to do it right now because of the situation in Europe. Of course, the export and the amount of power in the system will affect this, but it is still the marginal price system that we now have, which means that it is the last balancing force into the European market that perpetuates you the price of all power. Hence, if we regulate exports over power cables to ensure security of supply in Norway, it will not automatically lead to a lower price on the market force. Therefore, it is so important that the Energy Commission's report comes before we make a final decision on what to do. We've got support in place, we've got extra funds to support and so on to protect those who are going to be the hardest, and we have a political job to do at Stortinget to get control of this in the future. Then it's the energy message and what comes from the Energy Commission will add a little bit of the platform to what we're going to do. And I really hope we get control of this pricing that's hard on society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1304	When I heard Astrup's reply to me, I began to wonder if we haven't been in the same country in the last few months, because the current prices are going to heaven in Norway, and people have had five, ten and fifteen times right current prices in the East, South and West than normal. It hangs in hops with a record low filling level. We saw it, among others. of 10 April. Then the price was 16 øre/kWh in Denmark, everywhere in Sweden and in Middle Norway and northwards, while he was probably 170 kWh in East, South and Westland. It's strange if it wouldn't have anything to do with the huge magazine filling, but a pinch again eyeball and export further even if the magazine is approaching empty. It has something to do with a real perception of what is the basis for doing, and I think everyone is saying that low levels of filling and connection to Europe and the power market leading to price fixing in the East, South and West countries – where central and northern Norway do not have the same impact. I guess we're quite a few of them about that. So that there can be a lot more power generation with wind power, as it's said. It helps so little when there are virtually no cables and lines in Norway to transport that power. It does not help what is produced in Central and Northern Norway, because that stream does not benefit the East, South and Western countries in any case. That current travels straight to Sweden and through Sweden, for there are many 420 V-lines from North Sweden to South Sweden. The current goes straight through Sweden and does not benefit Norway at all. The government has to do something about expanding the grid, and that's what we've been pointing at. When it comes to expanding sea winds, etc., as some would like, the NVE has also pointed out that there are no lines and that it is possible to do it in the short term. One can probably do it in the long term, but it goes beyond other things anyway. And then it's our business. How long are we going to have a situation where the East, South and West industries in particular are being hit by sky-high electricity prices, sky-high fuel prices and in addition are getting more tolls, right-hand charges and right-hand interest rates? Everything goes wrong, and there is a competitive situation that is impossible for Norwegian businesses. Polish trailers fill 600 litres of diesel for 10-11 DKK/litre in Poland, drive to Norway, use 200 litres, licenses 200 litres to return and compete for Norwegian transport in Norway. It was the transport industry. What about all other businesses? Should we also export business to the rest of the world? I sincerely hope that the representative Astrup does not agree that we are going to export business to the rest of the world. We need a Norwegian business. The reason people live in Norway is because they actually have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1317	I wonder if the representative Astrup hears more than I actually say, when he refers to what I have said from the pulpit today. For the first time, I didn't talk about hybrid cables, but I like to take advantage of the occasion. I am very pleased that the government has decided to build radial at the South North Sea 2, because our land-based industry towards 2030 will need more energy. There's no doubt about it. Much of the debate has focused on whether we should contribute renewable energy to Europe. Norway is contributing with renewable energy to Europe today. We've been doing that for many years, and we're going to keep doing that, but a balance needs to be created. It's interesting to see and hear today's debate, because there are a lot of people who come up with different solutions to what's best to do, but it's the very thing that this government is now doing – by putting down the Energy Commission, by doing those evaluations, and through that dialogue to see how we're going to manage to achieve a better power balance in the future. When I read the intention behind the decisions and proposals that lie here today, I feel that the government is doing well to create a better balance in the power situation in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1328	There are today major plans for industrial expansion in both North Norway and Middle Norway. These are plans that are on the table because it is seen here that there are opportunities to invest in a new green industry that has access to reasonable power to live with and that makes it possible to compete both on the European market and on the world market with its products. It is important that we do not now throw these plans out with the bath water and provide for an expansion of the central network between Central and North Norway and South Norway. Therefore, SV will support the solution proposed by Red today, and we see no reason to force the development of the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1335	It is essentially the representative of Sve, who is no longer in the room: it is at least important to state that power in Norway should be a competitive advantage for industry and households should have reasonable energy. There should be no doubt about it. We fully agree that this is a major problem with high power prices. When the representative Sve refers to the low filling of the warehouse, especially in East Norway, it is due to the time of the year we are in. The filling of the warehouse is always low at this time. The second is that there has been extremely low rainfall east of the watershed, and that of course also affects the filling of the magazine. That's why it's important that we now have the ability to import power, from Sweden in particular, in order to defuse that magazine filling is as low as it is. But in other parts of the country, the situation is completely different, and that's exactly why we have to have a power system that's connected and that helps us get lower prices all the same, and we have to make sure that there's even lower prices by expanding more power.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1340	In the long debate, some representatives have been involved in electrification of the socket, and after 16 years in the oil industry, I think it really is an action that the Storting can now say no. We'll actually save 10 TWh. Now the EU also says that the gas is green, and then it is strange that the Storting cannot accept that gas turbines in the North Sea can still produce stable and good power on gas out there. We will also save approx. 50 B.C.E. kr not to electrify. Here, there are huge gains, both economically and in relation to our power resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1345	The issue we are discussing today is really about preparedness, but the debate is becoming more and more phased into discussing the high prices, and that with the readiness, which the Progress Party has called for in the debate, has disappeared. It's this that, like the European Union, we have our own contingency plan where we say we set a minimum. At some level that our warehouses come to, we're going to limit the possibility of power exports. The solution to this – it comes from most – is that we should only create new power and more power. I fully agree with that, because it is the capacity out of an area that limits access to power, and then also very quickly the price of power. So if we just get the power production up, we solve a lot of problems. But when I now challenged the state council for new power generation, it is very clear that it is very far ahead. We won't get the necessary force for the first five years, which we need now to ensure that security. The Progress Party has had several proposals up. We have had a majority in favour of some, among others. on new taxes on hydropower. We have not had a majority with us to look at the potential of hydropower, but yet the government chooses to use 10–15 TWh to electrify the socket during the period that Norway needs power and there is a completely different and new uncertain situation in Europe as to what power we have available, even in readiness when we get a dry year and depend on importing. Because what Europe has to offer us, it's just wind. If we get into the situation that it does not blow in Europe, we have a problem quickly. I really want to challenge also the Right, which is very high and dark on the sea wind. I'm for sea wind, too. I think we're going to succeed with sea wind, but I think the most important thing we do with sea wind is to proceed carefully. It's that we coordinate with other interests at sea. Whether it's fisheries, it's ocean minerals, or it's oil and gas, it's important that we move slowly. For the right has not said whether it is now accepted that we should have new exports through the hybrid cables? Is it accepted that the owner of the windmills should have the bottleneck revenues? It could also be right-wing answer us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1358	The absurd electricity prices are a self-inflicted social problem that the government refuses to solve. The cables built provide imports of sky-high German and British electricity prices to Norway. That was well explained in the debate on the NRC on Tuesday. The price fixing at the privatised Nord Pool power exchange must take account of exchange capacity, which means that much greater than it is physically possible to move to England tomorrow. So the bigger the cables we have, the more Norwegian customers have to pay a foreign price to keep the power here in the country. So with the England cable and the German cable last fall, the prices went to heaven. This is gold for the power directors, but it is not the income from exports that has been forecast; it is the import of the high foreign prices into Norway. 90 pst. by the flow they produce is sold in Norway, so if the electricity price here increases by 5 ø on an annual basis per kWh, the profits of the power producers increase by about 7 kWh. kr per year. It's not export income, it's redistribution, and the ones that hit are the most people, all businessmen with electricity costs and not least the backbone of Norwegian industry, that's power-intensive industry around the country. These imports of sky-high European electricity prices are profitable for a few electricity companies and the directors, but are a socio-economic disaster, and worse so. With the new cable planned to integrate Mid Norway and North Norway into the market, they will also enjoy being integrated into European electricity prices. As Morten Andreas Meyer said in the debate on Tuesday, they too will be part of the European prize picture. Then Statnett's income will rise, probably also top management wages, but prices will go up in the north as well. The Council of State says we need to resolve the power price crisis with more power generation. He's wrong. The price crisis is not due to a lack of power, but politically determined imports of foreign prices into a country that is self-sufficient in cheap and green electricity. That's what industry itself says. Because we've built so many cables, more power will easily be pushed out again to Germany and England instead of bringing down the power prices in Norway. The government points to investigations, but it doesn't last. What is needed is to follow the demand of the trade union movement for political control over power, i.e. also above the power prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1376	I think it is quite interesting to hear the resistance of the Progress Party to electrification of the base. I hope that means that the Progress Party is now changing its view of the development of the two largest electrification projects we have on the base, namely the Oscar Wisting field far north of the Barents Sea, where we are at risk of losing Finnmark for power to produce polluting oil and gas – and that the Progress Party is now also turning its attention to the development of Noaka/Krafla, voting against electrification of that field and thus ensuring that we do not have it built out either. These are the two deciduous largest electrification projects on a Norwegian base in the years to come, and shore-side electricity is planned. I hope we get the Progress Party on the team to stop these projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1381	Only a few points – one is that it was previously mentioned that the EU has said that gas is green. They didn't say that. What the EU has said is that investments in some new gas power plants that are more efficient than some previously built gas power plants that specifically replace coal-fired power stations can be green investments. This has nothing to do with gas in general. So to the representative of Moxnes who manufactures prices in Norway – as he says – as self-inflicted, and that it is a European phenomenon with high prices that we now collect to ourselves. And he does not take with him the cause of the high prices in Europe, which is the Russian detention of gas earlier and now the Russian attack on Ukraine that makes Europe have to end its import of Russian gas. I believe that Norway should support this. We have to be for that. It is a joint responsibility to support Ukraine, and it is a shared responsibility to put pressure on Russia. I think it is right that we should also contribute to the European transition with renewable energy. And there will be more power exchange in the future than it is now, because as Europe also builds its renewable energy – whether it is wind power for the United Kingdom or Scotland. By the way, I'm still for NorthConnect because Scotland, with its sea-window construction and wind power expansion, is laying the groundwork for exports to Norway as one of their opportunities, and something that can contribute with cheaper power here when the need is there. It is clear that, as Europe becomes more renewable and receives more renewable production, they will also be able to make a reasonable contribution here. I think it is right that Norway should be part of this development, and that is a development on which Norwegian industry will serve, and as Norwegian power producers — that is. very many Norwegian municipalities and others – will also serve. And that leads to a more power-independent Europe. Finally, as rapporteur-general, this has been a long and good debate. I think perhaps none of the parties have agreed more through this debate, but it is certain that the debate we have had now will come back to the discussion of the Energy Communication. It is one of the really big, important decisions and the theme of Norway that will emerge in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1394	The President agrees with the idea that we should discuss this more.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1399	I can follow up the case rapporteur on the matter, because I hope that one in the course of the debate will realize that it is wise to gather and try to find some broad solutions on how to deal with one of the major challenges in the future. It is one thing – to be involved and contribute to stability in Europe when they are to break free from Russian gas is a major and important task. We shall contribute by being a predictable and safe partner. I think that's important. It's important for our own part as well. Then I have to correct a manifest misunderstanding with the representative of Moxnes, who said that building up new power was the solution to the situation now. I didn't say that. But we have a growing need for power, and a representative like Moxnes should have read the LO and NHO reports that show how much more power you need in the future. Then there is a need to expand more power, significantly more power than Red has ever intended to propose, because they really have no power policy at all. Making sure that we have sufficient access to clean and reasonable resources is a prerequisite for industry to continue its development in Norway. Then we have to take care of it while, through sea winds, we can create new industrial opportunities and succeed in doing so. With regard to the short-term measures, I believe that Red's proposals would have contributed so far to creating considerable uncertainty for some of what Red claims to defend through this with industry, further development and the basis for future investments – not least investment now in the green shift, which is quite essential. So just one comment also to the Progress Party on electrification of the socket: I would encourage them to listen a little to what the employees out on the socket are saying. They are concerned just about bringing down greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring that one gets electrified where possible, precisely because they, like the government, want this to be a development venue and not a winding-up venue. The proposals of the Progress Party will initially wind up the oil and gas industry because one does not take into account the climate challenges through what is there. It's kind of a little bit of a challenge. But I hope that until the discussion of the energy message and the next debate in this room, we can agree on something more. I think that would have been a very safe foundation for those who are going to invest in the very themes we are now talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1412	The representative of Terje Halleland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1417	Now I would like to have the Council of State say that the Progress Party wants to wind up the oil and gas industry. I don't think the government even believes that, so I won't elaborate that much more. But comrade Haltbrecken challenged us to say no to electrifying some fields on the base to prevent the expansion. That's what I'm going to guarantee comrade Haltbrecken that it's not going to happen. When the Advance Party is opposed to electrification, it is like a climate action. Wisting is a project that there is not enough gas to run over the lifetime, and therefore that project will not be developed if it does not have access to electricity. That is why the Progress Party says this is an industrial project. Of course, we then support a country-wide electrification so that we can establish new fields in the Barents Sea, facilitate infrastructure and have new opportunities to develop even more gas and thus also help Europe at these times.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1424	The President would like to point out that "comrade" Moxnes may not be an expression we're going to use here in the staging room, but now the representative Bears Moxnes from Red is going to get the floor. Here you go, Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1429	It's almost May 1st – you'll hear. There is one thing that the Council of State never talks about, picks up or responds to, and that is that the price of Norwegian power to Norwegian customers reflects the European power situation, not the Norwegian one. It will never be mentioned by the Workers' Party. That's also why if so Aasland places every watercourse we have, in pipes, peppers every hollow and every nose with wind turbines, the price will not go down on Norwegian electricity, for the price of Norwegian electricity to Norwegian customers is determined through North Pool by the situation in England and Germany. This is because – together with the Right, for all, and also the Progress Party and almost the whole of the Sulamite – the Workers' Party has been subject to our legacy of both stock-based and EU-regulated free trade. So whether it's quiet as in the grave from the Workers' Party. That is why it is totally wrong when Aasland said in the debate on NRK on Tuesday that the power price crisis in South Norway needs to be resolved in South Norway, and this is about more production. Then Aasland should read the letter sent from IndustryEl on 15 December on behalf of actors like Yara and Eramet. They wrote that the problem is that we have built so much exchange capacity that all the power we can release or expand, easily disappears out of the country without reducing Norwegian power prices. This is the main challenge: the Workers' Party refuses to take political control of power prices, because it is challenging market forces. It is quite understandable that the Left, the Right and also the Advance Party are having trouble with it. But that the Workers' Party refuses to take political control of energy prices too, I think quite a lot of people are out in industry, in trade movements, and not least among the red-green voters. It's good and good with a commission, but it may not seem like the power of action of the Aasland Commission. And while the Commission is working, we get a summer with record power prices and a government that is holding hands and not addressing the basic problem, which is that the price of Norwegian power to Norwegian customers is determined by prices in Europe due to the integration of the EU's free flow of electricity. A government for ordinary people has to address the power prices, and many expect the Workers' Party to start to take the consequences of it soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1442	The representative of Mr Birgit Oline Kjerstad has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1447	The previous speaker described very well that we also have a market system that is in crisis, and a market failure. What I thought I was going to mention now and remind you of the silence of the debate is, first of all, that we need more power. We're a few of them about that. But second, the largest power plant is the power we don't use. There is often undercommunication of the potential of using the force more effectively through on-line measures and production in barley. It is also an important step to reduce the vulnerability to high power prices in Norway and Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1453	I have not said that it is the development of new power that solves the situation now. I have said very clearly that the price crisis in the south must be resolved in the south and not in the north. I said that in the debate, I was very clear on that, and I think that is a very correct approach to the problem, because in the north we have a quite normal situation, and then we have a total collapse in the price market in Europe and in South Norway and West Norway as a result. That's why we've said that we should go through all sides of the situation. We will examine all aspects of export, price trends and price sensitivity in relation to it, stock filling, energy security, etc. as a result of the situation. That it's sitting with your hands in jail getting good investigations as the basis for long-term, good conclusions, I don't think I'm sitting with my hands in jail. I think it's a wise approach to a rather demanding situation. We have helped the power customers and households right now with a power support system that I believe works. We come after the negotiations with SV here in Stortinget to increase the support arrangements from October to 90 pst. - from 80 pst. Now. I think that's a good approach. In addition, the government has taken the initiative to put in place better fixed-price agreements, which I believe is also important for predictability and stability for both Norwegian businesses and households. So I'm not going to go on with the debate on the power-generating industry and what would have been the situation if Red had run. Then we might not have had a surplus of power at all, but we can come back to that when we deal with the energy message and take a full debate on it then.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1464	The representative of the Bears Moxnes has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor for a brief comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1469	Anyone who wants to see the debate and see what the Council of State said there. The important point is that Statnett wants to integrate Central Norway and North Norway into European prices by forcing the construction of new cables between north and south in Norway. It will both drain North Norway for the power surplus and also give them the pleasure of paying the time gamble or triple the production cost of their current. If the Council of State considers that these problems are not solved elsewhere than in South Norway, the question is, of course, why is the government not able to support the proposal provided by Red, to put an end to the plans to support the construction of cables between the north and the south of Norway. It will be important to keep low prices in the north, and it will be important also for the industry in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1476	Several have not asked for the floor for the debate on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1493	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1502	Let me first thank the Cooperation Committee. I think most of us who are happy football, prefer a dew fresh, fine, green mat with natural grass, where the gardener has stolen and stiff, cut and fertilized, watered and provided completely optimal conditions for the game many love, either as players or as spectators. But it's been a long time since we heard about elite teams in Norway that trained on gravel in the winter. Recently we could actually hear a concern that the Norwegian elite series was becoming a pure artificial grassy. This is because the artificial grass courses have widened and made the football a year-round sport in the winter country of Norway for both width and top. It has enabled more people to cultivate their sport, their passion, and stay in shape throughout the year. Unfortunately, this success also has a backside, and that is that they represent a large source of contamination of microplastics in nature, as well as 1 700 artificial grass plants in Norway. It is caused by the rubber cullet used as filler in the paths, which gives play conditions as close as a natural lawn can give. After car traffic it is actually the artificial grass tracks that account for the largest release of microplastics in this country, and of course it cannot be that way. The football has therefore, in cooperation with several players, among others. The county councils and the Ministry of Culture have carried out several projects that have tried to find good substitutes for rubber cullet — substitutes that have the same playing characteristics and that ensure that players can play safely and well without damage. In 2021 a requirement was introduced in the pollution regulation for the design and operation of the artificial grass tracks following a decision in Stortinget. It came into force on 1 July last year, I think it was, and it could probably reduce the emissions from the tracks by 90 pst. It also imposes an obligation on the railway owner to consider alternatives if this can be done without undue cost or disadvantage. So football and plant owners have had a little less year in relation to the reinforced requirements to provide a more environmentally friendly way of operating the facilities. As I mentioned, there are many projects out there to find alternative filling materials, and intensive work is being done to adapt existing and new systems to regulations to prevent rubber cullet from draining and draining – even in the shoes and jogging pants of the players. I guess we all experienced that when the kids came from football training. The majority therefore agree that it is important to do something about this, but it is wise to wait for the results of last year's tightening up before we take a new grip. To investigate and propose a total ban now would be a major disadvantage for the installations in the process of adapting to new requirements. It is not, therefore, a bad will from the Storting that makes us reject today's proposal, but that there are already effective measures and developments are being monitored on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1523	Norway introduced its own control of artificial turf tracks with rubber cullet in the summer of 2021. The regulation is designed to reduce the emission of rubber cullet by a total of 90 pst. Here's Norway in front. The rules set requirements for physical barriers and ensure that those responsible have to handle both overwater and snow in order to prevent rubber cullet from getting on the road. The regulation also requires information for the users of the path, so that they can prevent the spread of rubber cullet. Plastic pollution is one of the greatest global environmental problems of our time. It has consequences for terrestrial and marine ecosystems, and it has consequences for the economy and for human welfare. Plastic pollution is high on both national and international agendas, and Norway – with Espen Barth Eide at the head – has signed a historic agreement between countries in the world to establish a legally binding global agreement to stop the plastic pollution in the world. It is important to work with plastic pollution units, and especially microplastic emissions from artificial grass tracks, which are currently the subject of the agenda. This is the second largest source of microplastics from land-based sources in Norway, and this is a source that Norway has captured. The rules were adopted after thorough processes less than one year ago. Activators now align themselves with the rules, but the rules need time to work. This is one of the reasons why we do not support today's proposal to ban rubber cullet. But we expect that the regulation introduced in the summer of 2021 will significantly reduce the emissions of rubber cullet over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1534	Even those of us who were always chosen last in football in high school know that rubber cullet from our 1,700 artificial grass courts is a great source of microplastic contamination. We're probably talking about 1 500 tons of rubber cullet from artificial grass tracks that end up in nature every year, and we know that this has major consequences for the sea, rivers, animals and marine food chains. If we are to ensure that the amount of plastic in the sea goes down – and does not increase, as you almost estimate – in the years to come, we need to take action. That is why I am very pleased that the Solberg government introduced a new code on the design and operation of artificial grass tracks less than a year ago. The new pollution regulation could reduce pollution from rubber cullet by more than 90 pst. As mentioned earlier, there are quite concrete demands. It is in the case of physical barriers around the sport course that the person responsible must ensure the proper handling of drainage and overwater and snow to prevent rubber cullet drifting and, in particular, that all responsible assesses the existence of alternatives for plastic filling material. I would like to stress the last, because we know that there are already new technologies that help bring new and better alternatives to rubber cullet, but that there is of course some disagreement about the game characteristics, the environmental effects and the lifetime of the alternatives. Right, it is very important that sport continues to develop good alternatives, and that we have clear expectations that the track owners will switch to environmentally friendly alternatives as soon as possible. It is very important that we follow the processes of the European Union and the European Commission. They have announced new regulations related to microplastics, including rubber cullet, and we know that this problem is an international problem, and that there are many countries that together can develop new and good alternatives. I also hope that when Norway has now gone ahead with the new regulation, our experience can be an important contribution to any future EU legislation. For the right, it's important that we now let the contractions work. Several installations are in the process of making the necessary investments to adapt to new requirements. Then, of course, we have to consider changes along the way. The letters of the Council of State indicated that the Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality is to carry out its annual review of the grant scheme for facilities for sport and physical activity. That's good, but also here it's important for the Right that we base the basic principle, and that's that the polluter has to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1547	Just before Easter, I was so lucky to get the White Polar Institute measuring station at the Zeppelin Mountain in New Ålesund. On the wall there was a graphical representation of how the toxic PCBs, which were banned several decades ago, still exist in the environment. The curves point straight down, but there are still many decades to go before this pollutant is broken down and gone – if it ever does. Environmental toxins are transported with air and water and sea currents and affect all life. Pollution from pollutants is boundless, and we don't know the cocktail effect of them. Norwegian and international researchers warn against toxic substances that may leak out of discarded car tyres. The second largest source of microplastic emissions in Norway is artificial grass webs. These represent almost 30 pst. of the total release of microplastics in Norway. Rubber pieces and rubber cullet from car tyres are a source of pollution and environmental dispersal. Microplastics are now found in human blood, and we don't know what the consequences of this. The additive to soften and strengthen the carcass and prevent flames is the same as to make them toxic when they are painted and used on a football field or a playground. I myself have been involved in creating such a ballbang and I do not believe that I was involved in affecting the environment as I did. I've seen how there are piles of rubber cullet around a path, and just below the creek. Birds and animals are wrong about rubber and food. It is good that there are tightening in and coming regulations, but I believe that the time has come to prohibit the use of rubber cullet. I don't think the proposal to require physical blocking and drainage around artificial grass and rubber cullet plants is a guarantee to stop pollution from spilling into the environment. Where does the drainage end? Is there a developed treatment plant to separate the harmful chemicals? At least I know that it's not in my home, and it's shooting a long arrow after. The EU is also working on a ban on rubber cullet on artificial turf tracks. SV believes it is important to stop the use of rubber cullet and wipe out and create plans for removal where it is used. The longer we wait, the more expensive it becomes to clean up after this environmental impact. With this, I would like to make our minority proposals, no. 1 and 2, on behalf of SV, Red, Left, Green and Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 3, on behalf of SV, Red and Environment Party Dei Green.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1564	The representative of Birgit Oline Kjerstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1569	As a former councillor, I had the pleasure of starting work on the regulation that was adopted in the summer of 2021 to limit pollution from artificial grass tracks. We started the work before the decision was made on Stortinget. I think that the time we did it, both I and many others were surprised at how much pollution came from artificial grass courts, how large numbers this was, and how big a problem it was. Now I believe that the regulation that has been adopted is good. It will reduce pollution when followed — and it will be followed — by 90 pst., from a very high emission figure. I agree that it is important that this should work, because sports are also in a very different situation. Many can make these investments quite simple, for others it is more demanding to get them in place. At the same time, the Left will vote in favour of two of the proposals, including: this asking that we finally have a ban on rubber cullet on artificial grass tracks. It's because there shouldn't be any doubt that that's what we're going to be. At some point there will be a ban, and I think it's wise to start that work now. The proposal does not say anything about the introduction of a ban. I believe this needs to be investigated, and the sports laws and others also need to know how quickly that change must come. We have good experience from the past in making such decisions, such as that only a zero-emission vehicle should be sold in 2025 – i.e. the year by which this conversion can be made. I think that job will be good to do, to start now to get this done. What we are now at risk is that the EU is making the ban or restrictions for us in advance, because there are processes going on, and I don't know the content of it. But, as you know from the past, they are quite offensive to impose restrictions. Finally, plastic pollution and pollution are therefore as great an international crisis as the climate crisis and the natural crisis in which we are. I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on reaching an agreement in the United Nations Environment Assembly that we should have a global plastic agreement. I myself was elected chairman of the United Nations Environment Assembly in my time, but that work is now being done was by no means automatic. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1580	It is nice to congratulate and boast, but it should take place within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1585	I think the representative Elvestuen was on a very good track when he was clubbed! I would like to thank you for that congratulations and say that this is a laurel. This is a work that has been done over the years, through several governments, so we can share the joy by now agreeing to develop an internationally legally binding ban or regulation of microplastics, or of plastics at all. This is a major and important problem, and, as all speakers have rightly mentioned, it is that in Norway rubber cullet is one of the two largest sources of microplastic emissions, which end in nature – in the sea, in our drinking water, in fish, in food and eventually also in us. I have tested my own blood in the recording of the United Nations Environment Assembly, and there were found both residues of plastic there and also chemicals associated with plastics, so that this problem is very extensive, there is no doubt about it. Therefore, the Stortinget has also taken action in the past, and as the then big-time representative, I had the pleasure of participating in and promoting the proposal that helped the former Council of State Elvesuen initiate this important work. I would like to stress that it was a unanimous big deal that asked the previous government to do exactly what the previous government ended up doing, namely to develop regulations that would – strictly – regulate this. It was also a unanimous decision on big business. In fact, the government spent a little longer time than the Storting had wanted, but let go; it was now at least implemented as desired. And then I support the majority's view, that now these regulations must be allowed to work, one must be able to evaluate the consequences of them, how effective they are. But I would also like to stress, as fortunately more people were inside, that there are not only rules in these regulations on how to build and organize artificial grass paths, but that you should also be looking for alternatives constantly. It is also my belief that we are going for a ban in the long term and that that ban will eventually come from the European Union. What has now been investigated in the EU, however, is the prohibition of versus regulation, and those regulations may perhaps be somewhat in line with the regulations we have already introduced in Norway. So I think it's wise for the majority of the committee – and the majority of the majority – to take some time to help see how the regulations that are now in place will work, but that we have a long-term look at the fact that we need to find better alternatives in the long term to make sure that we can play football even in the winter throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1596	There's probably no disagreement in this room that we want to do something, that plastic screening is a big problem that we have to get alive. I was probably also one of those who was always chosen last in football, if I was chosen at all, because I had no talents there, but we have several hundred thousand football players in this country, and they also have to be taken care of. Not many weeks ago, I was in a debate at the Viken Sports Circle, where art grass, alternative filling materials and the pad were the theme, how to deal with this in the future – an all-day conference. With the exception of one of my counter-debateants from SV, there was a broad consensus that this is a problem we should do something about. The sport wants to sit in the driver's seat, the sport wants to bring this problem to life, but there must be good alternatives in place before we move towards a ban. I believe that the ban will come in the long term, but this will affect a great many children and young people. And it doesn't just hit the big league either. In the Committee's position, I see that there are already good options for broadband. It doesn't, and it's for all players who weigh over 60 kg, that's 12 year olds and up. Men's players from the 4th division and up, 2nd division for women, are not allowed, and we now have so many examples of clubs that have already replaced fill-in material, but that experience that the track becomes useless. Nardo Football Club in Trondheim exchanged material and almost could not use the track afterwards. Trondheim has therefore reverted to its decision to have a total ban. My own home municipality, Lørenskog, adopted a ban on artificial grass with rubber cullet, but sees that this does not work. There are currently not enough alternatives. We see that the Viken County Council passed a ban, but it is so strict that even though they are now testing out a material that has 99.2 pst. less plastic, it is not approved, and this puts our sports teams and our players in a very difficult situation. I fully agree that we are going to have a conversion, I fully agree that we are moving towards a ban, but before we get there, we actually have to have proper alternatives in place. It must not be harmful for our players to play on these courses, and we must be able to make sure that all these hundreds of thousands of players can be in activity all year round. I believe that we must now follow the international work of the Council of States. We have an art grass project, KG2021, that's going on, that's going to be evaluated, that's going to give us more information, and I think that these things we have to get the results of before we're even moving in the vicinity of setting a ban. I agree that we can push on as politicians, but to set a year now or to start considering setting a year now before we know that this is realistic, I believe will be the wrong way to go. It will put our sports teams in a very difficult situation, and it will make it difficult – and actually not safe – for all the hundreds of thousands of people who play.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1610	Now said the last talk very much of what I had intended to say, but as I have pointed out earlier in this matter, the legislation has not yet worked. It points to the sports laws, which really have to be converted, but we should not forget the municipalities. There are a lot of municipalities in our country that own these facilities, and they have to be involved. There are large costs related to the changes in the legislation already in place. Plastic pollution is undoubtedly one of the biggest problems, and it has to be solved, but there is no doubt that the legislation that is already here and that a total collapse in the last period was behind, as we have now learned, is very, very good. I think we should trust the municipalities and the sports teams in Norway. I think there are a lot of municipalities and sports teams that want those alternatives to be warmly welcomed, but it will take some time. Given that this legislation will now be implemented, additional costs will be incurred by municipalities using rubber cullet. Then I believe that as soon as there is another alternative available, both municipalities and sports teams will turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1617	It's almost made as if we've seen a date. We haven't. What we're asking is for the government to issue a ban on rubber cullet, and in such a way, a signal will be given that it will come. I think that to sit and wait for these regulations that are now coming should work, simply take too long. It's high time to get further into the shoes when it comes to this huge environmental problem. It's also not good for the kids to play in one place and know that what's going on there is destroying the environment. It's not good for the mental health, nor for the physical. Let me just make it clear: it's a ban and find the solutions that push this process to get a ban as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1643	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is Judge Himanshu Gulati, but he is not present. Then the next speaker is Kari-Anne Jønnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1652	Here in Norway we see the end of the pandemic, but the consequences of it we have to live on for a long time. The consequences are great for students and students. They've been hit hard, and the pandemic's been skewed. Yesterday was the deadline for applying for higher vocational education and higher education, and on the news today early we could hear again that until the fall we get a big litter of first-year students, who have had a completely different high school. They've missed a lot, both professionally and socially. They've had a lot of digital education. They haven't had any exams, and they've had long periods without socialization and activity. In addition, thousands of second, third and fourth year students have moved from home for the first time during the pandemic. They have moved to new cities and towns without social networking and have been met by empty streets, social exclusion as a framework for their studies, rather than lively campus environments and inclusive environments. The pandemic has set a trail, and there are tracks that will seem over time, if we as a society don't contribute to wiping them out. Therefore, in the Right, we believe that it is important and right for each student and for society to ask the government to consider measures to provide more high-quality education, so that students who have missed a lot of time under the pandemic are given the opportunity to resume the lost and be prepared for further studies. So I want to add that in addition to the focus on getting lost study progress, it is important to contribute to our students being well. If they're not doing well, it's hard to learn. It is difficult to achieve good results, to function well socially and simply to manage life. Therefore, it is more important than ever to use noisy and inclusive student environments and to continue with small but important measures that make a big difference for individuals and thus for society. For example, student relationships arranged walking tours, mentoring schemes and digital colloquia groups, which are some of the fine things that happened during the pandemic, and which I hope we can continue after the pandemic. So the time has come to stretch out a hand and include everyone, both professionally and socially.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1665	If there's a group I think all of us in this room have been hurting under the corona pandemic, it's the students. I think a lot of us who have studied, remember the time we left the bus in a whole new place, where maybe you didn't know anybody, ready to start a new day in a whole new environment, in a new university. It's a feeling we went to school outside the corona pandemic, connecting with expectations and joy, but as the students who went to school under the corona connect with uncertainty and maybe also with fear, because you came to a new place without knowing anyone. And because of the Corona restrictions, many of the social opportunities to both get acquainted with people and develop as students and people were also removed from many students. I think that concerns all of us sitting here in the hall. Furthermore, universities, but not least students, work well and thoroughly to form the social arenas that create both inclusion and mastering, and that make the students thrive around the universities. I think the best measures are some of the measures this government is working on. It's about putting more emphasis on the free movement of students. It's about giving universities the opportunity to do good teaching, because everyone here may also agree that Teams education is worse than sitting in a lecture hall. I would like to quote a little bit from the hearing replies that came in from some student trustees at, among other things. the universities of Bergen, Oslo and Trondheim, NMBU and NTNU. They say quite clearly about the proposal promoted by the Left that ‘the measures outlined in the draft submitted are poor’. They also say: ‘If you want to expand the academic year, you have to ask whether the examination period has to be moved. If not, education will occur after the examination period, which the students will not give priority to.’ I would therefore like to ask the Left what they really mean by this proposal? Do they want to impose education on students in the summer or whether they want to move exams, which are already in the process? And I'll say in the end that the day we don't have the goal of increasing education, and I'll end up with politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1687	Of course, the pandemic has also affected the students and their everyday lives. Nevertheless, I would like to point out and say that I am very pleased – I don't know if it's right to say that – that the pandemic happened in a digital age. How the pandemic had met as a student in the 1990s is difficult to imagine. The measures we had to take to take the learning outcomes had to be enormous. However, the digital education that has taken place has also shown that a lot of learning has been done for the students, and the results have also improved in some places. In order to re-establish the lost learning which is also there, it is important that dialogue be established between the departments and the institutions. We are now in what we can call a normal day of study, and there are clear demands for the institutions to provide a good training for the students, with physical education to the maximum extent possible. However, it should also be possible to learn from the pandemic — where appropriate, it shall be possible to use the digital tools developed super-fastly during the time of the pandemic. I would also like to point out the seriousness that has been mentioned earlier here, which concerns the psychosocial environment. Maybe the hardest thing for students under the pandemic has been when they haven't been able to attend student parties and social teams, meet people and get relationships in a whole new place. That's why it's important to point out what the government has done, at $170 million. kr, which shall include and pay for any of the measures taken in the meetings with the institutions, student relations and others. It's important to take seriously what the pandemic has done for us differently. This is what affects in a positive direction, but it is not least about addressing the challenges that lie there. I think the institutions have received a clear message from the department, and I expect qualitatively good education for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1698	The vote will take a break in the debate on item No. Eight, and there's a call for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1710	The size now goes to voting on the case no. 1–6 and Case No. 14 on Agenda No 69.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1719	Case No. One to three are the second processing of legal acts and relate to Acts 58, 59 and 60. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1733	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Progress Party and Patient Focus proposal No 2, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus proposal No 3, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and Patient Focus There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to entrust regional health businesses with the task of providing a framework for cost-effective compensation for non-profit actors in the specialist health service in the event of major unforeseen events. The framework should take into account their obligation to act, ensure that any changes in the operation of their offers are sound and provide protection against such events leading to bankruptcy.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1762	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1767	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1779	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that compensation schemes for non-profit hospitals are predictable and at the same level as for public hospitals at possible corona costs in the future.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1796	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that private health operators with additional costs related to the pandemic are compensated for.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1818	Red, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1832	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1837	Then everyone gets sharper, and then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1856	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Seher Aydar on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus proposal No 4, from Seher Aydar on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party proposal No 5, from Seher Aydar on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that children are given access to the fixed medical system without any legal delay, in order to ensure their right to the highest achievable health standard and to treatment for illness and rehabilitation.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1885	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that persons without permanent residence in the State are given access to the fixed medical system.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1902	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to evaluate regulations on the right to health and care services for people without permanent residence in the kingdom and to make necessary changes so that the provision of health services to vulnerable groups, such as children, persons with disabilities, pregnant women and the elderly, is in line with the offer made to the population elsewhere.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1919	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a funding mechanism for treatment staff so that they can be reimbursed for expenses and medicines given to patients outside the public sector.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1937	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks to amend § 5(a) of the regulation on the right to health and care services for people without permanent residence in the country, so that those who are already in the country receive primary health services in line with other citizens.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1961	The Socialist Left Party, Red, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e1980	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Terje Halleland on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party the proposals No 4-7, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 8, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Socialist Left, Left and Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 9, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Left and the Greens proposal No 10, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 10 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that the transmission capacity from the price ranges NO4 and NO3 to the price ranges NO1, NO2 and NO5 be not accelerated in today’s power situation with unregulated power exports and high-price speculation while water storage is being tapped.’; The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2018	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for better transmission capacity between Norway and Europe to ensure Europe’s transition to a renewable energy system, inter alia, by allowing hybrid cables for the development of the Southern North Sea 2.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2033	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in long-term committed energy cooperation with the EU to contribute to the EU’s plans for a faster shift away from fossil energy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2048	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the initiative to renegotiate the agreements for the North Sea Link, NorNed and NordLink cables to distribute the revenue from the cables and to distribute the gain to end-users over the network tariff where applicable.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government not to set aside a greater share of domestic power generation for power regulation of its own consumption than today.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of an export tax to be assessed on the basis of force, the consequences thereof and the revenue to be generated.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the EU and the United Kingdom to negotiate with the United Kingdom with a view to ensuring that long periods of clean power exports are avoided during periods of low capacity filling’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2081	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a separate price range around the power cables that can be controlled and to regulate the price in this area up to meet prices abroad, in order to ensure that we do not export when prices in Norway are high and the magazines are too low, and to push prices down in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests that an increased minimum level of filling of the water reservoirs be established by the Government in addition to current requirements. The investigation shall assess the different filling level requirements for the purposes of the median of the different magazines, the impact on the electricity prices over the year, the impact on power generation and flood protection, the distribution effect of income between producers and the impact on security of supply.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2103	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider the possibilities contained in the electricity exchange agreements to limit power exports in periods where the filling rate is significantly lower than normal.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2128	Red and Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2147	The party of progress, the Red Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2466	I share the concerns of the proposers for the students and how they are doing now after a long time of infectious diseases restrictions in our universities and colleges. We know how important it is to be on campus and meet both professionally and socially. Many students have also been hard hit financially — on the one hand, when part-time jobs have disappeared and the same financial safety net has not been provided to other workers and, on the other hand, when prices in society have increased. The question is, what is the right medicine? SV agrees with the Norwegian student organisation and others in the hearing, who believe that proposals from the right-hand side on, among others. extension of the academic year is not what is needed now, but rather that institutions, as always, need to improve their follow-up of students. It also determines the majority in the vote. Then the social cannot be understated. The annual report on the health of students has long been alarming, and the pandemic has only made it worse. Without doing well in everyday life, it is difficult to complete the studies. It is therefore important that the SV and the government parties agreed in January to grant 170 million. more to the psychosocial provision of institutions. It's money that can also go to student volunteering, which is important, and that does a very good job of creating life, sharing and including on campus. Bad economics can affect both health and the ability to actually invest in the studies. When students have to work more to get their ends to meet, so much so that they go beyond the studies, or that they are prevented by poor finances on a daily basis, it clearly goes beyond the implementation. Therefore, there is an increased scholarship of NOK 3000 for all students with electricity costs, which SV was able to negotiate in January, also important, but it is clear that it does not last. In the time we're in now, with a high price increase, student support just becomes less and less valuable. Therefore, the fight to increase student support is only becoming more important to ensure that all students now have good opportunities to resume their lost and bets on their studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2481	Close up in the auditorium, hours at the reading room, coffee in the canteen, lab trials, spring games, new friends, after play, maybe some new strangers – there are many ways to describe student life. But the previous two years, there are few or none of the things I mentioned, that have marked the time for our students. The lectures have held their lectures on Teams, the students have spent most of the hours of the day on the shelves, and the faderuka went digitally or in small groups with a good distance and with a mouthband and everything. I remember a picture of a student who attended a digital social event. He had stood still and settled himself, but instead of going out the door he had been solution-oriented and turned up the ironing board in front of the bed. On the ironing board stood the PC and a beer box. I thought it was so lonely and difficult, because how do you really become friends with Teams if you don't know people from before? Our students have two tough years behind them, but this is not primarily about the professional progress. The students have had it tough socially, professionally and economically. The numbers show that solitude has increased. Several students report poorer mental health. Many depended on financial assistance from home when the part-time job fell off and the students did not receive a daily allowance. Not everyone has parents who can help, and new numbers show that a whole 28 pst. During the course of the study, the students take up consumer loans. There's something we can't be acquainted with in one of the richest countries in the world. Today, the Norwegian student organisation is gathered for a national meeting. We should listen to the students' own demands and wishes, and they can briefly be summarized as follows: Increase the level of funding. A report from the SSB from 2020 states that the more you work alongside the studies, the less likely you are to be on exams. Increased funding is good implementation policy, and it is good for the student and good for society that they have time and energy to study. Build more student homes. Expensive hybels and expensive student collectives eat up the student's monthly payments and result in most people working alongside or receiving financial assistance. Includes students in the daily allowance scheme. Why should one waiter have rights and the other not? There has been a difficult period, and it is not going to escape that it has had consequences for the dividends both professionally and socially. Now, when we're going to find the good steps forward, we have to listen to the students themselves to find the right medicine. We have to make sure that there are good enough frames for the students to have time to be students.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2504	The pandemic has had a major impact on students all over the country. There have already been a lot of previous speakers. I also see from the letter sent by the Council of State that much of the problem description is agreed. Extensive digital education and lack of social community at the place of study have made it difficult for some students to have the professional development they wanted. The 2021 study barometer stresses that students have experienced the quality of online education as inferior to physical education and that they have experienced this teaching as less motivating. I would like to stress that universities and colleges have had a demanding job of adapting education during the pandemic, and that it is impressive what they have done in a short time and during a difficult period. Nevertheless, it is serious that so many students have experienced online education as demanding for their everyday study. Then I am pleased – and that is positive – that the proportion of Bachelor's students who complete in normal time has increased in pandemic years 2020 and 2021, and that the proportion of Master's students who complete in normal time is higher in 2021 than it has been in many years. This does not mean, however, that students have experienced good professional education, but that many have managed well despite the difficulties of the pandemic. The Government, in its letter to the Committee, explains much of the work the Ministry of Knowledge has done and does to strengthen education. The left agrees that institutions have responsibilities and freedom in terms of content and instruction. The proposal is not formulated with a view to overarching the instruments of the educational institutions, but as an instrument which can be assessed in dialogue with the institutions. Centre on Experiential Legal Learning, CELL, at the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo, mainly supports proposal 1 which has been promoted. We agree with the CELL that the implementation of the proposal should work to avoid any adverse side effects. The left also agrees that the most important thing is to choose the most appropriate teaching and assessment methods for achieving the learning objectives and ensuring learning outcomes. The pandemic has led to a significant development of digital offerings at the universities. It is therefore important that proposal 2 be implemented in dialogue with higher education institutions, as the proposal states. At the same time, the Left believes that the physical offer to students should be strengthened following the pandemic in a way that ensures a good learning environment. The proportion of such a physical offer used for teaching must continue to be up to the institutions themselves to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2521	I think everyone in this room will do the best for the students. I also think everyone in this room would rather see that the pandemic had never happened, with the consequences it's had. We all agree that it is important that students receive high-quality education, good professional follow-up, and that they have a good learning environment – both professional and social. This is what promotes good learning together. Universities and higher education institutions, under the law of higher education and higher education, are responsible for ensuring the quality of education, and I am sure that the institutions are following up their responsibility for the learning of students in a good way. It has been communicated from the ministry throughout the pandemic, after the pandemic and in the dialogue that the ministry has with the institutions on an ongoing basis. Unfortunately, during the pandemic, the measures against infectious diseases placed restrictions on the institutions’ premises for action in order to ensure good follow-up of students. There is no doubt that a high degree of digital education over time was difficult for both students and employees. But even though the pandemic has been demanding, it has also given new opportunities. Increased competence in digital tools and teaching also creates some exciting opportunities. We know that the institutions are committed to providing high-quality education. Now that the anti-infection measures no longer lead, the professional assessments of the form of education and method can again weigh more heavily. I am confident that each individual teacher and institution, in line with the Law on Higher Education, chooses the best way to promote the learning of students, whether digital or physical. That is why I think it is appropriate for institutions to have the greatest possible freedom to assess what is needed to remedy the consequences of the pandemic. At the same time, it is important to provide the institutions with a good framework for this work and, by January at the latest, additional resources were allocated to the institutions and their interactions. Although the pandemic for our part is largely over and Norway has opened up, we do not have a full overview of the long-term consequences of the pandemic. We just have to keep up with that in the future and over time. We will continue to follow the progress and implementation of students and engage in dialogue with universities, universities and students' own organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2536	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2541	The social and economic security of students is quite so crucial for their ability to really bet on their studies. If you have to work almost full-time next to full-time studies to pay the rent, lunch and electricity bill, there will be little time and energy back to the reading room. Now the studio support is priced by 2 pst. this year. As most people are aware, price growth is significantly higher than that. The Council of State has previously said that he has no plans to increase support for the study. Is there a plan he's going to review, now that reality has changed since he said what he did at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2548	I am in the lucky situation that I am running on the basis of the budget that the representative of the Oberstegård itself was in and adopted. It also provides the framework for both the level of study aid and how that study aid is to be assessed in line with the consumer price index. Over time, the purchasing power of the students has been equal to the CPI. However, as the representative points out, there may be challenges in situations like this year, where one might have and will have a very high increase in KPIs. That's what we might have to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2553	In its letter of reply, the Council of State writes: ‘It is clear that the pandemic has had negative consequences for many students, and representatives point to important challenges in the quality of education and follow-up of students.’ My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State engage in dialogue with higher education institutions to ensure that all students are offered access to participation in the physical learning environment on the same scale as before the pandemic, and at the same time consider further measures that support more quality in the sharing of professional content, new digital learning platforms and digitisation of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2569	I think it's been raised beyond any doubt that the pandemic has had huge consequences for almost all people in Norway, including us sitting in this room, and of course also for the students. To get rid of the question, it's not just that we have plans to engage in dialogue with universities and colleges, it's a dialogue we've had through the pandemic all along. Expectations have been and are as good teaching as possible, as high quality of teaching as possible. I feel that there is a lot of attention on how to organize good education and social environment, especially in the aftermath of the pandemic, where many have a lot to take back, and where it's important to come back to something that looks like a normal everyday life and a normal life. It has also helped both the government and the Stortinget to improve the organisation of additional appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2577	I'm very happy that the Council of State confirms it, because I think it was a little strange. The question I put to you is, in effect, correct from the point of view of the proposal we have made, proposal No. 2, that the Stortinget asks the government in dialogue with the higher education institutions to ensure that all students are offered participation in the physical learning environment, etc. That's exactly the same question I put to the Council of State, and then I think it's worth asking the Council of State: what does the Council of State think that the parties of government are voting against this proposal here in the Chamber, as the Council of State says that both the Council of State is doing and will continue to be doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2584	I think it's quite natural, because the Storting is a legislative assembly and provides the framework for the follow-up of the sector by law. Responsibility for the practical implementation of the objectives we have set lies with the institutions themselves, clearly clarified by the Law of Higher Education. It is clear that the Storting does not accept these kinds of requests, but only – at my discretion – to observe that this job is done. There is no disagreement between position and opposition. In that case, it's a reconstructed problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2589	I don't want to construct problems, I just refer to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The Council of State may agree that it is relatively softly formulated, for it states in the proposal of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left that ‘The Government asks the Government to assess measures to provide more quality education to obtain lost progress in the field of the pandemic’, and that it must do so in dialogue with the institutions, as it says. The question can be put to the Council of State so that he can insure the Stortinget: Will he consider measures to provide more quality education to obtain lost progress in the study of the pandemic — of course in dialogue with higher education institutions? Will he consider this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2596	This is what we're doing all the time, on behalf of the Stortinget, so not only has the proposal been evaluated, it's also confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2601	It is very nice that the Council of State assesses it, but it is a little strange then that the government parties at Stortinget are voting against this proposal. The proposal is, of course, not a requirement on the government of what action to take, but an assessment of the different measures to be taken. I am very pleased that, at least on my own initiative, the Council of State will consider the two proposals that lie there, even if his party and the other government party are voting against these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2606	Now you've constructed a disunity that doesn't exist. I don't know how much longer we're going to get with this right here, so there's not much more to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2611	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2618	In my previous post, I raised a concern from a number of student trustees in a number of universities, linked to the Left's proposal. I want to clarify whether the Left wants to impose education on students in the summer or whether you want to move the teaching, with the proposal that has been put forward here today. I am glad that the government with the Center Party and the Workers' Party see that the student's freedom has a crucial role to play in including students in the daily work. It's also the case that there's no student leave because we're just going to pass this in the hall. Student freedom has to be created by the students themselves, and the best thing we can do is to make things right. That's why I'm glad you were able to get 170 million. Dr who is involved in facilitating good student freedom around, and who also contributes to the good inclusion of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2625	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2643	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2650	In view of the fact that the case rapporteur is not here, I take on the task of saying a few words about the handling of the case. I would like to thank the Committee for a good reading and the proposers for promoting an important issue. Although we've now lifted our eyes on the future, the pandemic seems distant, and we've thrown the mouthbands, we're going to live with the consequences for a long time to come. Although I believe it is important that this matter be raised, the Labour Party disagrees with several of the solutions presented in the proposal that we are dealing with here today. It is important that the consequences of the pandemic are raised, that we discuss this, and that we follow the technical advice. But leaning on state override is not the Labour Party's policy. It is therefore good that the Minister of Knowledge has initiated two new research projects to provide us with valuable information on what has actually been the consequences of the pandemic. If we're going to make the right assessments and the right measures in the long term, then we have to have the right knowledge. We know that the pandemic has hit very differently in different places. In some municipalities, there has been a day of kindergarten and a day of school life that has been almost the same, a pandemic situation that has been free of infection, while elsewhere, for example here in Oslo, we know that there have been relatively severe responses over time. This also means that measures need to be adapted to the situation that has been out there. The right hand, the Advance Party and the Left will arrange for a survey of pupils’ reading and accounting skills before school starts and provide intensive reading and billing training to students who need it. The proposal involves a comprehensive new test regime that will require a lot of time and resources. The measures must be based on the confidence of the teachers out there, those who see the individual child and see what is needed. That means that if we allow ourselves in here to come up with fancy solutions away from the classrooms, I don't think it's for the child's best. For the Workers' Party, it is important to give teachers time, give them room and not new state orders, which are not in line with what you need now. The Parr Committee is clear that challenges are not addressed by short-term efforts or actions. There is a need to be targeted and long-term in the work to be done. The consequences of the pandemic require tailoring according to the individual student, not state override. I'm glad the government has granted two and a half billion more to the municipalities. Following up on additional appropriations, providing a stronger team around the student and making it clear that the leaders of the Parr report should be followed up, is exactly what schools need now – not new measures from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2667	We have two years of pandemic behind us. It is too early to conclude on all the consequences of the pandemic, but there are already clear indications that students have had less professional and social learning outcomes under the pandemic. The student survey presented on 10 February this year shows that two out of three students report that their everyday school life is adversely affected, and there are considerable variations. The government-appointed working group, led by Education Director Grethe Hovde Parr, presented its report last June, the School after the coronary apathy. The Parr report identifies the main challenges of the school from the pandemic and points to the need for action. I would like to highlight the main challenges that the Parr report points to, firstly, the lack of membership of all students in the professional and social learning community. Students experience more solitude and reduced mental health; there is a decline in students' motivation and mastery, and there is a worrying absence among students. The second main challenge is that some students and student groups are particularly hard hit by the pandemic, and there are indications of reasons for this. These are serious challenges that are well documented and require action. The Parr report points to a number of measures that can help ensure inclusion for all in good school and learning communities, identify and follow-up students with high professional and social learning losses, and compensate for lost learning and progress for all. I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal to ask the government to have dialogue with municipalities and county councils on measures to remedy the negative consequences of the pandemic for students in Norwegian school, and that the recommendations of the Parr report should be emphasised in this dialogue. However, I had hoped that the government and government parties had taken a stronger responsibility to follow up the Parr report with a targeted package of measures that could help the municipalities regain lost social and professional learning and dense knowledge gaps. Summer school is one of many measures that the Right promotes in this case. This is an action that primarily gives a different venue that can help to regain lost social learning, but also an arena that gives a different input to professional learning than what the students get at school. This is precisely why this is an action that can help, in particular, those students who have knowledge gaps due to the pandemic. Basic skills are important for students' mastering and learning joys in all disciplines. Even before the pandemic, a alarmingly high number of students had a critically low mastering level in reading and billing. School owners should have an obligation to monitor pupils’ reading and accounting skills and, secondly, an obligation to provide intensive training to prevent students from becoming increasingly dependent. The presence of teaching is a prerequisite for good learning. Therefore, school owners must provide a good follow-up to the school. We cannot sit and wait to see how lost learning and knowledge gaps have further consequences for students. I am therefore addressing the suggestions that are on the right in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2686	The representative, Tore Vamraak, then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2691	For almost two years, we lived with infectious disease control measures. They've unloaded us well through the pandemic, but they've also had a cost for the growing generation. Weeks of subjects over a screen and few collection points have been a burden for children and young people both professionally and socially. That's why it's important that we now get on the track and follow the students on the way out of the pandemic. But the solution to this is not the detailed management of teachers, schools, municipalities or county councils' organisation of training or new surveys from national teams, to which the Right and Left here put up. The pandemic has affected municipalities and individual lives differently, both because the situation in Osen, in Stjørdalen or here in Oslo has been quite different, and also because the students take things and situations in different ways. Therefore, the path out of the pandemic also requires different measures. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party are confident that the teachers, schools and municipalities will see the students in this work. We trust that those who stand next to their students every single day know what they need most, and that they take the measures they see they need. But then they need time, and they need action spaces to do just that. Our task in this work is to support them on the way. That's why it's very good, important and correct that the government now grants 2.5 billion. kr extra to the municipalities in this year's budget, and that we get 216 million divided. to those municipalities which have been most affected by infection, for precisely such measures. The Parr report was clear that this is exactly how we have to go forward. It underlines the need for different interventions at different sites and for different students. Most of the measures proposed by the working group were aimed at strengthening the work already done at school and are, to a large extent, measures that need to be agreed on and implemented locally. In the future, it will be important for us to maintain dialogue and follow the situation closely against the municipalities and county municipalities. We have also started work on bringing in an even better knowledge base on how to do this in the best possible way in practice. Because it's only with those who know the students the best that we can make sure that we take the students back to everyday life even stronger rusted than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2706	It's pretty obvious that the school carries the consequences of the pandemic still and probably will do it for a while. Just one quite heartwarming example of that is the wave of involuntary school absence, or school refusal, that the health nurses in school a few weeks ago warned of: children who don't get up, who horror, who may after a long time, with a very different school day, have lost some of their football in school. Through the pandemic, it has probably become clear to most people how important the school is in the lives of young people, and there is no shortage of warnings both in the run-up to the pandemic and now after. The Children's Ombudsman and the Student Organisation sent a letter to the government a few weeks ago, where they pointed to much of the same thing. They asked for an extraordinary upgrade of the team around the student, all the professionals working with the students at school besides the teachers. The Parr Committee, which delivered its report last year, has also made clear recommendations on actions that should be undertaken, including: again, strengthening the team around the student. It is precisely what the Children’s Ombudsman, the Student Organisation, the Parr Committee and others recommend as proper medicine – not to launch a general survey of reading and computing skills, as the right-hand side wants. And it testifies to me about a right-hand side that might lack some creativity, when the answer still, no matter what the question is, is more testing. Firstly, SV fully agrees with this, among other things. The Education Association says that such a national requirement is a distrust of the teachers, who from the outset assess the students' challenges and adapt the teaching of each classroom. Even more testing from above will take a lot of time and resources. SV will rather listen to the teachers, the student organisation, the Children’s Ombudsman, the Parr Committee and the School Managers’ Association who ask for and want to receive contributions to more time and resources at each school in each classroom, several competent employees, both several qualified teachers and more in the student’s team, in order to be able to better follow up the students who are struggling now. What is needed after important years of schooling have been marked by home schooling and less follow-up, is precisely closer follow-up both professionally and socially. But the time with pandemics has shown how critically low school staff is of both pedagogues and other disciplines, and sick leave has been too great. There has been a loss of supply in many places, and now many employees in schools and kindergartens are exhausted. This is why it is good that the entire committee is behind a proposal to ask the government to engage in dialogue with municipalities and to support other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2719	These two pandemics we want to bring into the future. The question is how we address the challenges and problems. Is there an eye for what is best for the long-term learning of children or the short-term performance of the politician so that they can show good measurement? Control and testing are undoubtedly suitable for car production, but human growth processes are fundamentally different from production processes, said brain researcher Per Brodal at the hearing on the Left and Right's proposals to close the so-called knowledge gaps after the pandemic, which we are debating today. The proposals are characterised by an outdated learning vision, where children are perceived as empty containers to be filled with knowledge, and where more knowledge is gained by increasing learning pressure, said Brodal. And as usual, right-hand medicine, no matter what the disease is, more testing, more measurements. This is a medicine we after 20 years, where the right has set the premise in school policy, know that doesn't work. Testing, monitoring and reporting became more widespread with the Knowledge Lift. Producing comparable data, often through testing, has been raised by politicians and school owners as important in promoting quality and learning in school. Right to have the results of national tests published. The results have been used to rank schools and municipalities, and every year you can read in the country's newspapers which schools do well, and who does it badly. In a number of places, tests have been made for thepresidency of school directors and politicians. Demands and expectations for ever better testing results put the whole education system under pressure, show a research survey by the Knowledge Centre for Education. Still testing stresses teachers and makes them choose a more teacher-driven form of teaching, inhibiting the use of games and student-driven activity – and stressing children. Young people’s data show an increase in mental health among young people and that they experience some overwhelming stress and stress related to school performance. As Brodal said, it's not like the more knowledge you push down the kids, and the earlier you do, the more they learn. It's basic pedagogics. That children experience mastering and are motivated is an elementary prerequisite for learning. It's knowledge of the students' professional development that means we have to get away from the one-sided and old-fashioned goals and performance management of the right-hand side of the school. Teachers now need to focus on the best way to learn the students in the long term, not on politicians’ performance projects. It is for the best for our children, for education is long-term and therefore warned Brodal against short-term thinking about filling up so-called knowledge gaps.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2733	When the Left is involved in addressing these issues, it is because there are serious findings and feedback from investigations that we need to take seriously. It's not a denial of all the good work that's been done in school during the pandemic. Many teachers have done a fantastic job of following up the students in an extremely demanding time, and I am impressed by how quickly you managed to change to a different everyday life and delivered on it. There are also many students who have achieved a lot of learning during the pandemic and have done it well. The challenge is that it does not apply to all students, because someone had a home school in uninhabited apartments that could provide them with professional support, and some students have lost their ties to the school environment and are struggling to get back to school. Our job is to see all the students, and especially the weakest students. That is why the Left is concerned that we need to provide enough resources and effort for these students now, so that they do not have long-term effects. We therefore propose to follow up the recommendations of the working group with measures to ensure inclusion for all in good school and learning communities, measures to identify and monitor pupils with high professional and social learning losses and measures to compensate for lost learning and progress for all. A measure that could have helped a lot to close down professional and social learning losses would have been a commitment to, for example: Summer school in 2022. It sounds a little bit, but for those that apply, it's important anyway. Summer school can compensate for some of the professional and social consequences that the pandemic has had for children and young people. The government of Solberg, in which we sat, put in 2021 out of 500 million. kr to start-ups and extensions of the summer school offer for primary school students. The entire 228 municipalities used the scheme, and there are already municipalities that are asking for a similar scheme for 2022. The major government has not provided any funds to continue the summer school scheme for 2022, nor has it been included in the crisis package from the government parties and SV since January 2022. Of course, it is too early to conclude about all the consequences of the pandemic, but already there are indications that students have had less learning outcomes under the pandemic. We have to be serious about that. The student survey shows that two out of three students report that their school days are negatively affected, and the Parr report ‘School after the coronary apathy’ identifies challenges that the pandemic has created in the school. According to them, the main challenge was the lack of membership of all students in the professional and social learning community. The selection identified the experience of more solitude, reduced mental health, a decline in students’ motivation and mastery and worrying absences among students. In conclusion, in addition to our main proposal to follow up the findings of the Parr report and on summer school, we also promote proposals to follow up on critical high absences, ensure good transitions between high school and high school, and ensure an additional boost for basic skills. This has been presented as the main act of the proposal, but the main act of our proposal is to think in the long term about the consequences of the pandemic and to strengthen the team around the students and the social learning community.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2750	The coronary apathy has been burdensome for many children and young people and can have negative consequences for their professional and social development. For this reason, the government has strengthened the free income of municipalities by 2.5 billion. SEK in 2022 compared to the proposals of the Solberg government. We've also distributed 216 million. This year we have launched several projects to follow the learning and development of the students in the cold water of the pandemic. Although there is a need for extra effort in the school in the future, I would warn against over-management of efforts by the Storting and the government, as the representatives put it. I believe that the community sector and the many highly educated school leaders and teachers working directly with children and young people have better knowledge of what action should be taken, and where, than national politicians do. As Minister of Knowledge, I am committed to giving those who work at school, trust, space for action and the prerequisites for carrying out the work they are trained to. I don't want to go on a line where we override school life from national teams. Although I understand and share the intentions of the representatives, there is a great risk that the measures proposed will not meet the actual needs. There is also a risk that the measures will interfere with the work already undertaken by schools to support students. I have a regular and good dialogue with the parties in the school and kindergarten sectors about how we can counteract the consequences of the pandemic. I understand that the sector wants a greater local space for action than the one proposed by the representative, and that the proposals do not correspond much to the feedback I have received. The knowledge we have points to the fact that the pandemic has turned out very differently, but that some groups have been particularly affected. The Parr report of 2021 underlines the need for different interventions at different sites and for different students. Most of the measures proposed by the Parr report were aimed at strengthening the work already done at school and are, to a large extent, measures that need to be agreed and implemented locally. The recommendations we have received from the Education Directorate also support the need for local authorities to take action to implement both short-term and long-term measures that are in line with the development of kindergartens and schools. Both the Education Directorate and the Parr report further point out that targeted interventions need to be put in place for students identified as vulnerable. Such measures need to be adapted by those who know the students, and I do not think it is appropriate for the government to impose or impose a strict framework on how this should be done locally. For two years, our employees in schools and kindergartens have shown a stamina and effort. Each of them has done more than we could expect as a society. Therefore, our thanks should not be to them as over-management and detailed management; it should be trust, respect and freedom to judge for themselves what is best to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2768	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2773	The Council of State, both by letter to the Committee and also here in the Chamber, has stated that the proposal for a representative provides for a remote control from the accumulation and government of efforts. There is nothing in the proposals that provides for remote control of efforts, but the right is committed to making demands on the municipalities as school owners to ensure that they address the challenges of the pandemic and that the state presents the necessary package of measures. My question is whether the Council of State sees that she has a responsibility to make the municipalities the best possible way to deal with challenges from the pandemic, and not least a responsibility to ensure that the children do not fall through in municipalities that have poor follow-up procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2780	It makes the council so absolute. This is some of the reasons why we – through close dialogue – put our ears to the earth in view of what is needed in the municipalities, from both the municipalities, the counties and the sector, and have chosen to strengthen municipalities and to finance and provide additional money for compensatory measures. What I am responding to with the proposal is that we should fill the follow-up with content from this room. When pointing to the obligation to follow up reading, for example, it is to say that there is an obligation that is not respected today. When you say that summer school is what it should be put on us, it's an overgovernment of the municipalities. They can fully organise summer school today. When it is proposed that the government should ask the county councils to offer introductory courses to students who have weak grades in high school, it is said that this is what is rewarding. I'm busy with the things we decide to do, must work. I believe that these proposals do not, as they are now available.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2785	It's important to know what works, and the way you see results is through testing. That's what shows how the level of knowledge is. It was expressed by several representatives that testing was seen as a distrust of the teachers. At the same time, the Parr report points out that many students have lost professional and social learning and knowledge gaps through the pandemic. So my question is whether the Council of State is certain that all students who have experienced loss of learning and have received knowledge holes according to the Parr report will have sufficient follow-up without taking care to acquire this knowledge of how things stand at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2790	First of all, I think it's an incredibly clever input into what makes us have information about our students, saying that testing is the only gratifying thing. That's not right. Firstly, we are engaged in research into these things, we are following the course of development. We already have a lot of things we're testing in Norwegian school, which we're following in the light of the pandemic. We also have dialogue with the sector and listen to what their needs are. We have four projects going on. One follows the initial training, the other follows the impact on the youth, the third follows how this has turned out especially for the vulnerable students, and the fourth, as I think it is very relevant for the Storting to discuss when we get more findings from it, is what has worked out of the measures already taken. And I repeat that I think it would be wrong for us to take action now that we are not sure that will work. I am concerned that we set a framework that allows school and kindergarten employees to do the best possible job, show them confidence and assess what individual children need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2797	In March, the Children’s Ombudsman, the Student Organization and the School Manager’s Association sent a letter to the government asking that the student’s team be strengthened. The Children's Ombudsman said it well, so I'll quote her: ‘Now it is the government’s turn to set up for children and young people. They must now strengthen the team around the students and ensure that they get the follow-up and help they need in and around the school. The government cannot enter this new phase after the pandemic with a waiting-and-see attitude, even though much is back to normal.» Does the Council of State agree with this heartache of the Children’s Ombudsman? And, perhaps even more specifically, the Council of State agrees that the government should also help the municipalities that will bet on the team around the student, for example. in relation to the proposal which the Committee is now unanimously promoting, to ask the government to have dialogue with the municipalities to focus on the Parr Committee's proposals for action?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2807	I am pleased with that consensus within the committee and will of course follow it up. There's a lot of dilemmas about how much we should address this in detail. And I'm going to be completely honest with you that I think that many of us, both at large and in government, often judge how firm things should be, for example. in terms of what we have standards for and do not have. My goal is to get a rig around the individual child and the individual student, with all the different professionals who are going to work to make child life the best possible, whether it's in school, in leisure time or overall, which makes it useful for both the individual family and especially the individual child. I agree with the observations from the Children's Ombudsman and believe it is very important to address them. But exactly what solutions we're going to land on, I look forward to discussing with the Storting further. I am not ready to conclude now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2812	I thank you for your answer, and that is a good answer. It is important to find the right balance in how national authorities can help all those who are out of each classroom to get both the time and the opportunity to do the job they know how to do. What I'm experiencing is the call from the Children's Ombudsman, the Student Organisation, the School Manager's Association and others, and which is also addressed in the Parr Committee's report, may well be the national frameworks for helping municipalities to mannify some services according to the local needs they see themselves, especially in the student's team, as it is called, but also, to a large extent, in the form of qualified teachers, so that teachers can see, help and adapt their teaching to each student. So my final question to the Council of State is whether she agrees that this is also the government's responsibility to contribute to, even if there is a municipal responsibility in the last instance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2817	The Council of State agrees that it is our responsibility to facilitate this. There is some reason why we have both strengthened the municipal budgets and the county budgets and given this additional allocation to follow-up in the cooling water of the pandemic. But sometimes it is also an important contribution to resisting the desire of national authorities to govern detail. Sometimes it is important to say that we have confidence that the professionals out there make good judgements, that they have the best interests of each child in mind, that they are sure that if we contribute well, child protection services, PPTs, schools, kindergartens and other professionals will be able to find together for the best of each child. Then it's all about being on the lookout for the balance that makes us succeed in this together. One of the most important frameworks we come with from Stortinget is the money. And then it's really the formalities and the creative solutions out there that together make the individual child get the follow-up she or he needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2822	As previous speakers I am also concerned about the team around the student, and the pedagogical-psychological service, also known as the PPT, has been pressured over the previous two years, in line with kindergarten and school. But the PP service was in a challenging situation before the pandemic. The PP service has far more tasks than the dimensioned service. At present, government requirements for competence and staffing are almost absent from the PPT, and the weak regulation of the law leads to considerable variation in services between municipalities. For example, in 2019 at Trondheim there were 714 children per post position in the PPT, while there were 428 in Levanger. It can't be that it depends on where you live, how quickly the children get the help they need. Getting in early with support is important, and strengthening support systems is about balancing and combating Difference Norway. So my question is, what will the Council of State do to increase the staffing of the PP service now, and will the Council of State in the long term be in favour of a staffing standard in the PPT?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2831	There was a question in today's sign, I kept saying, for earlier today I was at a conference, together with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, under the direction of the Education Directorate and Bufdir. There they really discussed the exact same thing: how to get these services to work better together, and how to also find each other and match each other in a world where something is regulated by norms, and other things are not. I think once again that having confidence that services can work well together is important. I think we can do more to make sure that they find each other, that one hand knows what the other person is doing, and that we can help them work better together. I don't think the answer is always standards and detailed regulation, but we'll have to discuss it further and see. There are now major changes in the field of child protection, with child protection reform, and there is also considerable quality development work in the PPT field. So what the future brings here is too soon to predict.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2841	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2848	I want to start by saying that I think we all in this Chamber agree on something that has been mentioned in the debate, namely the enormous effort of teachers and school through the pandemic. They've been driving change management for some time, and they've done that in a very good way – and then we're going to let it lie to you. So I want to say that the debate has had some interesting articles, which draw a picture of the right-hand side policy that I don't know about. I'll be able to remind you that it's the right-hand side policy that has led to more high school completion and higher education, and that students are more present at school. And why is that important to us? Well, because society needs everyone we can get through high school, into a working life and into further studies. It has been said that the school bears the consequences of the pandemic. Yeah, you could say, but it's the individual student who carries the consequences of the pandemic, and that's what the student will do over time. That's why it's important to stress that what's being drawn as a test regimen, for us in the Right is a survey of each student, because we know that we need to have knowledge of the school, we need to have knowledge of the school. If we're to give each student knowledge at their level and be able to lift each one, we need to have knowledge. That's why every school that succeeds in raising an individual student says that they're monitoring, and that screening is essential. And why are we busy registering absences? Well, there's an incredible difference between schools in Norway – in schools in municipalities and between classes. There are major differences in the follow-up of absenteeism. We don't have a national absence register, and never before has it been more important to make sure that students are present at school, because never before have so many students had so much absence and missed a lot of important learning. And why do we say that summer school is important? Well, because social is important. A lot of people have missed a lot of social in the run-up to the pandemic, and we have experience and feel that it is a good idea to offer summer school as an inclusive social hit in a safe environment. Why don't we use our cultural schools, for example. as an actor into it? So what from the left-hand side is presented as the right-hand test regime in school, is our way of giving different kids equal opportunities, by meeting them at their level, where they deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2863	Testing stresses the teachers, said the representative Nyholt. My impression after hearing the representatives from the Red Party, SV and the Workers' Party, as well as the Council of State, is that testing stresses the left-wing politicians. They indicate that it is good to provide quality in the production of cars, but it is less important for the left-hand side to ensure quality in the education of our children. The right is concerned that our children are getting the best education possible, and good school ownership requires the authorities to know how the students are learning. The aversion to knowledge of the left-hand side weakens the ability to implement the right actions. This is precisely what we are dealing with today. The pandemic has led to the loss of professional and social learning, and then it is not enough to conduct overall macro-research on the effects. Teachers need – in individual classrooms – tools to implement the measures needed for individual students, and the right wants to provide teachers with these tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2870	Different measures are raised that are relatively concrete to this room, and then the Parr report leans on. But the Parr report does not bring out summer school, and the Parr report also does not say that we should introduce new national tests. The Parr report points to school leaders and school owners, and of course we must support them in that work. Because we know that there are many children carrying the consequences of the pandemic, and we're going to be there, and we're going to support them, and we're going to support the students. What we're not going to do is cast your arm if someone broke your foot -- and we don't know that from here, from this room, but it's the teachers out there in the individual classroom who know. We know that «one size doesn't fit all» in this case, and that's exactly why we cannot accept detailed orders from here that do not correspond to the needs in the classrooms. It's not right that we don't test. We have comprehensive surveying tools in our school. What we're now discussing here is whether to introduce new screening tools as a result of the pandemic. I don't think that's right. What the school needs now is time, resources and the ability to see the individual child and student, not new mandatory measures from here that do not fit the individual. The Parr report referred to summer school, although it was not necessarily recommended, and I would like to quote the report. It states that ‘the least-used measure is summer school, which almost no one reports on its use’. This may be related to the fact that the letter of assignment from the Ministry of Knowledge, then led by the Right-wing Government, came on 26 June and the grant was paid on 3 July. Schools were already in the process of summer vacation when the grant was paid. Summer school may be nice, some places, and there is nothing wrong with the municipalities choosing to use the extra subsidies that they are now receiving from this government for it, but to decide from here that all municipalities will do so, I believe it is wrong. Liberality and that trust we must have in the municipalities, so that they just choose the measures that best fit out there. Then we're going to make sure that the municipalities are closely followed up in that work, and make sure that you have the resources to just be out there in the municipalities, close to the team, close to the students, but do it wisely that also shows trust in the professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2884	The representative, Jønes, said that every school that succeeds in raising an individual student does so because they're monitoring. What I'm absolutely convinced of is that there's hardly any of the schools that think they're mapping or lifting because the Storting asked them to. I think the reason why you succeed in each class room is because you know enough about that student to know what the student needs. I think it's a little sad for the whole of this discussion – for which we agree on the starting point, namely that we have a goal to do the school day after the pandemic, and, moreover, as far as possible for the individual student – that there are claims that we have some kind of knowledge aversion because we don't spontaneously, shortly before the summer vacation, introduce more tests and measurements for Norwegian school. I want us to test and know a lot about Norwegian students, but we need to use the knowledge we get through the mappings and that testing, for the benefit of the students. Testing more doesn't make anyone learn any more. To test more, or to map more, you have to do it because it's something you don't know, and not all of the adult representatives know how to deal with the individual student is natural, but it's not like the teacher in the individual classroom doesn't know what the situation is in the individual classroom. The representative Vamraak started by referring from the Parr report and three findings that were crucial for the need for action. The three findings were that there were several students who stated that they were more lonely, that there was absence of belonging in professional and social communities, and that there was a worryingly high absence among many students. All three things are about social parts of going to school. Nothing of it is about the state level of reading, more summer school, the sealing of so-called knowledge holes, or that we need to have other orders, for example. for testing and mapping purposes, than those we already have. I agree with the description of the challenges, but I mean the medicine that these suggestions write out is crazy, just because it breaks with something completely basic, namely the students' need to thrive, belong to and be susceptible to learning. I think it must be much better to say that we trust the individual teacher in the individual classroom. The size and the government's job is not to stand in the way of good pedagogical work done out there. On the contrary, our job is to support it. I also listened with interest to the consultation committee with professionals on these proposals, and I perceive that the professionals too are very much in agreement with the government's position on this. I am pleased with the debate, but I hope we can agree that if the challenge is that our students do not experience social inclusion, the measures need to be put in place around it – and do not print out the wrong medicine for a diagnosis we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2899	I can start by securing the representative Vamraak that I am not very stressed. I'm a representative from the left, but it's not my stress that's the theme here. There may be, among other things: is that I no longer work as a pedagogue in kindergarten. But I obviously have to repeat myself, because it's not like the left-hand side has been sitting on research results. I referred to the research survey conducted by the Knowledge Centre for Education, which shows that the teachers are stressed by the eternal chase, by the test regime, and it is Young Data that indicates that children and young people report stress related to school everyday life. The right-hand side has a kind of need to paint an image that only the right-hand side is concerned with knowledge. This is not true. We're also on the left-hand side concerned with knowledge, and we're also concerned that everyone should have the opportunity to learn. That's why you want more practical subjects in the past, etc. We are concerned that the students must be strengthened so that they can feel security and susceptibility, as Brodal, in his response to the hearing, was – repeatingly – needed to learn. And if you're going to spend time monitoring and testing kids -- yeah, it takes the pedagogue out of either the kindergarten group or the classroom. As a teacher, I've tested a lot of children. Every time I've done it, I've done it because we need to get knowledge about concrete things. Sometimes it's been about motor skills, sometimes it's about language understanding or other social skills. This is done in the country's kindergartens and schools when pedagogues and the others around the children see the need for screening and testing. It makes sense to monitor and test the times when we wonder if the children are where they should be – which is something we can also discuss – but to have a regime that says that everyone should, and that one should have it as a basis for teaching or pedagogical instruction, is something quite different. We, who are concerned with knowledge and learning, have listened to the researchers, we have listened to the teachers through their trade unions and to the Student Organisation, who say that this is not part of and promotes good learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2910	It is fascinating that right-wing representatives believe that not wanting new national tests or surveys is a contempt for knowledge. It shows that we have a different sense of reality. Because where is Right Trust in Teacher Prophecy, Trust in the Employees, who see the students every day and actually see what they need? It's not like we have to put a survey in a single school to keep track of how the students are doing. We have confidence that the teachers do it every day – every day when they say hello to the students who come to school, every single day when they give the students a math task and see that they couldn't do it this time, every single day when it happens that in a gym class, not a student dared to give everything today. It's mapping. That's what our teachers do every day, and we have to be confident that our teachers will equip them well enough to do in a good way, regardless of whether we're after a pandemic or not. So, of course, we're going to give them time and space of action to do the work that is needed, but a new mapping, where we from Oslo have definitely contained, is not exactly that. Now the teachers have to have time to do what they need. There are many people who have said that from the pulpit recently, so I'm not going to spend any more time on it. New reading samples are proposed and new math mappings do not help the student who is now struggling to get back to the classroom because it has spent the hours in a toilet. Then they have to get more social follow-up, and we have to trust that in every school they have the opportunity to see and have the opportunity to do. And then they need space, no more testing and monitoring and imposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2917	Tore Vamraak has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2922	The right has confidence in the teachers. Teachers are the ones who are supposed to provide both professional and social learning for their children. So the Parr report has pointed to the loss of both professional and social learning, and then we need action in both categories. It is also in the proposals that the Right is behind. There are eight proposals, including: three proposals on the follow-up to absenteeism, which are very important for social learning. It's a proposal for summer school. As I pointed out in my first post, summer school is an important measure of social learning because it is a completely different learning environment. It is a measure used in 228 municipalities. There are few municipalities, as the representative Waagen pointed out, or you can point out that this is a well-used measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2929	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2946	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2953	Let me first thank the Committee for a good and tidy work on the representative proposal from Melby, Rotevatn, Almeland and Bjørlo on conversion and incentives for travel and catering, cultural and outdoor activities following the coronary apathy. The industries mentioned in the proposal for a representative have obviously faced major challenges through the pandemic as a result of strict measures to protect the disease, measures which have periodically led to the closure and permitting of the workforce and to the total or partial disappearance of the customer base and revenues. The compensation schemes established early in the pandemic have aimed to ensure that other viable enterprises are able to get through the pandemic and that employees are properly cared for. Of course, it cannot fully compensate for the loss of customers and income, but it has helped most people to recover through two years of pandemic. As the proposers point out, the same industries also face significant challenges now that society is reopened. It takes time for customers to come back, and more people find it difficult to recruit qualified workers. Therefore, it is also positive that a Joint Committee agrees that residues from the Municipal Compensation Scheme should be prioritised for industries that have faced specific challenges related to the post-federal effects of the pandemic. There is variable support for the various proposals that have been put forward in the matter, and I expect the individual parties to explain their views. The right supports the Left’s proposal asking the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for measures to recruit skilled workers to the sectors particularly severely affected by disease protection measures under the pandemic. We are also concerned that the measures promoted by the Government of Solberg in the National Travel Strategy 2030 are being implemented and followed up with the necessary efforts, and we will follow it up in the budgetary work ahead. In our opinion, the package of measures is already in the strategy, and we expect the government to follow it up. The pandemic has given the possibility to defer the payment of taxes and charges. It is a mechanism that has been important to ensure the liquidity of many enterprises in a demanding time. We expect the government to follow the situation closely now when the scheme is due to be terminated, in particular in relation to the conditions of amortisation. With regard to the issue raised in the proposal for a representative on VAT rates, it is natural to come back to it by a comprehensive review of the VAT system, as the comments of an overall committee also state. I'm addressing the proposal right here is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2976	The representative of Helge Orten has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2981	We've been through a rough thank-you with the pandemic in the last two years. It has been difficult for individuals, for children and young people, and has not been lost there have been tough periods for some industries and the cultural sector. The current government and the former government have set up crisis packages in both 2020, 2021 and 2022 with the aim of securing jobs and preventing unemployment from falling at a high level. Now, fortunately, the situation begins to normalize again, and business generally goes well. Nevertheless, we need to understand that both the cultural sector and some industries are still struggling with the pandemic aftermath. Unfortunately, it can take some time before this normalizes again. The working party throughout the pandemic has been very concerned with supporting culture and business and has put us behind the compensation schemes to prevent viable businesses and businesses from going bankrupt under the pandemic, and to ensure that as quickly as possible they return to work, and that the economy reacts relatively quickly. The crisis has been shattered, and there has been strong intervention against some industries. Economic crisis packages cannot be long-term. They must be temporary and not last longer than is strictly necessary, precisely in order to avoid negative consequences for the ability to adapt to the enterprises and the mobility of the labour market. With regard to the temporary suspension of taxes and duties, it must be phased out once the economy is back to its normal level. We must not contribute to a further postponement of companies and businesses in a situation where they incur additional indebtedness. It is still possible for companies to seek deferral — not as a crisis package, but according to the ordinary rules. It is important to ensure that the measures we still have are taken correctly, and the Labour Party therefore supports the majority of the Committee's proposals for a decision to target the municipal compensation scheme against the industries with specific challenges related to the aftermath of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e2996	The center party believes it has been right and important that the state has been willing to use its economic muscles to get the wheels started after the coronary apex. It has been absolutely necessary to ensure jobs, and to ensure the safety of jobs and income for people and businesses affected by the coronary apathy and the anti-infection measures that have been imposed. That is also why the Central Party took a key role in the negotiations on the Stortinget in March 2020, when the majority of the population achieved through broad cooperation a rapid treatment of a powerful crisis package just after the first closure, and also in the subsequent corona packages in 2020, 2021 and 2022. These support packages were absolutely necessary to remedy the adverse effects on those establishments that were particularly vulnerable and had lost all or part of the customer base following the infection protection measures. They were also absolutely essential for all the people who were on leave, the unemployed and the self-employed who were hit hard. The starting point has been that these compensation schemes should be temporary. They should last as long as the infectious diseases measures required. However, since these types of schemes may have a negative impact on business conversion and labour market mobility, it is important that they do not go beyond what is necessary. The restrictions imposed by the authorities on the protection of infection were lifted shortly after this proposal for a representative was promoted, and we are now seeing a strong rise in the Norwegian economy. We share the concerns of the proposers about the post-mortem effects of the pandemic, and for some of these industries to face challenges on the way out. Although Norwegian industry is on average good and many industries have taken up, there are still some sectors and areas where they do not feel like going back to normal — and some may never come back to normal before the pandemic. The pandemic has probably brought about more permanent changes in people's habits, and it will require a shift for the individual actors in these industries. However, like the rapporteur, we do not see the appropriateness of establishing a separate package of measures for the tourism industry. We believe that the follow-up to the national travel strategy is already well under way, and funds have been allocated for several actions. Correspondingly, with regard to the temporary suspension of taxes and taxes, we believe it is right that this phase should be phased out when the economy is back to a normal level. It is important to avoid the deferred payment of taxes and duties contributing to the further build-up of debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3011	Fortunately, the coronary apathy with anti-infection measures is over, and various nutritional actors can return to a normal situation. So we know that for some people it takes a long time, an extra long time, to retrieve both customers and turnover, but it's probably primarily so that there are new challenges that are now facing businesses and businesses in Norway. Supply problems, a massive increase in the price of inputs and, above all, high fuel prices and high prices of energy pose some serious challenges for the industries being addressed. Then we need other measures now than those implemented under the pandemic, and also the measures we had going over in what we thought would be a more normal situation for the whole community. Then it is good that a majority is now being set up to use the municipal compensation scheme even more accurately, so that the companies, the small enterprises that need a little extra stimulus in the phase in which they are involved, were hit by the municipal compensation scheme when we negotiated the re-saltation of the budget for 2020, and it has proved to be both effective and important for the small enterprises that have fallen outside other schemes. So that's good. On the other hand, it is not so good that it is not possible to establish a majority to look at the distortion of competition that the pandemic has revealed, by having different rates of VAT on food, depending on whether they are served in close proximity to ‘in-house’ or ‘out-house’, i.e. served at a restaurant, or takeaway. The Progress Party supports the need to look at this discrimination, and that is why we are in favour of the proposal presented here as a minority proposal. I had hoped that it was possible to establish a majority, because what the minority is asking for is, in reality, that the government should look at this discrimination, different rates of taxation, and come back with a proposal to the Stortinge which ensures non-discrimination. I am addressing the minority proposal on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3022	The representative Hans Andreas Limi then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3027	The industries that the Left's proposal today is about, travel life and the food, cultural and outdoor industries, are among those that are most strongly under the control of pandemic and state infectious measures in the last two years. Travel and catering, cultural and outdoor activities account for hundreds of thousands of jobs, for people of all kinds, in small and medium-sized enterprises in every crick and hook across the country. Many companies will need time to return to normal operations — because of the weakness of the economy and the loss of equity, yes, but equally because tens of thousands of people with skills, vocational training and standing-by-will have escaped the industry through the pandemic. Talking to people in these industries, most people tell the same story about how they felt the pandemic. It is a story of despair over always being the bottlenecks that pointed out when the regimes were going to introduce corona measures, and that the basis for the measures against infection was to a lesser or lesser extent relative to the impact on jobs and businesses. During the Korona period, people in these industries were more and more obliterated by ever-changing rules that required enormous amount of work to understand and adapt to, by the insecurity around whether there were support measures, and by the increasing problems of getting access to people. And they were, not least, frightened by a new government and a new, red plural that was so busy preventing a few big businesses from falling short that they couldn't see the everyday life of a small business in the food industry, or the economic dynamics of a seasonal travel company. Survivors were a good example; trust was replaced by distrust; care for the many small ones was replaced by red-green hunts on the few large ones. So now these industries are going back in a weekday where politicians with open eyes have decided that there should be a higher VAT on food and drink served inside a room, where a person is making fun of others than if you were taking the food home with him alone. There is a VAT system for all parties in this room have been involved in designing, and for which we must all share responsibility. But this is in the long run perceived as bloodyly unfair and unintelligible in the food and leisure industry, among all those who every day put their honor in making good meeting places so that you would be welcome as guests. That's why the Left will take the serving slice in another hand. We need a powerful force to secure travel, food, outdoor and cultural life for some time to come, wherever it is needed, and in particular, recruitment and long-term competence building will be a critical point. I am pleased to be supported by the Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party to the Left's proposal to ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for how today's discrimination in the VAT system, between food served at a serving place, and what is being taken out of the restaurant, can be replaced with equal treatment – with a view to lower VAT at the serving place. But I find that even such a carefully formulated proposal for simplification is rejected by an alliance of the red-green plural and the conservative party of the Right. That's not how we can keep it in length. The left will have lower restaurant moms, and it's a matter we'll fight on to win. I would also like, finally, to address the last proposal, which is not now tabled, Amendment No. 3, from the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3042	The representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3047	One of the first visits I had as a government council in this year of work was at the travel industry in Trysil, and I met a business that had experienced tough rounds, and many small outings that were very concerned about their everyday lives. One of the things that they most promised to have been successful was the municipal compensation scheme, especially for the small actors. They felt that it had given a little breathing space. I have met and had contact with several of them even now in the last month and heard what the situation is, what the main concern is in the serving industry in Trysil now. Now it was getting hold of people. When I was there in January, the main concern was to be able to serve, operate normal activity, give and make sure that people could have fun, and now there were problems getting hold of cooks and others who could do the job. It says something about the situation we're in. We've been through several major crises, but out of that crisis we have huge economic growth, and one of the main concerns – which is really an incredibly good thing to worry about – is that it's very low unemployment. It is a great advantage that unemployment is low, and that professional participation is rising, but the main concern for many of those who do business, and also many others, is to be able to get people to work. This is noted both in the municipal sector and not least in the food industry. With regard to this proposal here, the proposal itself was put forward in February. We have been very engaged in this industry over time, but the debate now versus when the proposal was promoted is quite different. I would also like to make a few comments on this with VAT. I sat on the Stortinget when we dealt with the crisis packages in March 2020, and then it was precisely the Center Party, the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party that made sure, among other things. The left had to put down the travel mom. It was the Left and Right that actively, together with the Advance Party, increased travel up to 12 pst. when they had power and responsibility. It's important to remember in the extension of it. Now, if we're going to talk about the heavy time travel and food industries have been through, I think it has been quite right of the Storting and both the previous and not least the current government to set up for this industry, but the debate is hopefully now such that the time to discuss compensation schemes and new conversion arrangements of that kind for travel life is over, and that they should be able to operate with giving, operating with activity and earning money in a proper, regular way. I feel that this debate and the proposal for a representative are somewhat marked by January/February, and that the challenges are quite different today from what we experienced just three months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3063	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3068	I agree with the Minister of Finance that the situation – fortunately – is another now than he was two to three months ago. I also think some of us are saying that the reality is that it takes time for part of these industries to come back in the normal crowd, among other things. because so much competence has disappeared from the industry and because the need for migration is a large number of places. I would like to ask a question about a system that I think we are all a few if has been important and accurate – the municipal compensation scheme. It is also highlighted in the option from the multiples in the Committee, which will also be joined by the Left. But can the Minister of Finance answer whether the government and the Minister of Finance are now looking at money that has been pledged by the Stortinget to the municipalities and the municipal compensation scheme, which the government at present has not passed on to the municipalities? If the answer is yes, what is the plan for getting the funds in circulation and out to these industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3075	What we noticed in the context of the broad, large compensation schemes was that especially many of the smaller companies faced challenges in using them. There were also many different names on them, for example. ‘valve system’ — they were called very different — but then became ‘the municipal compensation system’. It has helped especially some of the smaller businesses, and you could also use local discretion to get funds out. There was also some criticism, because some municipalities had other ways of distributing them than neighbouring municipalities. But in sum, there was a successful arrangement. It's true, as the representative Bjørlo said, that the entire budget that the Stortinget decided not to pay, but we had a similar situation last year, when the Left put in government. They had also not paid out the entire appropriation. Then there came a new Korona round, unfortunately, with omicron in December, and they paid it out. A new assessment was made. So it's nothing new that you don't pay everything. It's also true that one paid 250 million. kr in a payment in February.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3084	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I agree with the preparation of the benefit of the municipal compensation scheme. Another advantage of that arrangement was that it gave much freedom. It could be used for both emergency aid and the financing of necessary conversion and development measures for small enterprises around the municipalities, with local adaptation. That need is, as I know the industry, a lot of places yet. I notice that there is money left in the scheme, but is it so to understand in the council that the money will be there until there might be a new round of corona that leads to new closures, or is it time to get these funds out to the municipalities now, to help these industries get started and implement necessary conversion measures, for example to work with recruitment, for which we know there is a screaming need, especially in the food industry and in the travel industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3091	What has been important to the government all along is to have a high level of preparedness and to start action quickly. Last fall, when we had to close down for emergency reasons and not know how harmful the public health omicron variant was, it was about to do so quickly. The experience from the last few years' budgets has shown that one has often used a little less than what you thought you were supposed to when you were granted. In the case of the 250 million. kr, we'll get back to that. An experienced situation in the travel industry in general, but the problem when things happen in general, is always that there are some people who don't have it like that. We know, for example. that in bus and coach transport and in others with the extra demanding, the main challenge is not now a lack of activity – there is a shortage of labour. It's a completely different situation than when we decided this. That's why we have to think carefully about how we, for example. can get more people to go to the kitchen, the restaurant industry, the food industry and the type of subject we have had discussions about here in Stortinget, because there is a alarming need for more qualified workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3098	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3105	I'm not going to pull out this debate any longer than I have to. I just need to clarify a little how we relate to the proposal on VAT. I don't see it as a proposal that is a crisis response. I see it as a proposal and a wish for a permanent change in the value added tax scheme. We believe, in principle, that this should be done when we have a comprehensive review of the VAT system, so that we can see things in the context. It's no more complicated than that. An overall committee has expressed the same opinion in an annotation form. It's also a good signal that we're taking the issue seriously, and that we're willing to assess it, but that we're going to do it in an overall context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3110	I would like to clarify the same thing as the Progress Party representative, Mr Limi, was in his post, that this submitted on VAT and non-discrimination of the same product, whether it is consumed in the city or drawn away from the city, is not a proposal to change that practice overnight with a fingerstroke in the Stortinget. It is a suggestion to ask the government to come up with a case in order to have a professionally good and well-dedicated basis for doing something about this. One might say that one wants a total case of the whole VAT system, but from the left we think that this thing is special, because we're talking about different VAT on the same thing, depending on whether a consumer consumes it in a restaurant, or whether a person moves two meters out and serves it in another place, without the strict drawing being logical and good reasons for it. So this is a matter we think it might be worth looking at, but we ask the government to figure it out and come back to models for how this can be done. There will be no voting on the matter today, but there are many days to consider this and think about, so maybe we can get a new round on it until voting on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3115	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3132	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3139	I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and am pleased that a joint committee has established that the Norwegian model of well-organised working life has been a good thing for the Norwegian community and for the Norwegian economy. The Committee is also unanimous in the comment where we say: ‘The Committee would stress that a central principle in Norwegian working life is that wage settlements are the responsibility of the parties. Historically, the parties have carried out wage settlements that have ensured increased purchasing power for employees, while the companies have maintained and strengthened their competitiveness.’ It is important that the Storting is clear on this and that this principle is clearly established. Wages and salaries are and shall be the responsibility of the parties. We are lucky in Norway, which has responsible parties both on the employee and on the employer's side. We've seen that this year too. Three weeks ago, the so-called ‘frontline’ was agreed by the Joint Alliance and the Norwegian Industry. The Norwegian model worked. It ensures increased purchasing power for workers with a supplement of 3,7 p.m., while also maintaining their competitiveness for employers. We should thank and congratulate the parties for their work, without the Storting getting involved. Because that's what's weird about the proposal we're dealing with right now. So today, the Progress Party is proposing to break with what has served Norway well. With the policy of the Progress Party, two parties no longer have to deal with wage settlement. Now there are three: the employee organisations, the employers and the Stortinget. It is good that all other parties realize that this is going to be wrong. It is sad that the Progress Party does not understand it and will change the rules of the labour market so fundamentally. Each year, the Stortinget adopts the level of taxes and taxes. Of course, the changes we're making have a bearing on the economy of people in our country, whether they're working or not. When the majority of the population increases the trade union deduction, it means tax relief for organised workers and is a signal from the bulk of the population that an organised working life with strong trade unions and serious employers is desirable. When we cut both the electricity tax and the fuel tax in the budget process last year, it was to ease the tax burden. And when we increase the taxes for those with high incomes and large wealth, while those with incomes of 750,000 and less receive less tax, it contributes to smaller differences and increased purchasing power for those with lower and medium income. It is in dealing with the budgets and in fixing taxes and taxes that we in this House can express and vote for and oppose proposals that we believe are right to give priority. In recent years, government and expansion have shown the necessary action to take decisions in relation to the pandemic and in response to high electricity prices, where the power support system has quickly come into place to ensure predictability for consumers and people. It's been right and important, just as it's right and important that the Storting doesn't go in and become a party to the payroll settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3155	In a situation where we see that prices of important goods are increasing and the Bank of Norway is alerting interest rate increases, it is important how much each has left in the wallet to serve current expenditure. People should be able to live on their own income and manage price fluctuations. During eight years with the government of Solberg, the total tax burden was reduced by nearly 38 billion. kr. An average family reduced the tax by between NOK 14 000 and NOK 16 000, which gave more better advice and increased purchasing power. In addition, targeted measures were put in place to raise those who were at least in the past, such as: free core time in kindergarten for the low-income families. The proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative are those which naturally belong to the current work on the budgets. In particular, it is important to see tax changes in a whole where it is possible to assess how this will affect the economy as a whole and what effects it can be expected to have on the financing of the expenditure on the State budget. Power prices have been exceptionally high in South Norway in the last six months. Therefore, it was absolutely necessary to put in place a compensation scheme to ensure that the exceptional income accruing to the country and municipality through the power companies benefits the electricity customers. This was dealt with in Stortinget just before Easter, and we see no need to address this to a new treatment now, the first week after Easter. In summary, the right is concerned that individuals and families should be able to live on their own income and that the overall tax burden is at a reasonable level. This is best done through current budgetary work and not as a proposal for a representative that violates the principle that wage settlements take place between the social partners, which have ensured the purchasing power of workers and the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises and jobs over a long period of time. The right is behind this principle and, of course, is also behind the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3168	The centre party shares the concerns of the proposers for the developments we see in Norway and the world, where, at the end of the coronary apnea, and with Russia's attack on Ukraine, we experience a significant price rise in many consumer goods. I see the representative proposal as an attempt to improve people's daily lives, and there is something government parties are also very concerned about. We therefore announced on the Hurdal platform that we would reduce taxes that affect people most, such as electricity taxes and fuel taxes. This was followed up in the addition of the State budget for 2022, where we reduced both the electricity tax and the fuel taxes compared to the Solberg government's proposal. Households have also received electricity support, which has now been adopted on March 2023. In the context of the ordinary budgetary procedures, the revised national budget and the State budget for 2023, we will assess new adjustments and changes in the framework of the economy. The government's aim is for Norwegian families with normal and medium incomes to experience that purchasing power increases over time and does not decrease. The proposers propose tax reliefs which make fuel, food and electricity cheaper. Of course, these tax reliefs have a price and will have to be financed by budget cuts or increased use of oil money. As the proposers are of course familiar with, not only is the size of the state’s revenues the framework for the amount of money to be injected into the economy. With the high pressure we are experiencing in the Norwegian economy now, increased use of oil money, a more expansive fiscal policy could lead to a stronger rate of interest increase than has already been suggested by the Bank of Norway. For most households, an interest rate increase will be more inclusive and will mean a much higher total cost than the savings that the proposed tax relief will bring. The danger is that the effect of the proposals is that households with housing debts and high interest rates can receive less advice and no better advice, which is the intention. The Norwegian model, with a well-organised working life and a well-functioning tripartite cooperation between the employer, the employee and the state, has been good for the Norwegian community and for the Norwegian economy. A central principle of this model is that wage settlements are the responsibility of the parties. This fundamental principle is violated by the proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party. I am therefore pleased that a large majority of the committee warns the Storting against asking the government to join the payroll, as stated in the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3181	I must first clarify a manifest misunderstanding. Our proposal does not involve a breach of Norwegian tradition or rules on wage formation in Norwegian society – rather, on the contrary. The involvement is quite different from being an active party in a negotiation, and I think the Labour Party and the government parties are fully aware of that. Thus, the government should not interfere directly with the wage settlement but can contribute to a moderate settlement. It was not by chance that the government communicated both the extension of the electricity support system and the reduction of the electricity charge in advance of the technical calculation committee’s estimate for the expected price increase. It turned out to be at 3.3 pst, and alternatively, without these government signals, it could be at 4.1 pst. It would affect wage-fixing and make it significantly more expensive for businesses. The requirements would be much higher. The signals from the Joint Confederation prior to the negotiations in the front-stage subjects were also very clear. The government wanted contributions, and then the main focus was on the power support and extended power support. That's the principle. Our proposal is not a violation of the practice that has been carried out in Norway, nor is it a violation of tripartite cooperation. But we would go further in using the extraordinary incomes of the government to contribute to an even more moderate wage settlement than the government chose to do. There we disagree on the facts, but the principle is, in fact, quite the same. Our proposal, if it had been followed up, would have a positive impact on the wage settlement. This would lead to lower demands. This would be good for the Norwegian competitive industry, because the cost increases would be smaller. But we just have to admit that it's not possible to get a majority for. Finally, I have to clarify for the sake of order that the government parties, in cooperation with SV, set up the fuel tax at the end of the year and not down. Then I'll take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3194	The representative Hans Andreas Limi has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3199	What is one of the really high quality of the Norwegian system is that we have responsible parties who are able to find solutions when there are ups and downs, who have a greater perspective than just increasing wages for themselves, and who see how we can manage to create stability, security, a safe labour market and a safe economic development. The Norwegian system, in which we agree on numbers, where we agree on the rules of the game, where we sit down and find solutions, is a basic and good quality that serves us all and that serves us as elected members of the people and governments. Now we also see in this year's settlement, which is a demanding settlement, that the front disciplines were able to come up with a solution that both industry, business and employees were satisfied with. It's not a simple problem, with so much anxiety around us now. But it shows how important it is that we have strong organisations. That is why I believe that the government did last autumn – the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, with the support of SV – for which we secured a majority in this House, to strengthen the trade union deduction in order to try to build up under a high level of organisation and a well-organised working life, is a good measure for all of us. The industry we discussed instead, where there was concern about recruitment and stability in terms of labour, i.e. the tourism industry and the restaurant industry, is one of the industries where the level of organisation is relatively low. For that industry too, it would over time be beneficial if the level of organisation had been improved and also created more predictability and security for the individual worker. The government agrees with the majority position, and the year's wage bill and how it has been done for the front line, even before this proposal has been discussed, shows that it is very difficult to imagine that the Storting is going on and on, in the various pay statements, to take different measures to settle wages and salaries in one direction or another. But, of course, it is the security, stability and long-term tax and tax arrangements that also provide security for those who are required to implement wage settlements, and that both the Storting and the Government provide a good framework for nutrition and for those who are employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3210	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3215	The proposal of the Progress Party on a power support scheme with full coverage of the current price above 50 kWh, the removal of excise duties on fuel and half of VAT on food, among other things, will be a very good addition to today's wage settlement, and not a interference in the wage settlement, as it tries to draw a picture here. Not only will the proposed measures dampen price growth, but they will give the country’s citizens and businesses predictability, increased economic space and greater faith in the future. State revenue flows by day as a result of very high electricity, oil and gas revenues. Norway’s Bank’s main instrument for stabilising price growth and economic development in the Norwegian economy is the steering rate. Norway’s Bank now announces a total of seven interest rate increases by 2023 and a mortgage interest rate of about 10 %. 4 pst. For a 4-million-dollar household. Indebtedness will amount to DKK 80000 more in net interest expense. The proposed measures of the Progress Party will dampen inflation and dampen the interest rate path, as the price growth of Norway’s Bank is now trying to slow down. Storing and government have no concerns about having a big heart for other nations and global organisations. We have an aid budget of over 40 billion. kr, and not many months ago Prime Minister Støre went down to Glasgow and distributed uncritically 14 billion. kr in so-called climate aid. It is therefore high time that the government now shows the same roughness and heart rate for its inhabitants as for the rest of the world. Finally, I would particularly like to ask the Workers' Party, the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party, which used large parts of the election campaign to talk about differences and poverty, to support the proposals of the Progress Party. These proposals will directly cut poverty in Norway and make life easier for a large number of people and businesses, who now experience an increasingly pressing economic everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3228	I have to admit that I was a little too slow to ask for a line, so I found out that I had to take a short extra post. With the majority talking very much about our proposal actually breaking the principles of wage formation and wage negotiations in Norway, I just want to stress that it does not. There's a big difference between being a direct party to a negotiation and helping you get a moderate settlement. It was not accidental that the government's signals on the continuation of the power support system came right in advance of the start of the negotiations in the front fields. It is clear that the government has an opportunity to mitigate the demands on the payroll. In our opinion, it was quite right, and you should do more. That would be the Progress Party, ref. the proposal we have made, but the principle is the same. Therefore, I hope you can see that our proposal does not conflict with either tripartite cooperation or what has been tradition in Norway. Otherwise, I would also like to stress that when the government signaled a continuation of the power support, it was completely uncovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3240	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3257	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3264	Let me start by thanking the Committee on Clean and Good Cooperation and Good Dialogue along the way. It's been instructive for a first-journey boy. The issue we are going to debate now is a proposal from the Progress Party to postpone changes in property taxes on farming concessions. I want to start with a couple of central points. The farming industry is a very important industry for Norway. It is our second largest export industry and the world's largest producer and exporter of salmon and rainbow trout. This has given Norway an important global role as a producer of sustainable food. This industry is profitable and provides the basis for jobs in our coastal districts. Not least it provides us with significant food preparation during the time we are in now. For several decades, the tax system in Norway has been based on the principles of broad tax bases, low rates and non-discrimination of industries, activities and investments. This is important in order to maintain a level of taxation that is affordable for business and households, but it requires that the level of taxation does not constitute an undue burden on those affected. This is a balance. The Solberg government had a clear direction in the eight years it ruled. We reduced the tax on Norwegian ownership and working capital. Reductions in the rates and increases in the stock discount were made. In the state budget for 2022, the government of Solberg proposed to increase the stock abate to 50 p.m. This would also have benefited owners of breeding permits, but the Støre government went in the opposite direction. They reduced the stock discount. The challenge is not equal treatment, but the approach of the Big Government to fiscal policy and their policy project. Today’s government has significantly increased the taxation of Norwegian ownership, which is a major disadvantage for Norwegian-led enterprises and jobs. They have done this by reducing the stock discount and increasing the tax rates, which means a tightening of the taxation of working capital. It significantly increases the overall tax burden on all Norwegian-owned enterprises, including those operating within farming. Enterprises need to finance the tax burden more effectively by taking dividends from their enterprises. The big government has also been generous there; they have increased the dividend tax. This means that there is less money available for investment, necessary conversion and not least good use in local communities. It's the intensifications the current government has carried out that are particularly hard on the businesses we're now debating. It is therefore necessary for the government to assess whether the phase-in of the property tax on those permits should be phased in. With that, I'll bring up the proposal on the right hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3283	The representative of Mahmoud Farahmand has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3288	Let me start by saying that the aquaculture industry is very important to Norway. It provides high value creation and important jobs across the coast. It's also one of our most growing and profitable industries. For the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, it is important to have localised companies that are willing to be in the municipality and create local jobs. They are also important for the creation of robust communities because many of these companies are often important contributors to both culture and sport, creating housing and living conditions. This is why the sample, which was reduced by the previous government, has also been continued, which looks at the authorisation system for the aquaculture industry. In this work, the sample shall look at the effects of the permit system on the aquaculture industry, including the structure of ownership. Government tax policy is based on the principles of helping to reduce disparities, finance well-being and ensure predictability for people and businesses. Where the previous government prioritised tax cuts to the richest, the Workers' Party-Center Party-Registration has a tax policy that is fair and redistributive. Simply put, people with ordinary and low incomes have to pay less in taxes. People with high incomes and high wealth have to pay more in taxes. We have made the taxes on wealth fairer by making people with high wealth pay more in taxes, while increasing the deduction. The taxation of wealth is an important instrument to ensure fairer distribution, to reduce social and geographical disparities and to provide a strong welfare country independent of people's wallet and residence. So to the representative proposal itself: there is no good professional justification for a practice in which the timing of the grant or acquisition of an authorisation determines whether or not a property tax is levied. While some reactions to the case have been made by industry and coastal communities, the responses have not been primarily related to how concessions should be included in the basis for calculating the property tax, but to the principles of valuation. The principles that the turnover value is the basis for the calculation are established. Then it's announced by the Ministry of Finance that you can move on to a more flat-rate valuation scheme, and the recordings that have been made, we're also going to include in the assessment to create both fairness and predictability for the industry throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3305	Breeding is an important district industry. Yesterday we were the last time a group of large-scale representatives from the Senterpartiet in Brønnøysund and visited breeding facilities. It's great to see what one has managed to create, and what possibilities one also sees in the future in the breeding industry. The Solberg government presented a government budget which suggested that property taxes should be imposed on older farming concessions or that they should be included as part of the wealth tax base. At the same time, one introduced the same model of new concessions in unlisted companies. This has created an engagement, it has created reactions, and that is certainly all reason to say that the political craft in front of this, by the daring finance minister Jan Tore Sanner, was too poor. I'm not going to turn this into a debate on wealth taxes in general, but after hearing the case-speaker's comments, a few impressions can be made that corporate owners around the country have felt that with the Right in government, the wealth tax went down. There's probably a little bit of mixed experience of what happened. Someone got lower taxes on wealth, many got higher, based on principle. So short to the cause and the content of the matter. It's a industry that has relatively high ignition levels. It's an important district industry. I think it's important that one has a policy that takes particular care that we want the small and medium-sized players. Therefore, it is so important that it is established in the Hurdal platform that one should do so. So to the question, is there a basis for the tax on older concessions, that it's part of the asset base? Yes. Should a value be set after the value of the concession? There's also the answer, yes, one should have. Then it's like you should look at the principle of finding this translation value, which is the right one. There's a lot of input there, and they expect me to be judged by the government. So it's clear that this is part of the asset base, and that it's the translation value that's the starting point, but one can look at the principle of whether what Jan Tore Sanner has presented was the right one, or whether we can find a better solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3318	The marine industry is an important industry for almost the whole of our coast. It employs thousands of people and creates enormous values for Norwegian society every year. The industry is definitely one of the legs we're going to be on, because the oil and gas are going to be less for the Norwegian economy in the future. We have the natural advantage of breeding Atlantic salmon and trout, and we have developed a very valuable competence base over the last decades. Another strong force is the diversity of companies in the sector — small, medium and large, listed and unlisted. Unfortunately, it may now change with the change in the majority of the population from the new year, because what has happened is that the tax bill for many owners of small and medium-sized breeding companies has increased by up to 700-800 pst. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand that it's going to go beyond something. Because the money's not in the mattresses. They're invested in equipment, in machines, around the company. The proposal that was adopted in the state budget, against our votes, I think I can get four outcomes. The first – and perhaps the best, but most naive – is that nothing happens. There's a few people who believe in something. The second is that more companies will go on the stock exchange. This is also a loss, because it is believed that there are small and large companies, listed and unlisted. The third is that you can get a buy-in rudder from non-residents. I think there are few who want it, but there are guaranteed good investment objects for many investors abroad. The fourth is that you get out of the coast -- maybe first to Bø. But what happens next, when these owners move out of the country? It loses all of AS Norway on it. The companies will, of course, be amputated, because you have to pay the tax bill. For those of us who believe that it is a strength that owners, managers and employees also associate outside the job – at the store, at the football training, at parental meetings – the adopted proposal is very poor. And it's not just us who think. This also seems to be the case, for example. Norwegian fjord and coastal municipalities. A number of Labour Party and Center Party rapporteurs all over the coast are warning against the adopted proposal and are asking their parties here in the UK to support our proposal here today, but unfortunately it does not seem to be. I am not least in doubt that the economists in the Ministry of Finance believe that this is a good proposal, but that it has passed the political assessment – with a practice like the Minister of Finance – it surprises me. I then take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3333	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3338	Norway remains an unfair and classed society. We've been through tax systems and that kind of thing, though, making sure that we're able to even out the differences here in the country. Those who earn the most have to tax through a progressive tax system, and the industries that have the greatest profit have to pay the rent because they operate on the community's resources. That's how we've done it by taxing the oil industry hard, and that's how we've done it by taxing the energy companies in the hydropower. And as it wasn't that long ago a proposal to do the same with the aquaculture industry, we experienced that we had a strong lobby campaign that actually managed to shoot down a very well-founded proposal from a government-designated selection long before it came to treatment here in the Storting. It's a little bad to be able to translate its enormous economic power into political influence, but the aquaculture industry is actually able to do it. Those who have joined the debate have also seen the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Terje Søviknes, act as coordinator of the party's group at the same time as he was in charge of one of these companies that would benefit from not being subject to this tax regime. We can't have it like that, and unfortunately, this isn't an isolated case. Now the situation is that in many places we have very rich people walking around poor municipalities along the coast. There are rapporteurs who have to cut off the normal welfare offer that people have to have, who nevertheless choose to go into partnership with the richest in their municipality to speak their case. In Red, we've gone to the elections to abolish Difference Norway. One of the ways to do this is to bring this industry under democratic control and popular governance and vote down this proposal that comes from the Progress Party. If a concession has been granted free of charge before 1998, and today it can be transferred to a value of several hundred million dollars, it is obvious that it is a property to be taxed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3351	It seems that there is a very broad plurality – all parties apart from the Progress Party – that stand together in this matter. However, it is important to clarify that it is one thing that is at hand, the main principle is that the values of all types of breeding concessions should be treated in a non-discriminatory way and included in the basis of property taxes. It's about non-discrimination and having a rationality in the tax system that doesn't have a different treatment of different types of concessions that are impossible to defend in the future. It is important to note that there is a great difference in thinking about taxes in general, and property taxes in particular, between the parties Right, Left and Christian People's Party and the other parties that are part of this plurality. What has also been important for the Left and the other parties in the former Solberg government is that we should have a broader tax base, but at the same time change the wealth tax so that we get a lower tax rate and a higher tax rate. And now we've got a new government that is also for a broader tax base, but that will combine it with a higher tax rate and a lower stock tax. The difference between the two tax systems is quite dramatic and provides a dramatic economic impact for small and medium-sized family-owned farming companies around the coast. The representative Pollestad said that he and the Central Party would not make this a debate on property taxes in general, and the Center Party would not want to, but it is unfortunately right and necessary. Because with the new policy for which a new government is responsible when it owes taxes on wealth, for years to come, this could be more dramatic for the Norwegian-owned, family-owned enterprises, both in the farming sector and in other important district industries. Unfortunately, the red-green plurality has to bear in mind that the wealth tax debate will come forward because it is about the economic basis we are going to have for Norwegian ownership, for family ownership and to have the strength of these companies that is needed to take out the enormous potential of both farming and other district industries for years to come. For this reason, it is important for the Left that we now look at the consequences of what is being done here, and we ask the government to now assess the gradual phasing-in of the property tax on farm allowances acquired before 1998. That's the smallest thing we have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3366	The proposers ask the government to submit proposals to postpone the payment of property taxes on farm concessions acquired before 1998 pending the investigation into the tax committee. I would first like to make it clear that the amendment to the Act on Breeding Concessions, which was implemented in the 2022 budget, is that permits acquired before and after 1998 are now to be treated equally for tax purposes. It is difficult to see good reasons for the time at which authorisation is granted shall be decisive for whether or not property taxes are levied. In the same way as the Solberg government, we therefore thought that a clean-up is necessary. I also believe that breeding permits must be valued on the basis of the general rule of the Tax Act to take as a basis the market value. It is also my impression that the industry and coastal communities have been particularly concerned with the importance of the auction price for the valuation. The government has stated in its budget proposal that today’s auction prices can provide a starting point for finding the market values of the breeding authorisations. However, this does not mean that the auction price should be taken into account in all cases. There may be specific conditions at the individual breeding concession that make auctioning prices not a good indication of market value. In such cases, more than auction prices must be considered in order to determine the value of the property. The tax base will provide additional guidance for this assessment, and this should be a single response for many of those who have been concerned about how this should be designed. I have also noticed that conveying the important clarification from the government, which is also included in the budget, can provide some relief to the industry. Then I'm not going to start a big debate on property taxes here, but in this case, the main principle is really whether we should have different rules for farming concessions acquired before 1998 or after 1998. I believe that it makes sense with the main change the government has made, and that, then, all the parties have put up, and then you have to come back to the final valuation once we have done that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3383	It's nice that the Council of State says in the pulpit that he thinks he can reassure the industry. Then I don't think he's talked to the industry in the last few months, because they're not calmed, either by what was agreed in the state budget for 2022, or by the dialogue with the government afterwards – rather on the contrary. This is a targeted attack on the district industry. These are farms around the districts, along the whole coast, and when owners then experience getting 700-800 pst. tax increase, that money must be taken from one place. It also happens, as the Council of State was inside, in the coastal and fjord municipalities, and very many of them are run by the Center Party. I have had good dialogue with them all the way, and they strongly warn against this. Does it make sense when the Council's own party traps mean exactly that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3392	What is important is that you have a good and fair tax system over time, and that everyone contributes according to ability; the stronger you have, the more you have to contribute. For Norwegian society is a spice layer, and it has been a successful spice layer. Not least, we have seen the last year how important it is that we have jointly funded welfare schemes. We also have to have a tax system that makes people who create values and industry have to be left with a gain, because they also take increased risks and put in increased efforts. That is why, of course, the rapporteurs of the Central Party are constantly concerned with local business and how they can have the capacity to reinvest and provide more activity. That is why I also have dialogue with them. So I know that one concern has been the discussion of whether it's just the auction price that's to be taken into account, and that's what I also explained here, that it doesn't necessarily have to be like that, because there might also be other conditions that make it not reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3401	What the rapporteurs of the Central Party are concerned about is precisely that these owners should leave their municipalities. So what's going on? Well, maybe that owner and a generation afterwards will have a connection to that municipality, to the permits, but the generations that come after will probably have the whole world as an investment universe, not necessarily that of the West, in Trøndelag or in Northernland. I notice that the Council of State is very clear on this with equal treatment. Then I have a question following it: is it that we can expect that the valuation of fishing permits will also change from cost to trading or market value?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3408	We have not announced any other changes, and what we have announced in the government platform is that those coastal communities that have large natural resources should be left with greater revenues from them. Not least in the farming industry, it has been – fortunately – a good part of the companies that have made large and good money. Then the Workers' Party-Center Party government is committed to the fact that those societies that have large businesses that generate large incomes will also be left with a large part of the values – both in terms of agriculture and not least hydropower, and now wind power and other natural resources. For some of the strengths in Norway, it has been for local municipalities to set aside more land, whether it is for farming or other types of natural intervention, and also that they get more of the values. I think it's also some of the success of the farming industry, that you see local communities get a lot of value again. We are also going to be concerned that the municipalities will be left with a substantial part of that value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3417	Although the Council of State does not say it directly, I suppose we can be a few that, within it, the principle of non-discrimination that we are some about in this matter, how much individual company will pay in taxes on wealth, to the seventh and, of course, to the last, depending on the principle of establishing the value that is used, but also on the tax rate, and on the share tax and other arrangements of the system. It is then that a substantial part of the criticism that I have at least experienced, and the unrest from many actors in the industry, comes from the fact that the new government has turned the tax rate up and brought down the stock discount. So I want to ask the Minister of Finance: when he sees all the reactions that have come, is it that the government has now reached the ceiling for how high will the tax rate on the property tax and how low will the stock tax be? Or could it be relevant to turn the bets further into the coming state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3424	The government is very clear in its priorities, and we have also shown that in our first budget: people with normal and medium incomes – quite high incomes, in fact; up to SEK 750,000 – should feel that they are getting lower tax pressures. We have also thought that those with higher incomes must be able to contribute a little more. So we all know that tax is a cost, so it's always about making the best use of public money. But when we're going to solve new common tasks, we think it's those who have the highest income and the greatest wealth, who have to pay the greater part of that promise. The government is based on the broad tax settlement that was in Stortingen two major periods ago. We believe that it is a very good thing for Norway that some basic principles are overdue, and there are among other things. taxes on wealth, stock discounts and some other things mentioned. So we're based on the tax settlement that a fairly broad majority in the Grand Duchy was behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3431	I don't know if that answer was so very funny for those who are currently dealing with family-owned businesses. There is no doubt that they are in the class that, to put it that way, they think more than NOK 750000–800000. But if we make up a system where running profitable business in District Norway is seen on something that can still turn on the screw, because they're above the average of the people in Norway's teeth, then we're in a rather dangerous galley, at least when it comes to securing Norwegian ownership. The special feature of the property tax is that he does not frame all types of owners: he frames Norwegian owners, and not, for example. the large listed companies. Does the Council of State see that ever turning to property taxes is not just about reducing the differences among people, but that it is also a way of turning ownership in Norway, from local ownership, private ownership and family ownership and over into ownership of stock exchange and foreign ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3438	There are many arguments used in discussions on taxes on wealth, and one of the most harsh arguments is the withdrawal of district policies as an argument against taxes on wealth. If we look at how the wealth tax is distributed, it's a huge difference if you go to, for example. Nordic countries, where there is quite a lot of breeding, compared to, for example, central Oslo. So it's one of the forms of tax that really gives a large geographical distribution of bias, because the wealth is so concentrated in some parts of the country. I see that there are arguments – all forms of taxation have costs, benefits and disadvantages, and so is the case with taxes on wealth. But it's not a district argument. If you had thought of clean district policies, you might have thought that property taxes are one of the least burdensome forms of taxation to increase, but I think it's too easy to do so, because I also see that it has costs and consequences. Both the Senterpartiet and the Arbeiderpartiet were involved in a broad tax settlement in Stortinget to create predictability, and some of what we thought was important then was that we should lower the corporate tax in general, so that it would be more profitable to run businesses and activity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3445	It was interesting now when the Council of State took up the debate on who is paying property taxes, whether there are people in Oslo or people in the districts. Then I can try a little challenge to the Council of State. With regard to this proposal for increased taxes on wealth on these old concessions, can he estimate how much percent of those living in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3450	This was a discussion about property taxes, and that's exactly what was my whole point, that I said that I think it's scary to use the property tax discussion in a district debate, because it's too simplified. If we had done so on property taxes, we could say that raising property taxes in isolation is a city/country discussion, and I think that is completely wrong. That's when you banish politics. Some of the reasons why we also have taxes on wealth in Norway include: that we have chosen to have lower property taxes in Norway than in many other countries. It's also a way of financing the common good that we're all concerned with. The Central Party and the Workers' Party have been concerned that the tax cuts that come are going to benefit people with ordinary and middle incomes, so-called most or ordinary people. For example, one of the grips we did – where the Progress Party had taken a completely different direction when they ran, by increasing the electricity charge – was to put the electricity charge down, because we thought it was a good and targeted measure that helps everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3458	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3465	I want to start with a little clarification. I don't mean to be disrespectful when I stand there, but I get sunburned in the back of my head because I have so little hair, and the sun shines straight at it. To get back to the matter: I thank you for a good debate and a good line change. I notice that the government parties are unable to agree on whether the tax policy on the right led, was good or bad. There's a big spread there. What's interesting, and what we're observing here, is how there's a consensus on non-discrimination about different types of industries and their taxation, while there are some important points that have been put forward here that it's not equal treatment itself, but the level it's put on, which is the challenge. What I can say on behalf of the Right is that we are looking forward to seeing the solution and assessment coming from the Department of this stencil solution. We're looking forward to the discussion that's coming there, and probably going to be positive in a way if it's of a good kind. Otherwise, I hope this debate is not over yet, because I think we have a little discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3478	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3497	The price check is no longer news. It's been noticed by people's wallets for the most part, and a lot of people probably used the Passover over the calculator to figure out how to jump in the next few months. Everything is getting more expensive, and the NRK has made an estimate that talked about extra costs of over NOK 40000 for a normal family. When the Minister of Finance presented his government budget before Christmas, a price increase of 1.3 p.m. was expected. this year. Now the latest estimate is 3.3 pst. In addition, food prices seem to increase even more than that, and summer records are expected on the electricity price. I'm not going to criticize the Minister of Finance for not having anticipated the future, but what to do with the new situation? It is the Minister's responsibility. In the last few months the government has repeated to the tedious that they are concerned, and that they follow the situation closely, but it exactly helps 0.0 pst. for those who are now sitting and looking for places to cut to get the wheels to go around. If the plan has been to wait and hope that it goes over, then this time in the movie is to realize that it doesn't go over, it's serious. We just came out of a pandemic that has increased the differences. The wealthiest increased wealth on average by 50 million. are those with normal and low incomes who have been unemployed. The government has repeatedly stressed that Norwegian families have on average saved NOK 100000 through the corona and now have a buffer to use. But on average, both grandchildren and grandparents will be 42 years old. The average doesn't work this way, it's going to be a class-blind way of looking at economics. Some have gone solidly to the minus, others solid to the plus, and I'm afraid that the price crisis will have the same effect as all crises, that they will increase the differences. In contrast to Norway, some other countries have introduced measures. Sweden, as Norway, has introduced a power support, but at the top of it has taken action against more expensive fuels and brought a large package for cheaper public transport. New Zealand has cut half the price of public transport and reduced fuel costs, and Denmark has introduced this week, as the EU has pointed out, but as Norway has closed down, support for heat pumps, which actually have an effect on people’s electricity consumption and electricity billing. I am particularly surprised that Red's proposal to reduce the food tax has fallen to deaf ears at the Council of State. Here I could give my own reason why this is a good deal, but I prefer to quote what the Central Party wrote in its alternative budget last year. Then they themselves suggested using 3 million. kr to reduce the food tax. And then they wrote: ‘In the case of a family of children, this fee may amount to about one per cent. NOK 3000 in reduced costs of food and drink per year. It will make a significant difference in a tight family budget. In particular, this relief is important in today's situation. [[...]] These are very good words from the Central Party, which ensured a historically good election for the party, and now it is asked whether you should not deliver on which people have voted. Inflation must be one of the most googleled words on Norwegian Google.com at the moment. The finance minister should be concerned about inflation, and so am I, but I find it too easy to reject any action in the face of the price crisis with the final points on inflation. Cutting the fees, as Red has suggested, cuts prices and thus reduces the measured price growth directly. If you are concerned about the pressures in the economy, Red has made many suggestions on how to reduce investment, for example. oil and large-scale motorway projects, and not least the taxes on those with more than enough and who have actually got more through the corona. Then you pick up money with one hand and distribute it with the other, without the sum changing, without changing the pressure on the economy. There is nothing magical about the money Red proposes to spend, which means that they create more inflation than the money spent on, for example. motorway projects. It's serious now. For each interview where both the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and others in the government parties refuse to do something, prices have increased even more. There has been a refusal to do something in the crisis package that has been presented to the government, and there is a great deal of vagueness about whether or not we intend to do something in the revised budget. Therefore, I ask: What is it like for the government to introduce measures that will take the households under this price shock?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3519	Thanks for the interpellation on a very important theme – for the whole theme for those sitting on the Stortinget, and we who are in government, are how to make life for people better and safer. We now see that things are going well in the Norwegian economy, and that we can say that after the three crises we've been through, both the coronary crisis, the incredible turmoil in the commodity markets, and now, with the terrible war that we're witnessing, which also affects us, both directly and indirectly, is not a matter of course. The activity is very high, the economic growth is strong, and one of the best things for many is that unemployment is very low. But what also hits us is that a lot of companies have challenges getting access to people. We just have to hope and believe that we can get professional participation further up, and we have a positive development there. High commodity prices cause our export revenues to increase sharply, but for individuals and individual businesses, there can be great unrest and uncertainty. What we see is that the financial position of households in general is very good. You can always see exceptions to that, but the big picture is that it's good. It is also expected that Norwegian households will have more to go with when this crisis is over, when we see it over time, than when we entered the crisis. The goal is that people over time should be able to get it a little bit better, and that's what also looks like can happen, even in the turbulent time we're in now, and with the background of the pay-roll we're in. Then it's important for the government to make some political priorities. In the state budget for 2022, we reduced the income tax for everyone with income below NOK 750000. Also, on the cost side, we reduced the maximum price in kindergarten and introduced free core time for first-rate classes, and we did things on the fee side that help the wide range of the population. We have experienced very high electricity prices in South Norway over the winter. Like the countries around us, electricity expenditure has increased sharply. We have made a lot of efforts to mitigate them, and I believe that the representative made a little misleading statements in her post, because she promised that some countries had invested in heat pumps, that it was kind of the big measure. We have also given increased support to anincreased measure through Enova, and we believe it is longer-term measures, but it was not the most important one. We've increased the framework grants to municipalities to increase social assistance here and now, for social assistance recipients is a group that typically has bigger challenges, we've done things with housing support for those with low incomes, and not least we have a new electricity security system that helps the wider population. In addition, we have reduced the electricity charge. A reduction in the electricity charge is not a temporary measure, it is a permanent measure. In sum, it's estimated that you're going to spend 22 billion on the other side. kr on different power measures in 2022 to mitigate the enormous price fluctuations and the high prices observed within the electricity market. We are also working on a permanent change, in addition to the electricity charge, by the government working on creating a new fixed-price system and a change in the rent tax on hydropower production, which makes it easier to offer lower fixed-price prices than you've been accustomed to now, so that people become less dependent on the daily fluctuations in the market, which create very vulnerability. There are a lot of different things you could have been in, but summarized is the Norwegian economy within a very high economic cycle, while we have all this turmoil. It's at this time that we're going to run the boat, and what's the whole goal of the Center Party and the Workers' Party in government, is that we're going to run the boat in such a way that a person who has 500,000 – 600 000 kroner in income, where perhaps the spouse also has 400,000 – 600 000 kroner in income, will experience that when this is over, if a commuter, if one has children in the kindergarten, and if one is going to get a living together, one should notice that there is a government that is taking action to remedy the situation we're in now. One of the most important measures in years that have the most impact on the private economy is electricity. So let's see, for example. that fuel prices can be extra challenging, not least for some small operators with high fuel consumption, and also for those who commute long. That is why it is important that we, for example: have strengthened the commuting deduction as much as we have done, so that many of those who actually commute far will experience that the tax and tax burden in total will decrease in 2022 compared to 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3540	I hear a finance minister who is largely satisfied with the development of the Norwegian economy. I have to say, I think the goal of the government so clearly is very good, but goals do not move mountains alone – you have to do something to achieve these goals. It's true that some macroindicators of the Norwegian economy are going in a positive direction, and that's very good. But here this average argument comes in, and it helps very little for those who are long-term unemployed, those who have now fallen out of the cash system, and the social welfare recipients who have received a really lower social assistance benefit this year than last year, because prices are increasing more than you thought. It does little to help them that someone else is doing well, and it does little to help them, for example. have high fuel costs that someone else has increased savings through the corona, or that someone else is coming to work. I hear a finance minister who really doesn't seem to have any plan to do anything about this price crisis right now, and that's what this interview is about trying to get an answer to. We can talk about long-term tax effects and what you might see in the rearview mirror in two to three years, but right now, in the last few months, there has been a price shock over a very short period of time. Very high price increases have met both families and, in fact, businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises such as the United Kingdom. have entered into contracts, which now require them to take the full cost of fuel on their own jacket, and it may affect jobs. I'm also very concerned about some kind of spiral effect here, that the power price and the fuel price of business are so high and you don't do anything about it to business. If you're bound by a contract where you can't increase prices, it'll threaten jobs, and it's serious. If you are not bound by a contract that makes it impossible to set the prices, you set the prices – it is certain: Everything from the hairdresser to the cinema to the truck company is going to set up the prices. Then I believe that we are looking at a price increase that is far higher than the one you are now considering. I remember that six months ago it was thought that prices this year would increase by 1.3 pst. Now it's going to be 3.3 pst. When the Technical Calculation Committee presented its estimate of price increases a few months ago, there was a completely different estimate of the food price. It's obviously also about the length of the war in Ukraine, and we might also expect that it's long before there's a normalization of food production in the world. So once again, I want an answer on whether something is coming at all, because what I heard in the answer from the finance minister was that it's going well, and that there's really no plan to do anything now – maybe in the longer term, but nothing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3561	Then I don't think the representative really chose to hear, for example. I just talked about the one thing we're doing on power. We can define that devoting some and 20 billion to action is not doing anything, but it's of course doing something when you increase housing, give extra money to the municipalities to give them the opportunity to provide more social assistance, introduce a new insurance scheme, reduce the electricity charge, to mention some of the measures that go on stream. Working to change the tax system, which allows more day-to-day unbundling with fixed-price contracts, is doing something. That's a lot. And when I say that things are going well in the Norwegian economy, because that's what they do in general, we're of course worried about the individuals affected. This is why these measures are implemented, and it is therefore so important that tax measures are also taken. That you keep thinking about them with low and middle incomes is also doing something. When everyone with income less than NOK 750,000 gets a lower tax, you do something. There are also those who get higher taxes — those who have the highest income — because they want a redistribution. We have a practical policy to develop all parts of Norway, so that it is also possible to live where there are long travel distances, by increasing the amount of commuting. One that, for example, commuter from Hamar to Oslo, can earn well and get the deduction increased by over NOK 20 000. It's a big grip for those who depend on transport. But of course it's a little late, because it's going to be the tax settlement for this year, so you don't notice it concretely, but it'll improve purchasing power. And we're putting down kindergarten prices, and of course it helps the families of young children as kindergarten prices go down. It makes things a little bit easier. And we're introducing free SFOs for the first class, because we know that often there are many of the families with the smallest children, who also have the highest debt – and that helps to remedy the situation. What is also scary – for example, when we see a group that is most vulnerable to the rise in debt. families with young children, who are heavily indebted — are taking steps to make interest rates rise too fast. Everyone understands that the interest rate will rise after such a period that we have been through now, and Norway’s Bank has notified it over time, but we do not have to take action to make the interest rate rise further. For only one monthly cost with one additional interest rate point, an extra of more than NOK 2000 for a normal Norwegian family of young children. The whole point of economic policy, of being here, is that that's the sum of the measures that we're doing, is going to make everyday life better for people. We have to make sure that even in such an alarming time, we have to rule in a way that causes us to reduce unemployment, get more people working, and that those who are working will experience that purchasing power stays up over time – and that you go up, not down. The good thing that Red doesn't get through for his new views on oil and gas policy, because some of the reasons why we can do this is because we have a super-profitable oil and gas industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3576	Thank you to the interpellant for raising questions that many are currently concerned about. It's not hard to understand the concern of ordinary people. First came covid-l9, with two rounds of closures, layoffs and lost income for many – among both ordinary employees, freelancers and self-employed, where some industries were more exposed than others. Then came the increased electricity prices, then the catastrophic war in Ukraine, which primarily affects Ukraine and its inhabitants, but which also has consequences for the rest of Europe and the rest of the world. Keywords are food shortages and increased food prices, shortage of raw materials and increased commodity prices, including fuel, but the latter were actually more expensive 20 years ago. The Labour Party has always contributed, from the first crisis packages in connection with the pandemic – under the previous government and under new government – to providing crisis packages with a fair social profile. We know that crises help to increase the differences between people. Reduced differences are a measure of today's red-green government, both under normal conditions and in exceptional times. Together with SV, we have put in place accurate support schemes for households hit hardest by increased electricity prices, for the voluntary sector and for agriculture. We've gone against the max price, which would give the most to those who have the most from before. We've expanded the housing support system, which hits them with the least. On 3 May, the Stortinget will deal with a crisis package in connection with the war in Ukraine. It concerns the necessary appropriations that cannot wait until the RNB, which are intended to enable us to accept the refugees from Ukraine properly, improvements in military and civil protection, and support for companies that experience a significant drop in turnover as a result of our common sanctions against Russia. More will have to come, both from humanitarian aid and from repatriation when the terrible war in Ukraine is once over. Let's all hope it'll be soon, but it'll have consequences. Two days ago, the IMF launched a new and updated report on the world economy. The war in Ukraine means that expectations for new economic growth after the pandemic need to be reduced. Inflation is expected to increase more than initially assumed, most in developing economies. We're better off than many others. This is due, inter alia, to: that we have a welfare state with popular and social welfare — and an oil wealth, which also belongs to future generations. It is not obvious, but the result of forward-looking political decisions. And we're going to keep doing that. That's why I'm a little surprised at the entrance to this interpellation from Red. I struggle to get what is added to the ‘households’. A household doesn't look like a household, does it? Most of us are currently doing well with the support we have already received. The availability is low. The economy's fine. Wages and salaries for the front disciplines are based on real wage increases. What amazes me, too, is that Red, without anchoring in overall budgetary assessments, is focused on as much increased oil money usage as it may look like here. The worst thing we can do now is spend so much money that interest rates increase more. Then the gain can quickly go up in the spin, and who has the worst back to bear increased interest costs? We know that. It's not the ones that have the most. If we end up there, we've used what we need from the space of action, while there's big and important welfare issues ahead of us. The Pensions Committee shall, inter alia: assess the reasonable level of the minimum pension in the future. At some point, new and fairer AFPs are coming, and improvements are being made in redundancy schemes. All of this is for those who have the least. Fair distribution is about more than ourselves. High prices of fertilisers also threaten food production in poor countries. A new great famine may be under way, and the World Food Fund is already short of money. Then the Workers' Party believes that we cannot just complain and say that the room for action was unfortunately used up on ourselves here at home. We have to see things in context, and we also have to be able to see a little bit beyond our own limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3604	We're in a strange position in these days. At the same time, in the Norwegian economy, with high activity, low unemployment and strong economic growth, we know that there are many who are struggling because of just higher prices of electricity, petrol and food. Inflation is back and therefore also higher interest rates. This is related and can become more challenging in the future. That's why I agree with the previous speaker that we can't now adopt things that limit the scope of action, and say that we were more concerned about what happened right now, instead of thinking a little bit long-term. Increasing interest rates are actually a sign of health, because that means that the economy no longer depends on the incentive that low interest rates give. But when many countries now experience strong economic growth and activity, and at the same time we have a shortage of raw materials and production, as a result of both the pandemic and now war, prices are being raised. The price increase resulting from the lack of goods leads to inflation. We pay a lot without getting more. Then the central bank sets up the interest rate to slow down demand. The reason why I say this is because it may be difficult to understand why a country like Norway, where the economy is going well and the money is running into some areas, should not continue to stimulate the economy through many new state support packages. It maintains a demand for goods that are already lacking. So we can end up in a vicious spiral of price increases, incentives, inflation and rising interest rates. As many of the measures requested include: Red, maintaining the purchasing power of goods already lacking, rising prices or constant demand for defective products may lead to rationalisation, which is a common practice in countries governed by the principles of Red. Short-term, poor decisions now can do long-term damage to ordinary people, businesses and the Norwegian economy. The right has also been to make the extraordinary flow revenue go back to ordinary people and target those who need it the most, among others. through the housing aid, to those who are still available, on leave or on redundancy pay. Of course, in the event of crises and extraordinary events that give sudden results, we should consider whether it is possible to mitigate the effect temporarily or until the crisis is resolved. But the Storting cannot, in effect, adopt matters that can make bad for those who already have to deal with high costs, such as: during the first crisis package under the pandemic, where the parties fought in political cowards who had nothing to do with combating the effects of a global deadly pandemic – such as accelerating a full-scale carbon capture and storage project or more money for racial protection and district broadband. It was completely legitimate matters, but they were neither targeted nor accurate to prevent death as a result of the pandemic nor that businesses went bankrupt. We heard in a previous case that the Progress Party wanted to provide a moderate wage settlement by tearing down its cappers – with proposals to reduce the user charge on petrol and diesel, which they are in favour of, whether it is a crisis or not, reducing the VAT on food, which they are in favour of whether it is a crisis or not, and other taxes and tax reliefs that will help to strengthen purchasing power, which they are for whatever crisis or not. Some of this can probably also be right for in a larger context and after a larger investigation. It is already proposed to speed up the removal of fuel taxes, to eliminate user charges, to halve public transport prices, etc. If a responsible economic policy is not now pursued and priority is given to our budgets, the bill is sent to ordinary people through interest rate increases, and then they must give priority to their budgets. An interest rate increase of one percentage point means an additional cost of about NOK 40000 for a family of 4 million. kr in loans, and it comes to the top of that they will be able to cope with all the increased costs for which the State will not be able to compensate. Unresponsive policies can lead to more price shocks and lead to exactly the shock spiral for which Red was also concerned. This will require real political leadership, accountability and long-term sustainability. Good intentions are not enough if the long-term outcome means worse for everyone. Right wants to be a constructive, responsible party also in opposition. We would like to engage in dialogue on the necessary measures, without political or ideological ideals, if they reach those who need it the most, and do not lead to a downward spiral in the Norwegian economy that affects us all. That is why the Right has also said that, despite the lack of detection, we are supporting the government's proposals on crisis packages in the war in Ukraine – in order to avoid precisely political games and ideological cowards. We must assume that the government itself believes their proposals are responsible and sufficient, and we also hope that they will agree to the support and ensure that a broad majority of them are involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3632	Thank you for an important debate, although I am not really getting much wiser. The councils have a very nice list of good things that are done, which was done in the state budget for 2022 and adopted before Christmas, which actually showed how much you can do when you start to reverse the bourgeois tax cuts. Then you can afford a lot of good politics. But it was before this price shock, and I don't think it's the answer to the price shock that came after, to point out things that were decided last year. When it comes to electricity, it's really pretty impressive that you can pay back some of the extra income that the government has, and that the point of entry is 70 cents, when it's about 70 cents. twice as much as the average electricity price. It should kind of just be missing. The fact that you also have some support for housing and for others who obviously need support is very nice. What Red has called for, and as I ask in this interview, is whether you intend to do something more when prices have increased more. I feel that I am not getting a good answer. It's very easy to shoot down other people's proposals, more difficult to make your own good suggestions. That's where I'm really asking the question back to the Council of State and the rest of the government about what to do. The representative of Christoffersen asks quite correctly – who are the households? Some households in Norway are giant and can afford to increase prices mostly; others are poor. Is there a way we could target this to help those who need it, and take away from the rich, for example. in the case of a redistributive tax policy, where households who have good advice receive increased taxes, while at the same time either reducing taxes, cutting taxes, increasing child welfare, increasing well-being or financing dental health — anything that brings more benefits to everyone and, in particular, to those who have poor advice? That's what it's all about, trying to solve this price crisis for people. It's about the community being set up for those who have bad advice, not just pointing to everything you can't do. That's why this interpellation has been asked, not linked to a proposal Red has asked, but as an open question about where the border is going and what to do. Now comes the revised budget soon. I think many people are excited if there are any measures there, or if you think that what you did before the price crisis hit is enough, and that you really don't intend to do anything more. I hope the Council of State can try to answer that in its last article.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3647	Thank you for the debate, also with a little temperature in between. Debates are not always so interested in listening to each other. Nor does Red's representative here seem to be so very interested in listening to what is actually being said. This can be seen, for example. that there is nothing happening now, but one example is that there is still a guarantee scheme in April. There was something you threw around and changed quickly when you saw what was happening in Ukraine and with the terrible war that was there. One of the indirect consequences was that you noticed that the power prices, you saw the forecasts for the power prices, were going to go up again and get to a much higher level than you saw before the war in Ukraine broke out. That is why there is now a guarantee scheme. No one really wants it – to have a market that is as extremely unbalanced as what we see now, not least because of the violent gas prices – but then they did. Then you also chose to increase to 90 pst. at the end of the year, because that's when we use the most power. It was exactly as the idea was when we reduced the electricity charge. The electricity charge will be reduced in the months in which the electricity consumption is highest, and this will be a permanent change. In addition, we are working on a permanent change in fixed-price agreements on electricity, because we believe that too many people are too brutal to be dependent on the day-to-day spot market. We uncouple people who want to, more from day-to-day stock exchange to long-term fixed-price agreements at a much lower price than you're used to now. Hopefully, the market will function in such a way that more people who don't want to be as market sensitive as many are now will drop it. It provides more certainty, more predictability and lower price. Then it's with inflation, the representative said that you've Googled it. The problem with such fluctuations is that they also hit very unfairly. Fortunately, in Norway, prices are much lower than in many other countries. For example: The United States is the last number I've read, at 8,5 pst. – a violent inflation. In the EU, the last numbers I've read are 7.5 pst. In Norway, we are significantly lower. It's very important when we're now running economic policy, that we're not taking action that makes prices just increase further. That's one of the challenges. If we just put a lot of money into an area where there's really no more people to do the job, the prices and costs will just go up further, and it's going to be socially skeptical. Therefore, stability is important both for not rising too fast and for not increasing too much inflation. For those types of fluctuations, they get crooked, and they often hit those that have the least, most. The whole objective of the Central Party-Work Party government policy is to make those with the least benefit, not the worse. Then safe economic governance is some of the answer to that, no matter how boring it may sound. In terms of taxes and tax incentives we make when we make tax reductions, the idea is that they should come in areas where everyone is dependent, for example. current.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-21.ana.ud270e3660	With that is the interpellation debate in case no. 13 is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
