ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e39	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet at oral Question Time Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, Espen Barth Eide and Marte Mjøs Persen. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Henrik Asheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e48	My question is to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. The Government has sent, at the hearing, proposals for significant restrictions on access to contracted labour. This hearing has now ended. The general rule of Norwegian working life shall be full and permanent. Fortunately, this is also the case in Norway. The contracted labour force through employment agencies is only 1,5 pst. of the workforce, and this figure has been stable over time. In order to ensure that rentals take place in order, the Solberg Government also tightened the legislation to include: was paid between assignments and that it is not allowed to have more than 15 pst. of the work-stick set up. But renting is also a very important safety valve. The challenge now is not the lack of companies that want to hire people; there is the lack of enough people with the relevant skills. Therefore, many of the hearing replies have also been very critical of the government’s proposals. As a general rule, the removal of temporary job entry creates major challenges. Industries like industry and travel will need people, because it will vary according to seasons and assignments and offers you win, how much you need of people at all times. My question to the Council of State is, Has it gone a little fast in the swings here? And will the Council of State, based on the feedback she has now received in the hearing, use the consultation to insure the IT industry, the construction industry and the authorities in her own constituency that she will reconsider any of the proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e61	It is true that the government has sent out at the hearing proposals to tighten up the options for hiring, and we are now going through all the hearing replies that have been received. The aim of this consultation is safer working life and to ensure that workers are given more power over their daily lives. It's better for everyone, because it gives us a society that's more productive, it's more competitive, and it's being invested more in employees' skills. In that case, fixed employment is better than temporary and direct employment than rent. What we have proposed is a fundamental change in the strength of many jobs. It means to bring down the amount of rental. We believe that there is a need for a ban regulation, inter alia: in the construction industry of Oslo, Viken and formerly Vestfold, and for other clear restrictions as to the possibility of suspension of the admission of rentals in the case of temporary work. That means we want to grant more rights to lease-in, that is to say, strengthen the right to permanent employment in the lease-in business over a certain period of time, and we want to get rid of the crew companies that are unprofessional. It also means that we have proposed an approval scheme and a clarification of the rental and contract. In this way, we strengthen the serious, orderly working life that we want to identify Norway. This will also make it easier to recruit several of our own young people to these subjects that – and this is quite rightly pointed out by the representative Asheim – we see a shortage in many counties. Some of the hearing opinions that have come are well-known arguments that form part of the political debate. But, of course, we are going through all the answers from the hearing bodies, and we will make proposals when we have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e74	I have great respect for the fact that this has been at the hearing, and that the Council of State needs time to review it, but the reason why I am asking the question now is that the answers to the hearing are quite clear that this seems very poorly investigated. That's why I'm asking about the hurry. I fully agree with the Council of State that we must have a clean and good working life, and that regular employment must be the goal, but what are the hearing answers saying that can be the consequence? Yes, for example. that more people become permanent employees and so leave off for long periods because they are not required to work. The other thing that can happen is that people get temporarily hired. This will mean that you have a consequence that is the opposite of what the council wants. What is the situation following the tightening up of the Solberg government is that people are now permanently employed in the agency and have a pay gap between assignments. If it's changed to becoming a permanent employee in an enterprise and a long-term permit, it's worse for the employee. So my question to the Council of State is again: is she now going to reconsider some of the most radical proposals, all the time the reality out there is saying that the consequence will be different from that of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e79	What we are essentially proposing is a general tightening of access to rentals, and that is because there is a need for a clear tightening of the general access to rentals from recruitment agencies. We also consider removing the access to rentals when working on a temporary basis. Today's ability to hire labour at work of a so-called temporary nature creates many grey zones and abuses, and to reduce associations, etc. We believe, among other things: the initial lease-in is to be limited to temporary-residence cases. In addition, hiring-in by manning undertakings should be reserved for the activities linked to high-level collective bargaining agreements. We have invited this to be recorded as well as to alternative measures that are suitable to limit the use of rentals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e84	There will be follow-up questions – first Henrik Asheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e89	The challenge — for the Council of State said in its previous reply that arguments were seen that were well-known — are the answers given to this consultation, for example. from KS. Our municipalities are now asking the government to wait on this because there will be major challenges in obtaining Norwegian labour, for example. in the refugee crisis we are now in. We also see that the Board of Regulators – it may not sound very good, but it is quite important – which therefore reviews the proposals made by the government and looks at what kind of business they will have, for example. that it is very critical that the government has not identified other ways of achieving its objectives than with such strong intervention, or has not determined what will be the zero option, i.e. to make the legislation that came in 2019 actually work. The reason why I ask the Council of State these questions is that there is now a significant concern in very many seasonally based industries that they will lack access to the labour they need. My question will then be: When the Council of State now has the chance, will she signal that she is not necessarily locked to the solutions sent out in the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e94	The lack of labour that we see in some industries — both seasonal and part of it. The ISO subjects, which are important for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, have just been given access to the existing ones. It hasn't solved that challenge, and I don't believe that it will necessarily make the matter better that we continue as before. When we want to do this, we also want the non-discrimination rules to apply to hiring companies. This means, for example: the remuneration and working conditions must be the same for the lessee as those employed directly in the establishment. The Norwegian model, which I believe is important to take care of, is important because it ensures productivity, it ensures a level playing field, and not least it will help recruit Norwegian youth to take up a profession in these areas, where we need labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e99	Anna Molberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e104	A legal assessment provided in the consultation round by one of Norway’s leading labour law lawyers concludes that the government’s proposal for tightening up the rental law is contrary to the EEA Agreement. The Temporary Agency Directive requires that restrictions should not be too restrictive, and they must be necessary. The report states that the government has not taken into account the fact that rental restrictions have already been imposed in 2019, and the non-discrimination principle introduced in 2013 has strengthened the rights of temporary workers from recruitment agencies. Therefore, the government’s proposals are for intervention and therefore ‘appear prematurity’ and will ‘be able to lead to more temporary and more enterprising employment’. Does the Council of State feel that sound assessments have been made against the EEA Agreement before the proposals were sent to the hearing, or are we faced with a proposal that violates EEA law?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e112	Such an action as we are now taking is justified by the fundamental reasons recognised by the EEA Agreement and EEA law, including the protection of temporary workers, health and safety requirements at work and the need to ensure the proper functioning of the labour market and to prevent abuse. Our assessment is that such an industrial and geographically defined prohibition as we are proposing here is in line with the EEA Agreement. In the case of non-discrimination rules, it is for temporary workers, i.e. the employer, to ensure that, in the case of certain rights, hired workers are at least guaranteed the conditions which would apply if the employee had been employed by the lessee in order to carry out the same work. I therefore believe that the proposals that we have sent out at the hearing are well justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e119	Anna Molberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e124	I thank you for your answer. The same legal assessment also points to the fact that the Working Environment Act only provides for a regulatory ban on rentals if important societal reasons warrant it. The government has proposed to use this form of regulation in order to enforce the prohibition. The report also refers here to the tightening up that was done in 2019, and these have not had time to work. In addition, the Ministry also admits in the consultation note that the rent share has fallen over the last two years, and that this is partly due to the tightening up we did in 2019. The report concludes that the government’s proposals have been rushed and not sufficiently justified by the condition of just major societal considerations. Does the Council of State consider that the government has sufficient authority to enforce this prohibition on rental?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e129	Some industries, and in particular in some geographical areas, have a high share of rentals, and the situation in construction shows that rentals have evolved into a large market, including rentals. foreign labour has become a permanent part of the staffing strategy of the establishment. There is an unfortunate development, which shows that it is possible to apply today’s rental rules in an undesirable way. It is therefore necessary to make fundamental changes to reverse these developments and to ensure that the legislation is in line with what we want the Norwegian working life to be. In the proposal that we have sent out, there are still opportunities for rent when there is a need for it, etc. It is prohibited in a geographical scope, which is Oslo, Viken and formerly Westfold, and that is because this area is considered to constitute a common labour market region, and that is where the problem is greatest.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e136	Emma Watne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e141	The government has promised a large-scale cleaning in the world of work. That's good. Action against renting from the manning industry is a central tool in the major cleaning process. Obviously, the employer’s side, with the NHO in mind, has gone out of hand to stop the proposals that the government has sent out at the hearing. The trade union movement is concerned that the government is standing firm. The LO has required further consultation responses such as a clear distinction between lease-in and contract and a stronger right to permanent employment. Can the Council of State guarantee that the government will not give in to the pressure from the employer and water out the proposal sent to the hearing? Will the demands of the trade union movement be taken into account in the proposal sent by the government to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e146	As I also said in my first answer, the government goes through all the hearings that have come, both from the employer's side, the employee's side and others who have sent recordings. We're going to go through this seriously before we finally conclude. It'll be important. However, as we have argued, I believe that the proposals that we have sent out at the hearing are well justified in principle. The aim is a safer working life where we are to ensure that workers gain more power over their own everyday lives. As I have said several times from this speaker: we do that because it gives us a society that is better for us all, because it gives us a society that is more productive and more competitive, and not least it is invested in the competence of each employee. This is something we've gone to the elections and stand for. So that's why we've both sent this out to the hearing and will follow it up in a proposition for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e151	Emma Watne – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e156	In its 100-day plan, the Workers' Party undertakes to submit proposals to prohibit the lease-in of fixed-term employees. It is a good place to start stopping the manning industry on construction sites in parts of the East, where there is evidence of a large amount of rental – it is usually where the documentation has been best. At the same time, there is no doubt that rents replace fixed employment in other parts of the construction industry, elsewhere in the country and in other industries. Does the government consider extending the proposed rental ban to other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e161	In the proposal that we have put forward at the hearing, we have proposed a ban in a possible geographical area, which is Oslo, Viken and Vestfold. We've got some input on this, so of course we're going to go through it. I would like to clarify that what is contained in our proposal is also a general tightening of access to rental. There is a need for a clear tightening of the general access to hiring by temporary employment agencies, and we also consider that temporary work should lead to the suspension of the access to the rental. Today's ability to hire workers of a so-called temporary nature creates many grey zones and abuses. That's why it's one of the things that we're looking at. We also want to clarify the boundary between rental and construction. We have proposed a new provision specifying the limit between lease-in and contract prices. Infringements of the lessee’s rules may involve increased circumvention of... [[The President clubs]] It's going so fast today!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e168	Emma Watne – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e174	Just as the Council of State now replied to me, you will probably, when you tighten up the rules of rental, be met with circumventions of the legislation. We are already seeing massive circumvention of the legislation that already exists. The reports we have seen through the media and consultation responses are, in practice, poorly hidden threats from the NHO and the employers' side that they will find ways to circumvent laws and regulations in the future. What will the Council of State do to stop these circumventions, so that stricter rules do not just become fine words on paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e181	As I said before, we propose a provision that clarifies and indicates the boundary between the rental and the contract. If it poses an increased risk of circumvention of rentals, where rentals are described as entrepreised or manning centre prices, the law should, of course, clarify the limits better than it currently does. Among other things, we have Look at that proposal by the majority in the Fuugner Committee, which has already been at the hearing, in the proposal that we have sent out. It is clear that this law will be passed, as it has been sent out at the hearing, and it will also be followed up by the supervisory authorities we have, inter alia. The Labour Inspectorate, which follows any violation of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e186	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e191	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Before the election, we were told that it was the turn of ordinary people. What we've learned now is that it was the turn of ordinary people to clear their wallet. While the state floods incomes and keeps setting new records on the amount of sweeping in from month to month, the wallets fade to ordinary people and businesses. A few days ago, VG met three families at Raufoss who noticed how crowded it has become. The estimate shows that an average family will have an increased cost of about 50000: It's electricity, fuel, food and interest – and other things go up as well. As one of them says, ‘We feel a little tricked by the ‘Vedumen’. If the gas went up to 20, they would hit the table. They say it's common people's turn. He's been tricking us." Before the election, the Central Party said that you could not sit in a government that received petrol and diesel prices of more than 20 kroner per litre. We have had over 27 kroner, and in addition we have increased the fees on fuel. Business too is bleeding heavily. Everyone is talking about stable business frameworks, but it's far from it now. Steintransport AS is in Kragerø. They operate with heavy mass displacement, they operate with water and sewerage rehabilitation. They have 50 years' work plus hired staff. So you could get extra diesel costs of $5 million. NOK, in addition, there are salary increases of almost 1 million. kr. They fear the future, and they fear the workplaces. How can the Central Party and the Government defend that the oil country Norway does not lift a finger to help drivers and businesses, when Sweden cuts fees and does it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e205	We're going to go in and look at the numbers of a normal family, I'm actually going through the numbers. If you look at the payroll now, you have a frame of about 3.7 pst. So let's take a family that's left with a 1 million income. kr. How does it turn out? Yes, by 3.7 pst. get another NOK 37 000, that's point No. one. If you take the mean of the interest rate increase that is calculated for this year, it's approx. 13 000 kroner for a family that has 3.4 million. Indebtedness. That's roughly the interest rate. If we add the increased cost of electricity, fuel and food and look at the calculation, what's the calculation? Then an average family will be left with approx. NOK 14 700 more to cover other expenses. One of the important things in the Norwegian model is that we also have a strong trade union movement, and we have strong business organisations that have responsible and good pay settlements. This means that even after three major crises, which we are now in – first the coronary crisis, then the commodity crisis, so the terrible war we now see – the figure is that a normal family gets real wage growth this year. It is good that Norwegian families can expect little more than interest, fuel, food and electricity in this crisis. The aim of this government is for workers around Norway to experience that the government is constantly working to improve their daily lives for those who go to work, those who are in activity. Then there's one more thing, and that's that a lot more are at work. What the numbers now show is that during this year it could be about. 70,000 more people coming to work. For them, the increase in wealth really gets a lot better. One of the most important jobs we do — both in the Stortinget and in the government — is to make sure that more people get to work, that more people get security for their job, and that people get real pay growth for a very worrying time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e212	It is very unlikely that it will cover the increased costs, and it also showed the economist who has gone through this calculation. It is good that Norway has low unemployment, and it is important that it continues, but the question is how long it will continue if the government does not intend to do anything for business. A lot of companies are now struggling in the transport sector, in the bakery sector, and in the industry there are major challenges; there are power bills that are sky-high. Nothing has been done to support business. Wages and salaries are, of course, expensive, and we see that all companies that depend on fuel are now calling out warnings about what can happen. You're experiencing more expensive inputs, and this comes too many businesses on top of a coronary crisis where you've lost a lot of money. How long will the government sit and watch that business is now going into a very serious situation where many jobs can be lost, and where the economy of ordinary people is also weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e221	The premise of the question is completely wrong, that the government is watching. We have close dialogue with business, we are taking action to secure business. And the reality description of Listhaug, that, in sum, there are now many more businesses than before that can end, is fortunately not right either. It's very dramatic for the companies that are going bankrupt, and it's obviously a goal that you should help as much as possible, but if you look at the bankruptcy figures this year, it's 851 in week 15. That's the 2022s. If we go back to 2019 – the year before the pandemic, and also when the Progress Party put in government – the same figure was at the same time 1,223. So despite the violent crisis we're in, there's fewer companies going bankrupt now. The government follows the situation extremely carefully, and some of the most important things we do are, among other things. that we have strong trade unions and strong business organisations that find good solutions together, and that we conduct an economic policy that makes it safe, stable, and that we dampen the great results we see around us in the world, which are demanding for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e228	There will be follow-up questions – first Hans Andreas Limi.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e233	The government announced in its additional position to the State budget for 2022 that the CO 2 tax would be increased to NOK 2 000 per tonne by 2030, i.e. So almost a triple. The majority in the United Kingdom have joined it, and the Minister of Finance has repeated this message on various occasions. As early as 2022, the fees were increased by 22 pst. Can the Minister of Finance explain the consequences of a tripling of the CO 2 tax on the pump price of petrol and diesel, and what will be the result of increased costs for both commercial and private cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e246	The Central Party and the Workers' Party are concerned when we are going to manage to bring down Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, is that people who have normal income, who make between 500,000 and 600 000 kroner, are going to experience that, through the transition, they are also left with better purchasing power. I think one of the creepiest things about climate policy is if most people experience this going beyond their everyday lives, because then the support will go down. That's what's also very good about the years, that even in this crisis, it looks like we have real wage growth. In 2016, there was a real wage decrease. It looks like many of the basics can go well. In the charging policy, it was the government that did when we came in, that we reduced the electricity charge, we reduced the traffic insurance charge, we reduced the user charge, we increased the commuting discount, and we reduced the ferry prices – just to do actions that could help people in their everyday lives. We put the tax rates down in a way that made people who had lower than average income experience a lower tax burden when the Senter Party and the Workers' Party rule, than when the Right and Advance Party ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e255	Hans Andreas Limi – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e261	I did not get an answer to my question about what this triple means, what it means for petrol and diesel prices in the future. The Minister of Finance indicated that the user charge was adjusted down at the turn of the year. It was reduced, but in total the CO 2 tax was increased, because it was not a 100 pst. compensation. The progress party received a government approval to compensate for an increase in the CO 2 fee of 100 pst. in the case of reduced user charges, i.e. kroner. Can the Minister of Finance guarantee that, over the next three years, the user fee will be reduced in crowns, correspondingly increased CO 2 tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e275	What's a little interesting now is that the party that criticized me most to reduce the user fee and the electricity charge was Right, the most preferred partner of the Progress Party. I also notice today that there are some challenges in relations. In our tax system, we are going to make a scheme in which people who have ordinary income and average income in total get lower taxes and taxes. We have said, in terms of both electricity and fuel taxes, that it is a goal for the government that we should cut. We have also done this – if the representative sees the sum of what they did on the electricity charge – a strong cut. It was absolutely necessary; it was absolutely right. It was also quite right for us to cut the user fee as we did, because we thought it had a damping effect and made it easier for people who depend on the car around in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e282	Then we move on to the next main question. I have reason to believe that the Council of State can stand in its place – he needs some training, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e287	That's absolutely right. Over the last decades, economic and social differences have increased in Norway. The richest pull away, and the wealth concentrates on ever fewer hands. At the same time, more people are struggling to make ends meet. Today, 115,000 young people grow up in poor families. When the differences become too big, trust in society also weakens. In particular, there should be a cross of thought when we have now left a pandemic where handling was completely dependent on the very strong trust we have in Norway. Trust and strong communities are also important in times of uncertainty, now that we are experiencing wars in the neighbourhood and rising prices of important goods. Yesterday came the report of the Corona Commission. It showed us that the coronary crisis has increased inequalities in Norway. Low income groups and immigrants are the ones that have lost the most. At the same time, Norway received tens of billionaires in the same period. The Commission writes: ‘It will require long-term efforts to correct these imbalances and prevent the pandemic from leading to lasting deeper dividing lines in the Norwegian society.’ The big differences are a social problem. What measures will the government take in the revised national budget in three weeks to help reduce differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e301	It is an incredibly important issue the representative Kaski is now lifting, because some of the glue in Norway is that there are small differences. Of course, it's important for the families who are poor, who are poor, but it's important to all of us. We have noted the importance of Norway being a society of high trust in the context of the Korona crisis. I think some of the glue for trust are small differences. We also note that there are fewer conflicts in Norway than in many other countries. Once again, I think some of the reasons there are less differences. The biggest key to bringing down the differences is to get more in work. What's really amazing after the three crises we've been through, and are in the middle of it, is that there's never been as many people in work in Norway as it is today. There have never, ever, been more people in Norway who can go to work tomorrow than it is now. It's amazing. Being able to get more people to work, away from being a recipient, into a contribution role, is the most important tool — and a well-organised and good labour market. Then there are these more targeted measures, which are often more patchy, but which can of course also help, but it is the labour market that is the most important. Then there are some measures that Kari Elisabeth Kaski and the Center Party and the Workers' Party agreed on in the budget, which we think are right. We have a lot of universal benefits. We believe that it is an objective to, for example: nursery prices, the type of prices, shall not become too high. There will be free SFO for the first class from the fall, and something has been granted to dental health. There are many of the kind of individual measures that are good, that are right, but the most important, and what is most positive now, is that professional participation is on its way up, and that never before has more people been in work. It's job number one: make sure we get even more jobs, because it's best for those who get jobs, and it's best for us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e310	I thank you for your answer. Although more people are working, differences continue to rise in Norway. Increased efforts are needed both in the short and long term in order not only to prevent the differential growth, but also to reverse the curve and bring down the differences. That is why I am asking for concrete measures from the government in the future that will strengthen that effort. In Norway, we now also note the increased prices of both food and energy. We also know that there are especially those who have the least, who notice it most strongly. The government has spent a lot of time in the last few weeks warning against increased public expenditure to avoid increased inflation and interest rate increases, even though it is known that increased interest rates will be socially biased. We have other alternatives: increased taxes on the wealthiest of the country will dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy, and it will also have far better distribution effects than increased interest rates on people's mortgages. Will the government come up with a proposal to increase taxes for the richest country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e319	A good thing about Norway is that we usually deal with budgets only twice a year — the main budget and then a small revision in the spring. Now there have been a little too many laps during the year, and we have to try to get back to normal as soon as possible. I think that's good for everyone. What is also good is that it is stability in tax rates that we adopt them once a year. If we make too many changes to taxes and taxes during the year, it becomes very expensive and unpredictable for private traders and individuals, and there will also be increased public expenditure. So the main choices in terms of taxes and taxes, we have to deal with the ordinary state budgets, and I hope it is possible to get good solutions together with SV also for the autumn. One of the things we've been doing together last fall is that everyone who has less income than NOK 750,000 is now experiencing a lower tax. All those with higher incomes contribute a little more. We also did a lot of geographic grips. So the sum of the measures we took in relation to the state budget gave a better social and geographical distribution. So we have to work together step by step.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e326	There will be follow-up questions – first Kirsti Bergstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e331	I would like to follow up with a question to the Minister of Labour. The economic differences have increased over time, and those that have at least are hit hardest. The Hurdal Platform states that ‘Treasure is to be reduced, especially that affecting families with children’s children’. It is a very important objective when we know that there are 115,000 young people growing up in persistent low incomes and that living in poverty is a huge burden, with stress, unforeseeableness and inadequacy. It goes beyond the care that parents should give to their children, and it puts a heavy burden on everyday life. Yesterday the report of the Corona Commission, which says that economic and social differences have grown. Then I wonder what kind of initiative we can expect the Council of State to take to combat economic and social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e336	The representative asks a very important question. Over time, there has been an increase in inequality, both economically and socially, in Norway. The government will pursue a policy that reduces differences and not reinforces them. As the Minister of Finance said, the most important steps are to reduce differences in getting people to work, have universal and good welfare arrangements and have a fairer and redistributive tax policy, which has been pursued. The most important thing to reduce poverty, including in families with children, is to get more people to work. The workline is very central to the government’s efforts to combat child poverty. More than half of the children in the low-income group have a migrant background, and good integration work is essential to help parents get into work and lift families out of low-income.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e343	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e349	I share the Council's view of work and of an offensive to have people in work, but also those who must have their income from elsewhere must be able to live on that income. I noticed in particular one area that I know the Council of State is very well aware of from its role as rapporteur in Bergen, but which was not mentioned, namely increased rates of social assistance. In the beautiful hometown of the Council of State, the City Council, acting on the initiative and pressure of the SV, has decided to increase the rates of economic social assistance, and it has produced very good results in that way that people get a better overview of their situation. If you have little, it is very important to be able to plan and reduce poverty. Then I wonder if the Council of State believes that the policy she herself has pursued as rapporteur in Bergen is a good policy to reduce economic and social differences in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e354	In Bergen, too, one of the most important things we do is to develop jobs and get people to work. Then it is that the Social Services Act gives the right to financial benefits from the municipality to persons who cannot provide their living through work or through economic rights in other schemes. It's very important for them. It is clear that the municipalities have an autonomous obligation to ensure that the rates paid are appropriate to local conditions and that a discretionary and individual assessment is made when measuring social benefits under the Social Services Act. I want to clarify that, and I think it is particularly important that the municipalities are aware of this in a situation where we now have increased expenditure on necessary living.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e359	Kirsti Bergstø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e364	It is positive that the Council of State emphasises Community solutions and well-being as so important to combat differences. It's just that we have a well-being to meet our needs, which allows us to be more like in our society. For most of us, the welfare meeting is a meeting with Nav. For most of us, there is also a good meeting, but we have seen a social security scandal – a Nav scandal – where many have been misjudged for social security abuse. Cleaning and uplifting are needed for those who have been exposed to it. The Council of State has said in the past that the arrangements for compensation work well, but when we see that many people do not get compensation or get very little despite being imprisoned incorrectly, I wonder if the Council of State still believes that the upliftment is good enough today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e369	There is no doubt that the scandals we have seen have been burdensome for those who have experienced this, and we have to make sure that we get cleaned up in a good way. What I think is important is that we do, and what I also know is that SV shares the opinion that we must have a trust reform in Nav that enables us to rely on the professionalism and competence of many of Nav's employees. To the question: this is with respect to notifying under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, so I'm going to be a little careful about going into the matter of compensation. Fortunately, we have made sure to repay what has been done, including with interest. I'm doing what I can to avoid similar happening again in the future, and that's the most important job I have in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e376	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e381	I have a question for the Minister for Climate and Environment. Norway has notified to the United Nations a climate target of 50–55 pst. reduction by 2030 and it is legally binding. We also have an agreement on climate change with the EU on how this will be implemented, covering the entire Norwegian economy. It was concluded by the previous government – fortunately; I am not sure if today’s government would have entered into such an agreement. The government of the Hurdal platform has also set a target of 55 pst. reduction in Norway by 2030. The left has the same in its programme and agrees with this. But here too the confusion begins: what does this goal really mean? In an interview with E24 on 6 April, the Council of State compared the goal of the government with the Danish target of 70 pst. reduction by 2030. That is right: Denmark has set itself a target that goes beyond their obligation under the Paris Agreement with the EU. The difference is that in Denmark, the 70 % target is adopted in the Parliament, it is written into their climate legislation, and it is actively negotiated on how to implement it. In the case of the Norwegian 55 % target for which the government is in favour, there is greater uncertainty as to what it implies. In interviews, the Council of State has called it a conversion target, it is referred to as an ambition. Then my question is, what is the government's 55% reduction in emissions by 2030? How does the government think this will be implemented? And how do they intend to implement it in cooperation with the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e394	This is an important question, and I thank the representative Elvesuen for asking it. There's a very precise review of the history here. It is true that Norway’s declared targets to the UN, which were notified by the previous government and supported by a large majority on the Stortinget, and which have also been incorporated into the Climate Change Act, say 50–55 pst. in close cooperation with the EU, of which use includes, inter alia: the EU quota system. That's what Norway's official target is all over the world. It exists, we work with the Storting to implement, and there are going to be many meeting points in the implementation of that goal, for example. In view of the forthcoming state budget. There we have also said that we are now going to have a climate budget, where we are going to document what action we are taking to get which emissions, and how they are distributed over time. Then the government of the Hurdal platform has said in addition to and at the top of that goal – compatible, but at the top – that we set a target of 55 pst. in the entire Norwegian economy. This means that while we use the quota system as the most important instrument in what we call the quota sector, we will also open up additional instruments. So we will not leave the half of the economy that is in the quota sector, i.e. heavy industry, etc. exclusively to the quota market – we will also ensure that some innovation and innovation take place in Norway, because we think it is good for the further development of a green, forward-looking Norwegian industry. So that's a more ambitious goal. I have also correctly described it as a conversion target. This is a more demanding target than the one laid down in the Climate Action Communication, and there is something the government wants to achieve as a national target. There, I have compared both Denmark, Germany and other countries — especially northern European countries — in the EU that set a national target at the top of what they are formally obliged to do through their reporting to the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e405	I still hear only a wish and an ambition, not a plan – a direct implementation plan for how to achieve this, because that is what is essential for us to get there. I'm worried about other areas too, because we're going to cover all areas of the economy. It is also in the agreement with the European Union. Among other things, we have an emission of 1,2 million tonnes from land use change that we are also obliged to reduce. Last week, the OECD presented a progress report on Norway’s action on climate and environment. One of its criticisms is linked to Norway’s land use. Bit-by-bit degradation of pristine nature to agriculture, forestry, road development and construction leads to an increase in the number of endangered species. At the same time, we have a municipal minister who will allow for the degradation of the coastal zone of ants and cultural memories. Does the Council of State agree that we can get into this legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e410	That's really two questions. First, it's what we do to implement the cuts in the quota sector. There I would say that it is not least oil and gas production, where we have to do what the industry itself has said and has already agreed with the Stortinget – to cut half of its emissions by 2030. Then they do their part of the job. So it's the heavier industry, the process industry, where you have a lot of big single-point emissions. There will be, for example: transition from natural gas to hydrogen, more electrification and substitution of fossil reducing agent by non-fossil — whether inert anodes, as they are called, or hydrogen, for example. – could provide significant opportunities for large-scale cut-offs. When it comes to land use, I think it's a very central part of this. There I think the OECD report says very much wisely and sensibly that we need to have a tighter policy on natural use, but it can also be done more decentralised than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e417	There will be follow-up questions – first Sveinung Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e423	I would like to ask a follow-up question to the Minister of Finance. The finance minister also spoke about the climate target in March and said in Political Quarter that he hoped we would reach the climate target. So he later elaborated on the NRK debate that it wasn't so important for him personally about a achieved climate goal or not. We have a current climate target that is well described by the Minister for Climate and Environment, and we have a current climate plan to achieve it. The most important instrument in that plan was a tripling of the CO 2 tax. It was the Minister of Finance, in the hands of opposition politicians, strongly opposed, but now, when I belong to the Minister of Climate and Environment, I can't interpret him in any other way than that one should do even more. The question of whether the Minister of Finance is to increase the CO 2 tax even more in the future and not least to introduce it in those sectors where today one has a derogation, i.e. the quota sector, is now saying to the Minister of Climate and Environment that we need additional tools for the industry on land. It does not have a national CO 2 tax today, and if one is going to cut 55 pst. where, it is difficult to see how to do so without imposing such a charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e439	What is important for the Central Party-Work Party government is that we should pursue a climate policy that does not contribute to increasing social and geographical differences. When I listen to the left, it often seems like you've forgotten that dimension. Therefore, it was important for us when we increased the CO 2 tax last autumn, that measures were taken such as: reduced user charges, did something about the cut in the commuting deduction, that we were cut at ferry prices and made sure that the transport costs for people who are totally dependent on transport did not go up in the way left had put up in its alternative budget proposal. There is no wish or objective for the Centre Party-Work Party administration to increase the fees. Our goal is to bring down CO 2 emissions, while in the Left there was one mainly all the time – increased charges. Looking at the budget put forward by the Centre Party and the Labour Party, there were a number of different measures to create activity, nourishment and reduce emissions – without just pointing to the levy, as left has done far too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e450	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e455	My question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. I want to dig a little further into this with the climate targets, because in the Hurdal platform it is black on white that Norway's climate target is 55 pst. cut across the economy by 2030, i.e. without the use of allowance trading or other flexible mechanisms. The Council of State now states that there is really only a national internal working tool at the top of what is Norway's commitment to climate change, and it seems that the government has an internal seminar on what kind of binding climate objectives they are going to pursue. Before Easter, the government presented a supplement to the energy message. There we refer to that climate objective, not the new one. Before Easter, the Central Party parliamentary leader opened up climate change targets or set up quota mechanisms. The government has not asked the Storting to adopt the new climate target; that is the old goal Norway has officially committed itself to in the Climate Change Act. Last week's Question Time, Prime Minister Støre said that the reinforced goal is only meant to underline the government's ambitions, but that the government has no plans to report it to the United Nations. That is why I was even more confused when I read on Monday a letter from the Minister for Climate and Environment to the Energy and Environment Committee at Stortinget. In response to an SV proposal to submit our reinforced climate target to the UN, the Council of State writes that all countries after Glasgow were invited to consider strengthening their climate targets by 2022, this is a call that Norway will naturally follow, and that the government will return to this later this year. Then the question is, is this another climate target? Is the increased climate target to be submitted to the UN at all times in the Hurdal platform? Or is the reinforced climate goal still more a rhetorical symbol to show that the government has ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e468	I am happy that it is drilled in the question, because then I can also help clarify it. So this is how I also replied to the representative, Elvestuen, that the government is serious about 55 pst. Cut across the entire Norwegian economy. That is our clear political objective. We don't have a seminar on that, we had that at Hurdal, we were done with that. It's in the government statement, it's underlined that that's the goal we're headed for in Norway, and we're going to plan to achieve that goal. Then we have concluded a very comprehensive and, in my view, very wise climate agreement with the European Union, where we have a number of instruments that we implement together with the European Union. What is now happening in what is called the Ready for the 55 package, taxonomy – the whole EU green gift package is also a gift package to Norway, because it helps to raise many of the new green industries, where we can grow up. This means that the demand for carbon capture and storage, battery technology, emission-free steel and emission-free aluminium, sustainable mining, etc. will go up sharply. It also provides opportunities for cutbacks in Norway and contributions to cutouts that are much larger than without that agreement. Because of that, we have said that now the declared climate target is what we have. So it's true that we and all the other countries in Glasgow agreed that by 2022 we would assess whether the targets we have and have reported are in line with the reinforced 1.5 degree target. We'll do that assessment, and yes, we'll go to Stortinget with it when we've done it. However, we are initially very high, the reported target is in international context at European level, and a number of other countries are not at European level in declared targets. So it's not necessarily that it means that we have to sharpen our official goal, but we're going to review it in the course of the year, and that's going to be known to the Stortinge when that work is done in the course of 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e477	The problem is that the Minister for Climate and Environment does not exactly help to clarify what is Norway's climate goal when one day writing to Stortinget that one should consider stepping up climate targets to the UN by 2022, while a week ago Prime Minister Støre stood here and said that the government had no plans to tighten up the climate target and report it to the UN. It is difficult to understand that the climate objective of the government is binding and that it is taken seriously when it is not taken into account in the supplementary communication to the energy plan, it is not proposed to amend the Climate Act for the Stortinget, nor has the government presented their climate plan, which they promised to come forward quickly, which gives operators – business, industry, also the green industries – predictability of what is Norway’s committed climate objectives and climate policy. This is the question to the Council of State: When will the government present that climate plan in order to provide predictability, and – not least – will it then be based on the Solberg government's climate objectives or this intensified climate objective across the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e484	The government is going to rule by the government's climate goals, 55 pst. across the entire Norwegian economy, and we will share this with the Stortinget through the state budget processes in the years to come. There is also a climate plan, but we believe that something even more important than a climate plan from my department is that the government in its great communication to the Stortinget, that is, the state budget and the budgetary process, shows how the climate target is going to permeate all sectors. That is why we are now working on the explosion of a climate-emission budget management system that enables us to dispose of all sectors – transport, business, industry, agriculture, transport, fish – according to some strict and clear climate targets and demonstrate how we believe they should be achieved. It will be primarily through the state budget, both what is coming, and what is coming in the years to come, so that we show how we are going to be. There will be a clear communication of our own in relation to the objectives of each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e491	It opens for follow-up questions – first Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e496	It is important to know how we are based, it is quite obvious, but I would just like to stress that it is very important for the actors, for business and for industry to know what climate objectives they are going to meet, and what climate policy – as the government has said – is to be presented in the climate plan – that comes in the years to come. It is precisely the unpredictability that the government has now created, by saying that there is an additional objective at the top of a commitment, which is primarily an internal work tool. The Solberg Government concluded a binding climate agreement with the EU. We strengthened our climate goals in cooperation with the EU. We reported it to the United Nations. We presented a climate plan that showed tonnes by tonne how to meet our obligations. What the government is doing now is actually to withdraw climate policy in time by not giving predictability to the actors. Once again, the question is, When does the government's climate plan come?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e505	The climate plan we voted in favour of, and for which there was massive support in Stortinget, it is there. But it's not ambitious enough, because it was at a lower level than what's now in the Climate Act, so it has to be tightened up anyway, and so we're working on it across all sectors. This means that instead of creating new climate plans from my department and then there's a transport plan that says something completely different, this is to be integrated into the planning of all the sectors where there are emissions. That is what the new grip is, that is, that this should be an integrated governance system for the entire government's work in all sectors. If someone's wondering what the goal is, it's 55 pst. throughout the economy. Then I have to say again that it is very common in today's Europe. So we've joined Iceland in a collective European cooperation of 55 pst. the whole of Europe's economy. So a lot of rich industrialized countries say that we're going to do at least the average of it, we're not going to push it away on other and poorer countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e512	Marius Arion Nilsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e518	The OECD warns that Norway will not achieve its 2030 climate objectives. And where our civil partner Right before stood for a sensible climate policy with a focus on food control, where there was a basic understanding that the costs of climate policy must be kept under control, we now regrettably see that the Right proposes overambitious cut targets and extremely expensive climate measures, such as large-scale electrification and more than a triple of the CO 2 tax – twice as much as the envisaged level of Right. The government goes even further than this. The Progress Party has long warned against unnecessary high and strange climate targets that are not needed to meet Norway’s international commitments, and this reality now finally seems to have begun to rise to an increasing level. By this weekend we could, for example: read in the evening post at the head office that they are asking the government to abandon the curious goal of cutting 55 pst, where the entire emission cut is to be taken domestically. What I'm asking is whether the Council of State can explain how much more expensive the government's curious cutoff targets from the Hurdal platform are compared to the last cut-off goal of the Solberg government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e530	First of all, our international obligations, to which the representative refers, are that we should cut our economy. Our commitments relate to the Norwegian economy, and we have committed ourselves internationally to cutting 50-55 pst. of the whole of it. In the current filed plan, there is something we do in cooperation with the EU, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't. So we have to do it, but in cooperation with the European Union. In countries that are industrialised, like ours, where some of the low-hanging fruits have already been taken away, you have to get rid of those sectors that can be a little more demanding. We're not just going to 2030, as the representative knows, we're going to 2050 and a carbon-neutral future. Emissions shall be eliminated. They must be brought down where possible, and that means that future technology development requires that we dare to tackle these areas, for example: industry, where significant point emissions can now be reduced with technological developments in e.g. hydrogen, which adds to significant cut [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e537	Marius Arion Nilsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e542	It was not an answer to my question. There was no numerical fixing of the extra cost, and the answer worries me. Not only has the government chosen to set its own climate target, which, according to the OECD, will not be achieved and which is not anchored in the Stortinget, but the Council of State cannot even respond to the cost of achieving the target. It is tempting to conclude that the Workers' Party and the Centre have set themselves this goal of being ambitious in climate policy, without counting on what such a strange cut would mean neither for taxpayers, for value creation nor for Norwegian jobs. The latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change found that it is fully possible to halve global emissions at a cost of about $100 per tonne. Nevertheless, we see that the government and the other parties are in favour of measures that cost much more than this. I fear that the government has not understood that the path between good intentions and yellow vests can be short when residents and businesses experience that the authorities are unnecessarily challenging their everyday lives. When the OECD warns that the government will not achieve its specific climate objectives, and when it is fully possible to halve emissions at a cost of $100 per tonne, why does the government make climate policy significantly more expensive and difficult? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e553	Firstly, the Minister of Finance has explained well that we are committed both to achieving the climate goals and to ensuring that the whole country is put to use and to think fairly distributed. We have taken fair distribution, both geographically and socially, into climate policy in a way that I believe the previous government has done far too little, precisely because we want to avoid unnecessary resistance to climate policy. We also want to make all the aspects and opportunities of climate policy, such as greener and cleaner transport for all, available throughout the country. We also want to ensure that Norwegian businesses take positions in the market that is now developing with force, such as just demand, for example. very low footprints on natural interference and climate emissions in production. It pays to be part of this process. We don't have a strange goal. We have exactly the same goal as all countries that look like us have – in Europe and the neighbouring countries – all of which are at about the same level. 55 pst. or partly above, such as Denmark does.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e562	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e567	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. Putin's brutal war leads to millions of people fleeing. People are fleeing internally in Ukraine, and more and more refugees are fleeing from Ukraine. The Progress Party has always been clear that refugees are being helped best in their neighbourhoods, and now there are people fleeing in our neighbourhoods, and then Norway must and must set up. The Progress Party has long been concerned that many of those currently on the run can be exploited by criminals and others who do not have good intentions. That is one of the reasons why the Progress Party wants a border control, like several other countries, but unfortunately the government has said no to it. We also see that the settlement is very slow. Last week it was possible to read that only 173 Ukrainians were then resident. At the same time, we have municipalities in Norway with open arms, which have vacant dwellings, kindergartens and school places, and are ready to help people on the run, but inertia in the system and a large bureaucracy mean that many have not been registered. This particularly affects the children, who have been through a traumatic flight but who are not getting right in kindergarten or school. It is possible to live before you have completed the full screening and registration. Several local politicians are now addressing this, and then my question is to the Council of State: Will she propose that Ukrainians can be relocated before they are fully surveyed, so that the children can start in kindergarten and school immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e576	I think it is quite strong to experience how strongly there is a willingness to settle in Norwegian municipalities, where those who have blacked out – by all the municipalities that have been asked to settle – have either said yes to the number that IMDi has requested them, or have actually said that they can accept even more. I share the impatience that many people have in getting started even faster with the settlement, and fortunately, part of the bottlenecks that have been present has begun to get in place. It's been about registration and simplified screening, and we've established a simplified screening of the refugees that have arrived. The pace is now moving up rapidly, and it is expected to go up even faster. Then I have a close and good dialogue with the municipalities and have a weekly meeting with Norwegian municipalities. I also have a close dialogue with the KS metropolitan network and with KS as such to ensure that we get to settle. And to the question that has been asked, we have among other things. entered into an agreement with Oslo to settle 200 people without screening, which they can get. Then I would like to say that one of the strong advantages of Norwegian integration policy has been that we have also been able to spread housing around the country, and that we have a voluntary-based system where we have a good dialogue with the municipalities about this. We have now reduced the request process, which usually takes from March to December, to a few short weeks, and we agree with the municipalities that we should be quick to respond to the requests that come out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e587	I record that the Council of State, like the Minister of Finance, chooses not to answer the questions asked in the Questionnaire. There's a reason why we have the question right now, that's to get concrete questions and answers. Therefore, I can try another challenge: the NRK could recently report on Ukrainian Mira speaking Norwegian, who has studied in Norway, previously worked in Norway, but who had travelled back to Ukraine. But when the war broke out, she traveled to Norway again. She now has a job offer, but when she was going to get a work permit, the police did not know how to handle such an application, and she has now waited for two months, if I am not completely wrong, to get the work permit. It makes no sense for people who have a job to be refused work because of red tape. Denmark had the same challenge, but in Denmark it was decided that as soon as you are registered, you can start working. UDI in Norway says no to that. Why does the government not want people who have jobs to start working?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e596	I perceive that I answered the very specific question, whether you could live without screening. So I said, confirm that we're doing this with agreements with the municipalities, and an example is, for example, Oslo Municipality, with 200 settlements without prior identification. So the representative now asks a question about having a job. It is that once you have been registered and granted collective temporary protection, you can also start working in Norway if you have received a job. That's the way it is for all the refugees who have registered. But it emphasizes the importance of everyone registering, so that they can be granted collective temporary protection and with it also obtain work permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e603	Mudassar Kapur – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e609	Over 13,000 Ukrainian refugees have come to Norway, and municipalities have prepared to receive many in a short time. It has already been explained that there are too few residents, although more and more are allocated to a municipality. This affects those who want to work, and children who are going into a local environment, and it takes longer to get into school and kindergarten. The Labour Party Town Council in Oslo is among those who have warned that the settlement is too slow. NOAS has done the same thing. At the beginning of March, the right sought an overall review of the laws and regulations that had to be amended as a result of the critical situation that could arise. The government sent out proposals for legislative changes at the hearing before Easter, but had this been done earlier, obstacles could have been removed earlier. The answers we received from the Council of State in the previous round show that there are a number of plans, but what will the Council of State actually do to make progress in the settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e614	I share the impatience associated with getting a quick settlement in place. There have been some bottlenecks, including: related to registration and monitoring, which is now being done in a completely new way. In the past, it had to be consulted to register. Now there are opportunities in many places in the country. UDI has done a very good job of getting new ways of doing this. When it comes to monitoring, you have dropped from what is normally 24 questions, to 3 questions, which makes it start faster. We now expect them to get out much faster, and so we can really get speed on the settlement. For every day that goes, it's getting more and more. All those who have been successfully registered and surveyed by the UDI have now been selected for the municipalities. We have a very close dialogue. These include: agreement between us and the municipalities that they should reply as soon as possible. The drama, for example, with which I had dialogue last week, answered in less than one day. [[President clubs]] We now expect those people to get out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e619	It's a shame to have to club when the drama is mentioned, but we have to stick to the time of speech. Mudassar Kapur – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e626	Thanks for the answer. The Council of State points mainly to two points: one is the bottlenecks on a responsibility which belongs primarily to the Minister of Justice. But I think the government might have had a great advantage of having good dialogue also internally, so that you don't become bottlenecks for each other's important tasks. The second point here is that you have had a weekly dialogue with the municipalities. Well, the dialogue that's been so far, and the recipe that you've used so far, has been slow. That's why my question was to the Council of State, and I hope she can answer a little more specifically this time. What will the Council of State do to advance the settlement process?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e635	We're also going to put forward a bill that will make it possible to simplify local authorities, so that this is going to be done quickly and easily. We're just going to keep getting people out. We're going to take all of the people that are fully registered and surveyed, and search out concrete municipalities. That process shall proceed without hindrance. That's the most important thing we do. It was mentioned here that it is approx. 15 220 arrivals from Ukraine. A lot of them live in private, are already in a municipality and have a job and similar. We have requested 35,000 to Norwegian municipalities, so when we are now to settle, not all the 35,000 will be settled as long as they have not come to Norway. But the pace is going up, and I share that impatience very strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e642	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e647	We've been through tough times lately, and we've had to spend more money. The government has increased the use of oil by nearly 60 billion dollars. kr since the adopted State budget. It's as much as we spent on the entire defense in 2018. The pressures in the economy are now record high, with risks of overheating and high interest rates. This government has shown that it likes to go to huge tax increases to make the budgets go up. Together with SV, the government increased taxes and taxes by 8.6 billion. NOK 2022. More than 200000 Norwegians with low incomes less than 300000 DKK have received increased taxes compared to the Solberg Government's proposals. Ordinary people with mortgages get in these days by letter from the bank that the interest is set up. This would be an extra charge of several thousand dollars. In his first post here today, the Minister of Finance put up quite a number of figures that show that a normal family will still end up going in plus because of that real wage growth, but then it is important that taxes do not increase. My question is therefore whether the Minister of Finance would like to take this opportunity today to guarantee that he will not propose increased taxes in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e654	The revised national budget comes when it comes. As I said in an answer earlier today, I believe that some of the strength in Norway is that it should be as predictable as possible, and that we should get away from having constant budget rounds in Stortinget, which we have had in recent years. It's a sign that there's a lot going on around us. It's been necessary, but it's not favorable. Not least in the field of taxation, there should be maximum stability and there should not be many changes within a year. There may be some adjustments, but not major changes. That's really the main answer. Of course, there may be some adjustments in the revised national budget, but the main lines of the State budget are going to be fixed. So it's important to remember when we're talking about increasing oil money use and the measures we've been doing this year: what are those measures? The first point is the corona. We almost forgot that it was omicron and the whole discussion that was at the beginning of January. Then there was income security, secure businesses, put in measures, and we did it the exact same way that the Right did it, and made measures for it. The second point is stream. There have been exceptionally high electricity prices, and the government believes it is quite right and fair that we compensate people, make sure that people are safe and that people do not get too high a power bill – therefore that compensation. There we also have an income page. The last one is Ukraine. It's really scary to think that for each of the heads we spend on accepting a Ukrainian refugee, we have to cut another place. If one set it up against another that way in the supplementary proposition that comes around Ukraine, we think it could be conflict-making. I'm glad that the Right also supports that proposition, and it was announced early. One important thing is to be able to create broad solutions, especially with regard to major immigration challenges, as we now have. I and the government have meant and believe that it is very unwise if you put so and so many billion more to refugees and cut e.g.. to ambulances, police or other important welfare measures around Norway. We're going to present a responsible and good budget statement in the RNB.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e667	I thank you for your answer. We agree with many of the descriptions given by the Minister of Finance, because it has been absolutely necessary to spend more money. That's also why we were out very early and informed that we, for example. were to support the proposition made by the government about Ukraine and to deal with what has happened as a consequence there, including here in Norway. But I have also agreed when members of the government have shown the need for moderation, shown the need not to spend more money than needed now, just to avoid overheating the economy and to hold back when needed. The Finance Minister himself has also stated that we need to hold back. The Prime Minister has done it. He recently said in the VG that parts of Hurdal's promises can actually be put on hold. On the other hand, we see very high expectations from quite a number of the Minister of Finance's own party colleagues, among others. on the commitments made by Hurdal on agricultural incomes or the desire for a strong cut in fuel taxes. And we're going to find a lot of examples like this. The question to the Minister of Finance is, will you also go back on some of their promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e678	When we got into the government offices, we started going into a part of the construction projects that the right has started. I think the right must have forgotten the word ‘moderation’ as they were responsible for some of those construction projects, for example. in the government quarter, where an architectural approach was actively chosen to tear down the Prime Minister's office at the top of the Høyblock. Well-functioning, great premises they actively chose to demolish. If we start looking at the cost of the project in the government quarter, they're huge. It doesn't seem like the Right has once thought about the basic doctrine they had before, about moderation, moderation, holding back public money. That's what this government is going to do. We have also notified it in the case of NTNU, the Minister of Higher Education was out and notified of it, that we should look at costs and bring down costs in the construction sector. We're going to do more grips. We're busy with moderation. Not least because we are going to spend the important money on ordinary people around the whole of Norway, for example. part of the major public construction projects to experience a completely different economy with today's government than when it was Astrup, Sanner and Solberg that ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e685	There will be follow-up questions – Tina Bru.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e691	This is not a proper presentation at all. We actually took a lot of action when we were in government, just to save public expenditure. Many of those arrests have actually warned this government that they will go away, they will reverse – take the railway reform as an example. Also in the case of barley, we took more grips. We have done Design-to-Cost on several projects to keep costs down. So that's not a proper presentation. But I could imagine an answer to the question I asked. It was: the Workers' Party has announced that some of the promises from Hurdal must be put on hold, in the light of the situation in which we stand. That's a wise approximation. I think there's respect for saying something like that. My question is whether the Central Party is willing to say something of the same thing, and what promises on the Hurdal platform the Minister of Finance might think you can wait, in the light of the fact that we now need to show moderation and hold back on the use of money. Because there are many examples, such as: has the representative Lundteg been out and demanded more, much, all the way. What is the Minister of Finance's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e698	One of the most important promises in the Hurdal platform, what is it? Well, it's that everyday life for people is going to be better. The most important thing to do is get people to work. The fact that we've never had more people in work than we have now, that there's never been as many people who go to work as it is in Norway these days, is incredibly important. Of course, we need to constantly assess the different measures, including in a government platform, against what are the main challenges here and now. For example, the war in Ukraine was not a fact when we wrote the Hurdal platform. Some of the grips we're doing, what we're dealing with now, is that we're going to cut into part of what I'm going to call the decadent construction projects that Right started, that have been, from my point of view, out of control. Then I understand that it is a bit tiring for the Right that we say that, but thanks to the government change, we are going to spend less money on the government quarter than if the Right had moved on – unfortunately, too many steps have already been taken, and too many commitments have been made. This type of grip is going to be done by today's government, because it is also necessary to mitigate the activity of parts of the construction sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e707	The oral question procedure is now under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e721	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance. Question 4, from the representative Ingerd Schou to the Minister for Development, will be taken up by the representative Fredrik Holm. Questions 5 and 6 by Mr Bård Hoksrud and Mr André N. Skjelstad, respectively, to the Minister for Health and Health, have been withdrawn. Question 8, from the representative of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, will be taken up by the representative Emma Georgina Lind. Question 9, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e741	This question, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to Minister of Finance Trygve Slagsvold Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e746	I have a question for the Prime Minister that the Minister of Finance will answer, and that is to a great extent: ‘The Minister of State shall be the Head of Government and shall be the Head of Government of the Council of State. Minister of Finance Vedum, for whom the Prime Minister is responsible, is not willing to implement measures against the transport industry and the construction industry with regard to when they relate to the sky-high fuel prices. Has the Prime Minister intended to take responsibility for the many bankruptcies in which ordinary people lose their jobs, which can now come into these industries with a background in the sky-high fuel prices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e755	First of all, when a case is to be dealt with by the King of the Council of State, the whole government is behind the decision. However, the constitutional responsibility for the case lies with the Council of State, which heads the department promoting the case. Taxes and charges are the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I am therefore answering this question from the representative, Sve, on behalf of the entire government. It's going very well in the Norwegian economy, and we're in a boom. Activity is high, economic growth is strong, enterprises report labour supply problems and wages and price growth are increasing. The registered unemployment rate is approaching the lower levels from the high economic cycle before the financial crisis in 2008. I have also been in contact with many in the construction industry and I see many of the concerns and challenges facing the construction industry. Last night I received a call from an actor in the construction industry, and there was actually the main challenge for the company to get enough qualified people. When we look at the macroeconomic picture, there is nothing to suggest that we get a wave of bankruptcy and increased unemployment, as the representative suggests in his question. It is also the whole objective of the government's economic policy, which means that we should keep unemployment low, get more people in work, get employment up and, of course, also ensure that we have a living and good construction industry in the future, with both large and small actors. The premise of the question, which shows that there can be many bankruptcies where ordinary people lose their jobs, is a premise that fortunately does not match the bankruptcy figures we see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e768	Now it's so that it's not my statements. These are statements from, among others. The Director of NHO Logistics and Transport, who fears bankruptcy in the transport sector. LNF says the same thing. It's a price increase of over 11 pst. The same goes for MEF, that is, the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs. They're very concerned, and it's very likely that it can be very demanding for that industry in the future. Not least, I've also heard it from the Center Party's own people, a crisis in agriculture – in all areas, on both power and fuel. Before the election, Arnstad, the representative of the Central Party, said that it was totally inappropriate to sit in government if there was a price increase of more than 20 kroner per litre for fuel. Centrifuge peaks require Vedum to reduce the fuel and diesel charges. It was Per Olaf Lundtigen and the Ringsaker leader who thought the Minister of Finance had to be forward-looking. [[President clubs]] Can we see a finance minister who is more forward-looking when it comes to cutting fuel prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e775	Here's the main issue of the questions, which Sve was about at the beginning of his question, bankruptcy. The plant industry in particular has many small companies around Norway. It's a very important industry that creates a lot of jobs and a lot of activity. You have some big Norwegian players and some non-residents. When you look at the total bankruptcies, it's always scary to look at the large numbers, then the bankruptcies of week 15, so far this year, are on 851 bankruptcies for the entire Norwegian business life. When we compare it with week 15 in 2019, before the pandemic and the various crises, the number was 1,223. There's a much lower number of bankruptcies now than it was before the pandemic, and it's also much lower now than it was when the Progress Party had the Finance Minister. It doesn't help the individual who goes bankrupt, so we have to keep track of it, but it's important that we're aware of the numbers. It goes much better for many. Then of course, especially for many of the small operators in the construction industry, we have to make sure they get through this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e784	The most important thing now is to be forward-looking and see the situation as he is today. He's dramatic about the transport industry. The fuel prices are now sky high in relation to what they've had before, and they have contracts that are fixed. Only in my county, Møre and Romsdal, which is a large nutrient, export, and not least agricultural, receive a massive feedback from the agricultural industry that is highly sceptical. One also sees that the slaughtering stables rise enormously. Busengdal Transport, one of the largest construction companies in More and Romesdal, was out there and was very clear that there is a real danger here. The most important thing now is not to look back; it is to look forward and see what challenges the country is facing. I want to ask the question again: would we be able to see a forward-looking finance minister, Vedum, who is actually cutting fuel prices in a situation where we hoard hundreds of billions of extra dollars, and we have a business in the kneeling across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e793	We have to look at the situation here and now. It's very important when we're going to take different measures, that we see what the situation is like here and now. It's a very special situation. We've been through the three crises we've had. The very demanding thing for many who are in it, and many people are very concerned about it. But then we see that the big numbers show that there are never more people who have gone to work than now, and hopefully we can say in a month that there's another record with more people going to work. That's the target. Work is good, and idleness is the root of all evil. We also see, even with that concern – I know that uncertainty myself, because I talk a lot about the construction industry and have partly worked in the construction industry even when I was younger – that the number of bankruptcies does not go up. It's much lower than it was before 2022. It's good that it is. But of course we will have a continuous and close contact with the construction and transport industry. It's a very important industry with a lot of skilled actors and a lot of entrepreneurs, who aren't really the ones who love papers the most, but who are happy to do the job. Therefore, it is important that we maintain a close dialogue with them to see if new measures can be taken to ensure further operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e807	‘Government members have in several cases expressed fears that any maximum flow price of 50 øre/kWt will not give people an incentive to reduce electricity consumption. Is the same rationale behind the rejection of the reduction in fuel taxes, fears the government that people and businesses are going to have to drive because fuel prices may be reduced from DKK 28 per litre with taxes to DKK 18 per litre without tax, and does the government believe that EU countries that have set a maximum price on electricity and cut fuel charges are pursuing a policy that leads to increased consumption?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e814	On Monday 25 April 2022, SSB published statistics on the sale of petroleum products in March 2022. The statistics show that in March the average pump price of diesel was 22.06.kr/litre and the average pump price of petrol was 22,04kr/litre. The gasoline was actually cheaper than the diesel, although the fee is lower on diesel. Now in April, fuel is typically sold for 19–23 DKK/litre, i.e. on average a decrease from the previous month. Although there's a drop, there's still a high price level. This comes as a result of the very worrying situation in Europe and increased commodity prices after Russia went to war with Ukraine. Although most people tend to manage the increase, many people experience it as demanding. I have a great deal of understanding for that. We therefore need to constantly consider measures that make people with normal incomes get out of the crisis in the ordinary budgetary processes altogether. Fuel prices vary considerably over time and between stations. The difference in the price of several kroner is not uncommon. These large price fluctuations occur despite the fact that the level of the charge remains unchanged. In fact, this government seized and reduced the fees in the year's budget compared to the draft budget available from the Right and the Solberg Government. We got a lot of criticism that we reduced fuel charges. When the power support system was introduced in December 2021, the power prices in South Norway had actually increased by about 360 pst. compared to an average for 2010-2020, from 33 ear to 151 ear. By comparison, fuel prices in March 2022 were actually 30-40 pst. higher than average real prices in the last 10 years. The price increase in electricity has therefore been much stronger than the increase in the price of fuel. Power also covers more basic needs such as heating, cooking – what we rely on every day. A normal household has much higher electricity costs than e.g. to fuel. That's why it's much more important to take good action there. I want to answer the question to Aron Marius Nilsen that the government immediately when we took over the government power, reduced the electricity charges by 2.9 billion. kr, because we thought the fees were too high in the budgets adopted by the Progress Party and the Right. And we reduced the fees compared to what the Solberg government proposal had in terms of fuel. We've been concerned that all of the tax cuts we're going to do are going to benefit people who have low or medium incomes, which means that everyone who earns less than 750,000 kroner gets lower taxes this year than the budget that the Progress Party was in and adopted for 2022. That's the development we're also going to see further. In addition, we have taken action to bring down the holiday prices, increase the commuting discount and reduce the traffic insurance charge for those who depend on having one or more cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e831	I thank you for a long and complementary answer, but unfortunately the Council of State did not answer my question. I asked if the government thought that EU countries that have put a maximum price on electricity and cut fuel taxes are pursuing policies that increase consumption. In fact, the areas where the government now has the most space and opportunity to influence, namely electricity prices and fuel prices, are the ones that have increased most. The current is record animals, fuel as well, but the government does little for households and nothing for business. Countries in the EU are taking a lot of action to address this, and the Council of State is asking both to clarify why the government is not taking more steps to help the population and business, and to answer the question of whether it is a consuming exercise if you reduce fuel taxes and put a maximum price on electricity – that you will then use electricity and fuel only because you have got normalised prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e836	The premise in the representative's question, that we're not doing anything, is wrong. If you look at the measures we have on the current, it amounts to many and twenty billion dollars, where the insurance scheme is a deciduously important one. Electricity charges were also reduced after the previous government, and not least the Progress Party – they were at the very highest level when the Progress Party had the Finance Minister – increased electricity charges. The sum of interventions — housing support, social assistance, special measures for greenhouse activities, the insurance scheme — is several and twenty billion kroner, so many and extensive interventions are being taken. I think many depend on the car and many of them depend of course on using electricity partly for heating, so there is a kind of primary need for many. That's why it's important that we keep working to keep costs down. And then we have the security system for electricity, because that's where the deciduous maximum burden for individuals is.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e843	That is quite correct, and I agree with the Minister that electricity is a primary input and very important for people. That's why it's very strange. One thing is that we had a higher electricity charge, that's correct, but the VAT now with average prices in April is higher than the average electricity price has been in the last ten years. With an average price in April on electricity of SEK 1.77, which it was until mid-April, you have a VAT of more than 45 ø/kWt alone. This is something the government can do about. This is something that European countries have done. It is incomprehensible that you then sit and take in tens of billions of electricity, which is a primary product, an input that both business and households need and depend on to live and work in this country. So the Council of State is asked to explain why the government does not reduce taxes and VAT on electricity at least when prices are devastatingly high, which is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e848	In terms of electricity charges, we have reduced excise duties, especially in the winter months, by almost up to 50 pst. But of course it's with the high level that has been on prices, a smaller share. But we have also reduced the fees for those who live in Middle Norway, who have had lower electricity bills, because we believe that we will have lower taxes on electricity over time. I want to repeat that when it comes to power, there are a huge number of measures, and it has been absolutely necessary to spend more and twenty billion dollars on action. The last estimates I saw last year for the rent tax on power plants were slightly above 11 billion. kr – these are the last estimates I've seen. That's why it's wrong to say that you haven't done anything, because we've done a lot, but it's been absolutely necessary to create security for people. As soon as we saw the start of the Ukraine war, we announced that we should continue the safeguard system, and we have also decided that we should improve it in November and December. With the numbers that were available, it was possible to phase it out, but we immediately changed it, we saw that the Ukraine crisis was coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e858	‘Many Norwegians regularly choose to trade in Sweden to save money. The Progress Party has therefore wanted to reduce the charges on goods at a border-trade level in Norway to the same level as in Sweden. Does the Council agree with the Progress Party that this could help to secure and create new jobs, increase tax revenue in Norway and improve the private economy of the people most, and if the Council of State agrees with this, why does the Council of State increase taxes and investigate further rather than actually reduce them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e865	Travel restrictions under the pandemic greatly reduced the travel activity of the North, thus also tax-free trade and border trade. Turnover in Norwegian grocery stores and in the Vinmonopolet increased significantly. The same was true of the country’s tax receipts from alcohol and tobacco products. This has given increased attention to the scale of tax-free trade and border trade. Several have addressed measures to limit the commercial leakage. Close limits under the pandemic have led to increased turnover of domestic products which are particularly exposed to border trade. Border regions, with cities such as Kongsvinger, Moss, Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg and Halden, had a sharp increase in turnover. Increased demand also contributed to more employees in the daily food industry compared to before the pandemic. It is uncertain how much of the increase in Norwegian trade in goods during the pandemic was due to stop in border trade with Sweden. The restrictions on travel led to a sharp reduction in the number of holiday trips abroad and thus to an almost full stop in the tax-free trade. At the same time, Norwegians ferried more in Norway and spent more money in Norway. Also closed canteens, restaurants and outdoors have probably contributed to increased trade in goods during the period. For 2022, excise duties on goods placed on the market are: alcohol, tobacco and beverage packaging, as from 2021. However, it is true that Swedish taxes on alcohol and tobacco products are lower than Norwegians. Food prices are also lower in Sweden than in Norway. In addition, the Swedish Government has proposed an increase in taxes on tobacco products and alcohol in 2023 and 2024. In a pilot project in the autumn of 2019, the SSB collected more detailed information on what the Nordic border is dealing with. According to the pilot, the value of the purchase of food and groceries was about one third of the border trade. These are goods which are subject to a low excise duty. Furthermore, the SSB found that products subject to excise duty, such as alcohol, tobacco, snuzzles and showers/mineral waters, stood for just under half of the border trade. It is worth noting that even if the excise duty on these goods were to be reduced to the Swedish level, many of the goods would still be expensive in Norway. In other words, how much a reduction in excise duties will help to reduce border trade is uncertain. This shows that there are more than charges that are relevant to border trade. Not least, a generally higher level of wages and costs in Norway contributes to higher prices in Norway than in Sweden. Availability and choice of goods and that shops in Sweden may have open on Sundays also play. Some of the border trade can also be about people wanting to take a good trip. That's something I know well from where I live. I don't think it's the food that's the point; it's the trip that's the point. [[The President clubs]] And there was time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e878	I am fully aware that the country has been through a pandemic, that there have been closed borders, and that this has led to much of the trade that has been in Sweden in the past, for example, in Norway. It's natural. It has also given us good and valuable experience and also shows that the Progress Party has been right: reducing border trade could create more jobs in Norway. Then it is strange that you have a government that does not see it and also argues that the reason why many Norwegians travel to Sweden are not high alcohol taxes or sky-high tobacco taxes. That's one of the main reasons why many North people travel to Sweden. That's why my question is: Why does the Council of State not want to reduce fees to the same level as in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e885	I challenged former finance minister Siv Jensen very many times when the Progress Party, together with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, increased the fees for non-alcoholic beverages and the sugar levy. We thought it was very unwise to have such great jumps as you had then, where one of the fees increased by over 80 pst. from one year to another. The centre party and the Workers' Party have been concerned not to have the kind of “tax stunt”, which I want to call what the previous government did. In our adopted budget, we did not increase all the taxes on such goods – non-alcoholic beverages and the sugar levy. We kept it stable. But it's true that we have a different view of tobacco and alcohol. We believe that tobacco and alcohol have many other negative social consequences, so costs can be too high if you reduce those charges so much that it can affect border trade. The sum of that could be negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e892	The council is quite right that he was a little clearer when he was in opposition. For example, the current Minister of Finance reintroduces: the air passenger fee from 1 July – a fee that the Progress Party has fortunately been removed at the end. I myself live in Eastfold and talk to many common people, and I go to Sweden myself and sometimes trade and talk to many. One of the reasons people do is, of course, the wallet. Then I find it a little strange that the Minister of Finance is trying to imagine that the charges are of little importance in this. No, it is the fees that are one of the main reasons why prices are so much more expensive in Norway than in Sweden, and we have an opportunity to reduce those charges. Then I'll try for the third time: Will the State Council reduce the fees to Swedish level, as the Progress Party wishes, in order to secure Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e901	It was mainly two fees that the Senterpartie criticised when we were in opposition. It was the levy on non-alcoholic beverages and the sugar levy. We thought what the Right Party and the Advance Party did was so irresponsible – the increased fees slightly increased in one year. Now they're on a completely different level. What we were adopted in the autumn, for example. in the case of mineral water, e.g. Pepsi Max, that fee is on a completely different level, non-existent. It makes that e.g. The competition between Norwegian and Swedish shops for Pepsi Max and that type of product is much easier. The problem with alcohol is that we actually have different visions. I see that higher alcohol charges in Norway can contribute to border trade – there is no doubt about it. But I also see that if we reduce alcohol taxes a lot, it can lead to some other challenges related to increased alcohol consumption. That's exactly where we have different assessments. We believe that in the interests of society — public health — it is right not to reduce the fees as much as the Progress Party calls for. It seems like the Swedish government thinks the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e908	The President will remind you that speaking time is valid for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e916	This question, from the representative Ingerd Schou to the Minister for Development, will be raised by the representative Fredrik Holm.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e921	‘The Development Minister last week attended the World Bank’s spring meeting in Washington, D.C., where the global food crisis in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine was the topic. How will the government adapt Norway’s work on global food security as a result of the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e928	It's true, as the representative says, that last week I attended the World Bank's spring meeting in Washington, D.C. In absolutely all the meetings, the drama was linked to global food security, whether it was with fellow states councillors from other continents, or with representatives of the World Bank, the UN or humanitarian or aid actors. All before the war in Ukraine, over 811 million people were starving, and this has evolved negatively since 2014. There is reason to recall that global food prices were at a record high level as early as last autumn. Russia's warfare has only made the situation much more serious. The government’s clear priority of food security in the Hurdal platform has therefore become even more topical and important. So, what will the government do? Well, in the short term, through humanitarian efforts, we will help save lives. We've decided to release 2 billion. humanitarian aid for Ukraine and refugees, of which EUR 300 million is granted. to the World Food Programme and their work against hunger and food insecurity. In addition, this week the government announced a contribution of 200 million. humanitarian aid to the Horn of Africa. In the longer term, we need to increase the productivity of developing countries' own food production. The government has therefore increased food security, fish and agriculture assistance by 500 million. NOK 2022, and more will come. We have doubled the increase to the International Agricultural Fund for Agricultural Development, IFAD, for the period 2022-2024, to enable more poor small farmers and fishermen in developing countries to feed themselves and supply food to local markets. We will also promote social security networks focusing on food and nutrition, and we will strengthen the multilateral crisis mechanisms for increased food security. About 70–80% of the world’s poorest live in rural areas in developing countries, and government’s commitment to food security through small-scale food production is more important than ever in the dramatic world situation. I was pleased that the meetings with other actors that I met in Washington, D.C. confirmed that the Norwegian food safety bet is correct. The focus on raising the productivity of small farmers, building local value chains and local markets, making Africa less dependent on imports in the long term, was what we discussed with other actors. The government will continue to have Norway’s efforts for food security high on the agenda during the time of crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e945	In addition to this Spring Conference, the Council of State has recently visited several African countries, where food security and links have also been discussed between UN Sustainable Development Goal No. 16, on peace, justice and well-functioning institutions — and just food security. It is a regrettable fact that several countries in the region are undergoing a democratic decline. For example, media following developments in Africa are a little closer than many Norwegians say. that 2021 was the year in which the military coup d'état returned to Africa. There has been a coup in Mali, Guinea, Sudan and Chad, and in January now in 2022 a junta took over the power of Burkina Faso. Will the Council of State say that political developments in several African countries are also a challenge in combating global food security?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e950	Democratic developments in very many African countries are extremely worrying and affect our efforts in many areas, including food security. In our short-term humanitarian aid, we will help to save lives, alleviate short-term distress, and here we will make great use of global humanitarian actors who can maneuver in demanding political settings, and in some countries then avoid using their own structures. But I would like to stress that in very many of our main co-operation countries, we have a good political dialogue with the authorities, not least on our food security efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e955	Food security is in many ways the big headline of the day, and I am very happy that this hall is concerned with food security beyond our own borders. Several speeches were made by the Prime Minister in his statement on developments in Ukraine yesterday and by several representatives in the ex-post debate. I wonder if the Council of State could say anything more about what feedback she got on her posts and on Norway's efforts in this area in the meetings, both with African leaders and with other partners in the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e962	Yes, I will commend the representative for raising the topic in this room. It is more important than ever that the world is talking about global food security, and as I said, I felt that this thematically marked absolutely all meetings between international actors during the World Bank's spring meeting. Western countries are expected to contribute, not only in the ongoing crisis in Ukraine, but also to address the major global repercussions of the crisis in Ukraine. We know that in many countries in the Middle East and East Africa, in particular, this crisis is already accelerating, and the world's eyes must be directed towards other crises, which are the consequence of the ongoing war.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e978	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e990	This question has been drawn. So we go to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1000	‘Art is important for interpreting and understanding society and the time we live in. Among the many victims of the ongoing war in Ukraine, we find important mediators of art and culture on both sides, who have had to shut down their business, because of censorship or because they have had to flee. We're all getting wiser if we facilitate art practice in times of crisis, and we in Norway have the tools and the means to do it. How will the Council of State help artists to continue to exercise their functions in flight?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1007	The representative raises a very important question, and I'm glad that we're finally having this discussion. The government has said that Ukrainians who flee from war and seek a safe harbour with us will get it. We're going to make it possible for them to live a good life in Norwegian society, and as Minister of Culture and Gender Equality, of course, I'm going to take my share of that responsibility. This work will require much of the municipalities, the working life, the volunteering and of all of us in the future. The cultural sector is well under way. I know, for example. that the Norwegian Opera & Ballet has opened the doors to Russian dancers who have been on tour since the outbreak of the war, and that a Ukrainian ensemble, the Kyiv Soloists, will live and work with the Arctic Philharmonic in the future. The cultural idea, on its side, has focused on how to ensure inclusion, cultural exchange and cultural activity of young refugees in the communities that are now to receive people in a very demanding situation. I would also like to mention that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supports the important organisation SafeMUSE, Safe Havens for Artist, which is working to ensure persecuted artists the ability to practice their art in a safe environment. The Culture Council is in contact with the Ukrainian Cultural Council to offer its assistance, especially to cultural workers, which we have followed up with Ukrainian authorities. Together with the EU's cultural ministers, I have signed a declaration that refers to the importance of culture for democracy and fundamental rights. It expresses support for the Ukrainian people and for Ukrainian journalists, artists and cultural workers, as well as concerns about what is now happening to Ukrainian cultural heritage. As always, we are bound by international conventions. In this context, the UNESCO Convention on Culture is of particular importance. We in the government will continue to facilitate a free and independent cultural life, and our cultural policy will, of course, also apply to artists on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1020	Just the organisation mentioned by the Council of State, the Residence Organisation SafeMUSE, has addressed the Ministry of Culture and has asked for both financial and practical support to be a hub for artists in flight – obviously in cooperation with a number of art actors in Norway. In the interview, they point to how artists in conflict often become human rights champions, and how not only can they stay safely, as all Ukrainians will get in Norway, but also continue their artistic exercise here, can give voice to the local people's experience of the war and at the same time help the refugees to process the experiences themselves. Does the Council of State see the values of such an initiative, and will she follow up this enquiry? There were no concrete appropriations for this in the crisis package presented by the government, but there is a new occasion in the revised budget. Will it be followed up there?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1027	Now it is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that normally finances SafeMUSE. SafeMUSE is a fantastic initiative, an amazing organization, which does a lot for artists, who – and the representative is quite right in – in line with human rights activists and journalists are among the most persecuted in other countries in the world, and definitely in regimes that are in war and conflict. It's natural enough because artists and cultural workers are speaking, and speech is too many provocative. But taking care of and ensuring that artists exercise their art freely, is simply about taking care of freedom of expression, and therefore our democracy. And yes, I've had more meetings with SafeMUSE, and together we look at how we can best facilitate this, but I can't now say anything about concrete appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1034	I understand. We know that as a result of the sanctions against Russia, it has not only become difficult, but almost impossible to get visas out of Russia. At the same time, both national authorities here in Norway and international authorities point out that regime critics in Russia can play a crucial role in the future conflict. Artists, musicians, and writers are at the forefront of criticism of Putin's regime. Do the councils see the importance of having arrangements that help people build up the cultural and popular resistance to the war and Putin, out of Russia, and will she take the initiative to achieve this? I am aware that this does not necessarily fall within the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State. I don't know how governments work, but I'll say that, for example. The Council of State has greater opportunities to influence what the government prioritises than many of us. So the question becomes if the council sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1045	I share the concern associated with those who are dying, those who are accepting and standing in the front and criticising the regime now. In this context, as I said, the groups we know a lot about, which often have to take the big noise by being persecuted and living dangerously. It's journalists, it's artists, it's cultural workers, and it's human rights activists. As for just how they can get out of Russia, I regret to disappoint the representative that this issue has to be left to my colleague, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1055	This question, from the representative of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, will be raised by the representative Emma Georgina Lind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1060	‘How does the Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality follow up the winding-up of the cultural gift-enhancing scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1065	It is true that the gift-enhancing scheme was terminated as of 1 January 2022, and this was informed by Stortinget in the additional proposition that was dealt with in this room. The applications received before the end of 2021 will be dealt with in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the previous government. It will occur after the disposal of last year's gambling surplus in Norwegian Typing as determined by the Royal Resolution. All applications for the 2021 gift-enhancing scheme that were made until the end of the year will be processed and answered on this side of the summer. So the termination of the gift enhancement scheme will only release funds for distribution in the spring of 2023. I can assure you that the available funds will continue to be used for high priority cultural purposes, and the distribution will be made on the basis of an overall cultural policy assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1074	Now I am not here to argue for or against a gift enhancement scheme, but the 2023 budget has just had an application deadline. That is to say, there are quite a number of people who have now had to deal with 2023 without knowing what the plan is – they have to make and change the budget. The real question is: is there any plan to replace the subsidies that several actors have made themselves dependent on? Can the Council say anything about how the anticipatives that have been used in the past for the reinforcement of gifts have been re-disposaled?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1079	For as many years as the gift-enhancing system has existed, the Workers' Party and the Centre have been aware that we were opposed to the establishment of the scheme. We have also proposed that it be phased out in every alternative state budget in all these years. We believe that now that we have come into government and are able to realise our policy, that is to say to wind up the system, we are doing it in a predictable way for the recipients when, in the supplementary proposition that was dealt with before Christmas, we say that it is now being completed, but those who applied by the end of last year will receive gift reinforcement through the tipping funds for this year, but not for 2023. It's not that we're going to replace those grants with other grants, because then we could really just leave the gift enhancement scheme. The money that has gone to gift-enhancing must go for cultural purposes all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1084	A major point of the scheme was to help make cultural life more aware of new sources of income and partnerships, and to give an incentive to expand, among others. business models and have more legs to stand on. Post pandemic may be much more important than ever. So the sector itself, from both the large and the small, is called for more incentives for more cooperation with private individuals, also as part of the reconstruction and reinforcement of the pandemic. The Council of State agrees that new or other incentives for more cooperation, including: from investments can be a good track to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1091	Yes, I fully agree that doing things that provide more cooperation between the institution and the cultural actor and the private, and that can trigger private money, is very good. But then the gift-enhancing system had no incentive for the donors, it was the state that strengthened the money that the donors gave to the institutions. Several of those that are the largest donors, including: Our foundations have said that this does not affect their desires. So it was a bad instinct. We are to facilitate the kind of cooperation the representative is asking for. That is also why, among other things, Now Norwegian public development has been brought back into the state budget, precisely because that organisation acts as an umbrella where institutions, cultural actors and the private community meet, and how to expand and develop their audience base. It is such a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1105	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1114	‘In accordance with Article 4, point (b) 3 and Article 11 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, authorities shall take all necessary measures to ensure the protection and safety of persons with disabilities in the event of a risk and that the organisations of persons with disabilities shall be consulted in this respect. [[CRPD]] We've been through a pandemic where we see that disability has been hit harder than anyone else, and that the contingency plans are not adapted to the entire population. What will the Council of State do to ensure the preparedness of this group?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1121	I would like to thank the representative for addressing an important topic. A principle of social security work is the principle of responsibility. It is the department that has a subject area, which is also responsible for preparedness and handling exceptional events in that area. The readiness of persons with disabilities is the responsibility of all departments. The Ministry of Justice and Security has a coordinating role in the area of social security and the role has been enhanced through the Instructor of the Ministry’s work on social security. The instructions provide, inter alia, for: requirements for ministries to develop risk and vulnerability analyses for their sector. Municipalities shall also carry out risk and vulnerability analyses to identify adverse events that may affect municipalities, as well as an assessment of the likelihood and consequences of these events. In DSB’s guide to overall risk and vulnerability analysis in the municipality, some selected areas are listed, including the follow-up of particularly vulnerable groups, such as: disabled persons. The current follow-up measures may, for example: be information and evacuation procedures. Where the municipality has a warning system, it should also be ensured that disabled persons are informed. State administrators guide municipalities and supervise compliance with the law. The Corona Commission has made recommendations on how governments can improve their work, including those with disabilities. The Ministry of Justice and Defence coordinates the ministry's efforts to follow up the report. The Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality has commissioned Bufdir to report regularly on the status of rights and equality for persons with disabilities as a result of the pandemic situation. It is important for the government to have an overall evaluation of how the pandemic has been managed from start to finish. We want to appoint an expert group. In its mandate, the government has asked that the assessment focus on psychosocial preparedness and action to protect vulnerable groups. I look forward to the expert group's report. I Prop. 78 S for 2021-2022 Changes in the State budget 2022, economic measures resulting from the war in Ukraine, the government has also proposed the establishment of a mobile population alert. I believe that this is an important measure to strengthen preparedness also for people with disabilities, such as those with disabilities. hearing damage, which will then have better access to information.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1136	It's not just the pandemic that has updated a major discussion of preparedness. Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine means that we need to assess self-reliance on other types of crises and risk situations. I want to commend the government for setting up a total preparedness committee to look at the overall preparedness in Norway. However, the mandate does not mention in a word the special needs of people with disabilities or the need for preparedness to be universally designed. Some 800,000 Nordics are disabled — they are reduced mobility, impaired vision or hearing or psychosocial disabilities. According to Nav, the number of wheelchair users is about 50,000. There are about 10,000 blind people in Norway. As far as I know, not a single shelter in Norway is universally designed. In view of the work on overall preparedness: can the Minister guarantee that this perspective will be covered in the Commission's work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1143	I am confident that the Commission will look to the mandate and also follow up on issues that they consider important in the work on total preparedness. As I said, the government is busy with everyone. Caring for people with disabilities is a shared responsibility, and it is part of a lot of the different things that we do in the field of preparedness. I mentioned someone in my first post. There are a lot of people in society who have needs other than those who don't have disabilities, and it's important that we take care of them in the best possible way. The representative was in the shelter. There's also something that DSB is going to have to review, to look at how we're going to set up the shelter of the future. They will also come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1150	Much of the preparedness is, as I said, added to the municipalities. This means that the contingency plans vary, but there are common features for the deficiencies. We see in general that there is a lack of an overview of universally designed shelters. Fire evacuation procedures for disabled persons in private homes are absent or very variable. In the pandemic, responsibility for access to infectious diseases equipment was largely added to users of home services such as BPA, even though this was not to be recovered in pharmacies or shops during periods of time. We in SV do not know any municipalities where the organisations of disabled people have been consulted in the processes of creating emergency plans. Will the Minister of Justice take the initiative, in cooperation with the organisations of disabled people, to draw up a national emergency plan for use in municipalities to ensure the lives and health of the disabled?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1157	It is an important municipal responsibility to ensure the preparedness of all citizens, including people with disabilities. It is good that the DSB has a guide to the overall risk and vulnerability analyses of the municipalities, which are an important part of the preparedness work done out there. As I said at the outset, among other things: follow-up of particularly vulnerable groups, e.g. disabled persons, which is specifically mentioned there. But this is an area where the representative points to improvement points that I think we're never going to be completely finished. In the case of shelters, the general availability of shelters is also low and, therefore, the government has started an assessment of what this will look like in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1167	I would like to start by congratulating the Council of State on a new job, even though it was a little while ago. My question to the Council of State is this: ‘23. In March, the International Institute for Sustainable Development published a study — I have it here — ‘which concluded that ‘it is not possible to find spaces within the IPCC carbon budgets for any country to develop any new fossil energy production facilities, whether they are coal mines, oil fields or gas terminals. The conclusion applies to all countries, irrespective of the level of income and development’. Which of the study's assumptions does the Council of State disagree with, as the government pursues a climate and oil policy that is in conflict with this recommendation?'
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1176	First of all, thank you very much for the congratulations. The world’s population is growing, and there is a need for increased wealth levels for most of the world’s population. This is moving towards increasing demand for energy. At the same time, global greenhouse gas emissions should, of course, be reduced. These challenges need to be addressed in parallel, and the UN's sustainability objectives, the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement are central to this work. The government is taking the climate challenges seriously. Climate challenges can only be addressed through international cooperation and Norway remains a driver of more ambitious international climate policy with the aim of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees. The government’s climate policy shall provide real emission reductions and create and maintain jobs and ensure a fair distribution. Norway’s objective under the Paris Agreement is to reduce emissions by at least 50 pst, up to 55 pst, by 2030 compared to 1990. By 2050, Norway will be a low-carbon society and by 2050 greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced in the range of 90-95 pst. compared to the 1990 emission year. In order to achieve the climate objectives, emission reductions are necessary in all sectors. This means that we have a responsible, predictable petroleum policy. Petroleum activities in Norway are already subject to strict instrument use to limit emissions to air from the production activity. That's why we have low average emissions from our production. In the Hurdal platform we warn that we will work together with the industry to cut the emissions from the production of oil and gas on the Norwegian base by 50 pst. by 2030 and to net zero by 2050. The world energy system is dominated by coal, oil and gas, and Norwegian production covers about 2 pst respectively. and 3 pst. the use of oil and gas by the world. As a central exporter of oil and gas to Europe, Norway plays an important role in Europe’s energy supply and thus prosperity. Norwegian energy and climate policies cannot be based on assumptions in individual studies or scenarios. Many different scenarios have been developed for how the world can limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. The study referred to here is not a fascist, but shows a possible development under a number of uncertain assumptions and assumptions. For all scenarios of net zero emissions, common concern is that the world as a whole implements measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to close to zero. A large proportion of the world's fossil energy must then be replaced by renewable energy. At the same time, the world's growing population must have access to energy. It will take time to convert the huge global energy system. The government wants a stable activity level on a Norwegian base and will continue to grant new permits through new concession rounds. Over time, we expect our petroleum production to fall, as the production of new projects does not fully replace the natural fall. Norway has good prospects for success, including in the national transition to a low-carbon society. The Government will pursue an energy and petroleum policy that contributes to increased value creation and to meeting Norway’s international climate obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1201	Thanks for the answer. I note that the Council of State does not want to deal with the conclusions of the report, but I want to give the Council of State a new chance. In May 2021, the International Energy Agency, the IEA, presented the report «Net Zero by 2050», and I have it here. It was established that there was no need for investment in new fossil energy projects in their net zero scenario. On questions from me, the IEA Director confirmed last year that the conclusion that there is no room for more exploration or expansion of oil and gas applied to all countries — including Norway. What are the assumptions of the IEA report that the Council of State disagrees with, as the government is pursuing a climate and oil policy that is in conflict with this report as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1210	As I said in my first reply, there's been a variety of studies with slightly different assumptions that one looks at. But what is important for us now is to cut greenhouse gas emissions in line with what we have committed ourselves to through the Paris Agreement, and to follow up on what lies in the Hurdal platform: that we should cut the greenhouse gas emissions on the Norwegian base by 50 pst. until 2030 and have a net zero in 2050. In addition, we have started stress testing of financial climate risks associated with new petroleum activities. So I believe that the government is well focused on this with the climate impacts, and is going to follow up on it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1215	Thank you for the answer, and I note that the Council of State does not want to deal with the realities of the reports this time either. But I want to give the Council another chance, because the United Nations Climate Panel came April 4th with its third interim report, and I have the summary here. The report states that the calculated emissions from today’s fossil infrastructure are 660 gigatons of CO 2 equivalent. It is much higher than the remaining carbon budget for the 1.5 degree target, which is 510 gigatonnes. The UN Secretary-General – and not the Greens – said that investing in new fossil energy and infrastructure is moral and economic madness. What are the assumptions behind the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that the Council of State disagrees with, as the government pursues a climate and oil policy that is in conflict with this recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1227	There is no doubt that the climate challenges are real, and they are very close. That's why it's important that we do a lot. It is important that we get an energy supply that is renewable. It is important that we are able to decarbonize that part of the energy supply that is fossil. The government is actively working on all those fronts, precisely to meet our climate commitments – and in addition to our commitments in the Paris Agreement to find solutions, not least for a decarbonised energy sector in Europe. This situation has evolved over the past six months, I think there are few who think that it is now natural to stop all the activity on Norwegian pedestal in the continuation, as a result of the dramatic happening in Ukraine. But making progress based on the climate commitments we have and the climate targets that are set is very important, precisely in order for us to be able to solve the problem that we are facing. But the government is contributing in several fields. It is important to decarbonise the energy sector rather than to stop the new activity related to the petroleum activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1239	Let me first congratulate the Council of State on its new and important role. I look forward to constructive cooperation here in Stortinget. ‘I refer to my written question No. 1117 on 2 February and Grams' reply on 8 February 2022. It was about neighbors who had to pay high bills for road demands triggered when a builder built new dwellings in the street. The reply referred to the Ministry as being in the process of reviewing the legislation on processing obligations and reimbursement. For residents receiving such a requirement, the situation is both difficult and economical. Can the Council of States therefore further explain the status and concrete timetable of this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1248	All of them first: Thank you for your congratulations, and thank you for the opportunity it gives me to come back to Stortinget, I very much appreciate participating in discussions with my good colleagues here. So to the question from the representative Kapur, which concerns the status of the ministry's work on reviewing the planning and building law rules on processing obligations and reimbursement. I would like to begin by stressing that the rules on processing obligations and reimbursement are complex and complex. The rules shall primarily safeguard important social interests by ensuring that public roads, water and sewerage are developed and upgraded as new development requires increased capacity. The rules shall also take into account both the person responsible for reprocessing the infrastructure and the person responsible for reimbursing the road in the form of reimbursement to the contractor. If someone is relieved of the requirement to pay, this will affect someone else. It would be either the municipality or others, private, who have to pay more. This makes it difficult to find a good solution for all parties. There may be a need to make regulatory adjustments, but we need to explore the situation in order to find out what is really the main challenge of today's situation. When we know more about that, we'll consider possible changes. We have now started work on identifying the challenges of today's legislation and its practice, but it is far too early to say anything about the timing of any changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1257	I thank you for your answer. In the letter of reply I received from the then municipal and district minister Gram, reference was made to the fact that there is also a local room for action. At the same time, one can get the impression that political leadership in Oslo is primarily pointing to the ministry. The city councillor Marcussen in Oslo also stated at the beginning of March that she would soon have a meeting with the department and the municipal minister. Can the Council of State say anything more about that meeting? If it has taken place, what has been achieved so far? And what do you see as the possible room for action for the Municipality of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1262	It is important to stress that this is a responsibility that lies in the municipality of Oslo. There have also been disputes between the Municipality of Oslo and local interests. There are disputes that need to be resolved, and that have also been brought to justice in some situations, such as the judgment of the Borgarting Lawyers' Court, which primarily concerns the case in question between Bergskogen Eiendom AS and the Municipality of Oslo. It is possible that that decision may also affect other cases if the judgment remains. However, what kind of consequences the judgment might have for other similar cases is, to begin with, to say something about. Then the Municipality of Oslo has informed that they are now working on reviewing that judgment in concrete terms, and we are in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo. But it's very important from the department to say that here's the Oslo municipality that has to assess follow-up, based on the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1269	I thank you for the clarification, which deals with which rooms of action the Municipality of Oslo also has. As I mentioned at the outset, for residents who receive such a requirement, the situation is both difficult and economically demanding. So I understand that work on regulation takes time, and it's also right to do it in a way that is quality assured. We also know that national legislation should be applied in a wise and correct manner to all municipalities in the country, and that the necessary time must therefore be spent. At the same time, the situation is precarious for those concerned. Can the Council of State say anything more about the possibilities of possibly speeding up work related to this issue? Can it be given a different pace in the work that has to be done in the ministry, so that conclusions can be drawn more quickly on that particular part?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1274	It is again important to clarify that, in the case of ongoing cases, they must be handled in accordance with existing legislation. And then we have started a work in the department, also based on the experience of existing legislation, to look at any adjustments in it. It is important that the various questions are addressed, because, as I was in my first answer, regulatory changes and adjustments will also have consequences for who, for example, is charged costs and how to allocate costs. If any of those who are currently charged are not going to cover them, who else will get the costs? Here are the different questions that are important to get well-lit. We focus on the matter from the department, work actively with it, but are very concerned that it should be thoroughly and properly illuminated before making any changes to the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1284	I would also like to congratulate the new Council of State on its position. ‘The Council of State in the Class Battle of 20 April raised its concerns about depopulation in the districts, a concern Red to the greatest extent. But in a somewhat unclear reasoning on the matter in question, the Council of State also calls for relaxation in the protection of the beach area, and refers to what he seems to think is too little pressure on the beach area in many places. Does the Council of State think that the answer to the migration problem in the districts is to privatise beach sonals more?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1293	First, I would also like to thank Mr Marhaug for his congratulations, and I look forward to a good cooperation here in the Grand Duchy on various issues. What is unique about Norway is our long coastline and its possibilities. The beach zone is important both for housing and for business. Fisheries, farming and tourism are examples of industries that depend on the area associated with the sea. These industries already account for a large part of the value creation and employment of the Norwegian economy. Unlocking the potential for further job and value creation is important both in order to ensure sustainable development, future well-being and strong communities. This is why the government wants to give greater flexibility and more freedom of action to municipalities in scattered districts with low expansion pressures, while continuing strict policies in press areas. I believe it is possible to do this without going to the expense of the rights of all persons and the possibility of free movement in the beach zone. The key is good spatial planning in the municipalities. More freedom of action for small-scale rural communities can actually make the sea and the coast of these areas more accessible than today. In many places an uninhabited shoreline is inaccessible to free movement because it is overgrown. I would also like to stress that all expansion in the coastal zone is to be assessed in terms of the natural environment, outdoor life and other public interest – including in areas with less expansionary pressures. It follows from the current guidelines for the management of the coastal zone that construction should not be permitted in areas with special value for outdoor activities and general traffic. This is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1308	The centre party showed before the election a good understanding of why it becomes more difficult to live in the districts. After many years of centralisation of hospitals and food supply, the centralisation of District Courts, the closure of Länsmannskontoret and post offices, and more to the increase of geographical differences in our country. However, the new statements of the Minister point – and unfortunately – to completely different issues, which are closer to the previous government and the right rhetoric and policy. Yesterday, the Right delivered a proposal that might respond to the Minister’s prayer in the class struggle interview, without being good district policy for that reason. They propose to remove the illegality of municipalities, a kind of amnesty for cabin refugees and jetty enthusiasts. So I wonder if the Council of State agrees with the Right in easing the protection of the beach zone in this way. Is this what he's doing in the media in the last month?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1313	With regard to concrete proposals presented in Stortinget, I will not comment on them here and now. They will undergo regular treatment at a later stage. I just want to stress that the government and I have not taken any initiative in legislative changes. What we're concerned about is that one should provide for a differentiated management – in this case a differentiated management of the beach zone, with increased space and greater opportunities for both nutrient development and settlement in scattered strata along the coast, in what is called a ‘zone 3’, which is some of the areas of the country where there are not most people but where one has large areas. It is to facilitate the diversity of Norway, that Norway is more than the most pressing areas of the Inner Oslofjord and around the largest cities. That is why we need an adapted policy and responsibility for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1318	I am glad that the Council of State does not call for legislative changes to make the protection of the coastal zone worse. It's reassuring to hear. At the same time, I would like to remind you that there are also dispensations today. In the same case in the Class Battle, the Council of State says that it is the sum – not only of coastal zone protection, but also cultural protection, the protection of the ants and regulations relating to floods and racial hazards – that makes development in the districts more difficult. Once again, I think these were kind of strange statements from a central party politician, because I know the centre party as a party that is very concerned with cultural memory protection. Which of these protections is it really that the Council of States considers unimportant enough to relax? Does the Council consider that the answer to the issue of links in the districts, for example: is not ensuring cultural memory protection as stringent?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1327	The national targets and the national legislation shall be set. Those of us who grew up in the districts, who are very happy with the natural qualities that are there, the environment that is there, cultural memories and other qualities that are there, are very concerned about taking care of them for the future and managing them in a good way. However, what is important is that one facilitates differentiated management, which enables one to see that Norway is diverse and that there are different ways to solve the mission. However, municipalities must definitely have a responsibility to make good plans, both to maintain natural quality, environmental quality and cultural memories and to facilitate growth and development, housing development and industrial development in coastal areas in Norway. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1332	Case No. 2, the ordinary Questionnaire, has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-27.ana.ud413e1346	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
