ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e61	Honourable co-representatives! Former poacher and Prime Minister Kåre Willoch passed away on December 6th last year, 93 years old. Few, like Kåre Willoch, have shaped Norwegian social debate, from the early 1960s until our time. He became early Norwegian policy's most important conservative vote. Although his analysis was syllable, the form was always lovable. «Strength in content, mild in form» was a delivery gel Willoch always followed himself. Willoch was of education social economist, always concerned with the context of politics and the sustainability of the economy. His elected career began in Oslo City Board from 1951 to 1959. At Stortinget he met for the first time as an alternate in 1955, as the youngest in our National Assembly since the National Assembly at Eidsvoll. He was elected representative of the Stortinget from 1957 to 1989, Højre's Secretary-General from 1963 to 1965, Minister of Trade of the Lyng Government from 1963 and of the Borten Government from 1965 to 1970. He was President of the Right from 1970 to 1974, Head of Parliament from 1970 to 1981 and Prime Minister from 1981 to 1986. In retrospect, he will be remembered by many as the Prime Minister who changed Norway. He led in 1981, along with Erling Nordvik, right to the best result in modern times and could in the same year form the first pure Right-Registration in more than 50 years. Two years later, the Willoch government was extended to a bourgeois majority government by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Under Willoch's leadership, far-reaching reforms were carried out that removed or softened the regulations of earlier times, including: the housing policy and media policy and the opening hours of the shops. The reforms were controversial in their time, but have remained standing. Willoch's liberal conservative stand was grounded. The community exposure was both wide and deep and lasted out. He was until the last intellectually curious and used the opportunity to give good advice and input. The children's family's corps were a theme he was burning for, and to which he still came back. The climate challenges he may have seen earlier than most. Many will remember his leading-var-analogue between climate policy and fire insurance: one does not expect the house to burn, but of course buys fire insurance because the consequences of a fire are so great. Nor did he fail to highlight clear positions on controversial issues, such as the Israel–Palestinian conflict. Over the years, Willoch was increasingly recognized as an ‘older statesman’, respected and valued across all party boundaries and across generations. He also had a great reputation internationally. In 1983 he was among the founders of the International Democratic Union, the Global Association of Conservative and Christian Democratic Parties, which he led from 1987 to 1989. After leaving national politics, he was in Oslo and Akershus from 1989 to 1998. He was head of the 1990 Defence Commission, was director of the NRK, was head of the Vulnerability Committee and was also director of the Fridtjof Nansen Institute. His distinctions were many. He was, among other things, Commander with the star of the Order of St. Olavs, the holder of the Free Word Prize, the Willy Brandt Prize and the Honorary Prize of the Bypatriot of Oslo Byes Well, to mention someone. Willoch belonged to the Norwegian policy elite division through more than a human age, but he was first and last a family man who put great emphasis on coming home to his daily dinner with Anne-Marie and their three children, and he rejoiced more and more over the contact with his grandchildren. We bring peace to Kåre Willoch's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e95	The representatives of Marius Arion Nilsen and Jorod Asphjell, who have been on probation, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For West Agder: Emma Georgina Lind For Buskerud: Kristin Örmen Johnsen and Solveig Westenfor For Hedmark: Bente Irene Aaland and Håvard Sagbakken Saanum For South-Trundellag: Guro Angell Gimse For Eastfold: Fredrik Holm There are some requests for a permit: on the leave of the representative of Mr Morten Wold to take part in the session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg on 26 and 27 April and the welfare leave on Thursday 28 April from the representative of Eigil Knutsen on care leave from 26 April to 8 May from the representative of Øystein Mathisen on care leave from 26 April to 9 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud: Lavrans Kierulf 26-28. April For Hordaland: Benjamin Jakobsen 26 April–5. May For Nordland: Sigurd Myrvoll 26 April–5. May
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e183	Lavrans Kierulf, Benjamin Jacobsen, and Sigurd Myrvoll are present and will sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e194	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e199	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Erlend Wiborg, Tor André Johnsen, Silje Hemdal and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal for control of the persons involved in the work of Ukrainian refugees. Furthermore, as the matter is of some time-consuming nature, we want it dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 39c, so that it comes up for consideration during this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e205	The representative of Charlotte Spurkeland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e210	On behalf of Ove Trellevik, Mudasar Kapur, Nikolai Astrup and myself, I would like to make a proposal to increase local self-government in terms of the local authorities' obligation to follow up illegal measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e215	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e231	Two months after Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine, we see what a time gap this war is. It is really one before and after 24 February, for so many – for Ukraine and for Russia, for European security and for the United States, for the world's food markets and for the global energy system, and for Norway, as a neighbour of Russia and as a NATO ally, with close ties to our Nordic neighbours. The first phase of the war is now over. We can say that Russia is very likely to have failed to achieve its objectives. They have not occupied the capital of Kyiv or deposed the legitimately elected government of Ukraine. They have suffered great losses of soldiers and material. The war has revealed great weaknesses in the Russian defence – intelligence, cooperation between defence sectors, logistics and management and motivation for Russian forces. Now a new phase of the war is in progress. Everything suggests that Russia's main objective in this phase is to take control of all or more parts of the Donbas region in the east and at least to secure a Russian land bridge to the Krhym. We are facing a more traditional war, a bloody battle for territory that we know too well from Europe's history from before 1945. We'll see extensive use of heavier weapons and heavy artillery. With this comes great destruction and high loss rates. I've said it before from this pulpit and find reason to say it again: I'm afraid it's getting worse, before it can get better, not least for the millions of civilian Ukrainian women, men and children killed, terrorized and driven away. It seems very demanding to end the war in the phase we are now entering. It is likely that Russia will want to strengthen its position on the ground in the east, and possibly in the south all the way to Odesa in the west, towards the border of Moldova. The shocking and increasing evidence of serious war crimes – from Butsja in the north to Mariupol in the south-east – also makes it increasingly difficult to maintain contact with the political regime of President Putin. Nevertheless, some channels must be kept open. The Government will therefore continue to support initiatives as Secretary-General of the United Nations meeting with President Putin of Moscow today. None of us trying have any illusions that the conversation itself leads to change – whether it is taken with Moscow from New York, Berlin, Paris, Tel Aviv, Ankara, Helsinki or Oslo. No one's naive. We're measuring Russia on what they're doing on the ground, not what they're saying on the phone. We've given a clear message about what we're looking at on the ground – about the destruction and the losses, including the Russians. The Secretary-General of the United Nations and many European leaders see what we see: we need to engage in a dialogue between Ukraine and Russia to one day end a war that has already taken tens of thousands of lives and has driven 12 million people away. This conflict, too – once – will have to have a political outcome. But let me make it clear: we strongly condemn Russia's actions and demand Russia to end the devastation and withdraw its forces. We shall do everything in our power to ensure that serious war crimes – killing civil, rape and sexualized violence – are investigated and documented so that the guilty can once be punished. While we keep alive in the hope of peace, we shall help the Ukrainians to defend themselves as long as this war continues. Defending against attacks is in line with international law. Helping the defender is also legal – in addition, it is right. That is why we support the initiative for negotiations while donating arms to Ukraine's self-defense. In the future, Ukrainian forces will need more weapons to withstand attacks in the south and east. They will need heavier and more advanced weapon systems. Norway contributes. We have donated a large amount of personal clothing and equipment necessary to equip all those who have been mobilised to fight in defence of Ukraine. We have donated 4,000 M72 Panserver missiles and about 100 Mistral air-protection missiles. These weapons have emerged and have been delivered to the Ukrainian forces. We work closely with Ukraine and allies to ensure good coordination of the delivery of weapons. Additional direct donations of heavy weapons from Norway to Ukraine are for ongoing evaluation and implementation. For security reasons, we do not mention such support publicly until deliveries are in place. The government also informs Stortinget today that we will propose to grant 400 million. kr to a British-led mechanism for the purchase of arms and military materials to Ukraine. This enables us to support Ukraine with material that the Norwegian Defense itself does not have or has the opportunity to do without weakening its defence capabilities. Donation of weapons to a party in war is a new experience for our country. I am pleased that there is a broad majority on the Stortinget for arms support to Ukraine. The government attaches great importance to keeping the Storting well informed in this matter. We have had regular meetings in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and we will continue to do so. It's especially valuable that such a vast majority of the Biggest gives support to this line. In large parts of the world, the consequences of the war are now felt in Ukraine, but no one pays as high a price as the Ukrainians themselves. More than five million Ukrainians have fled the country, and seven million are internally displaced, including four million children. That's unreal numbers. The needs are enormous. Norway made 2 billion early. humanitarian aid in Ukraine and neighbouring countries. In the first phase of the war, we have been among the biggest donors. We're going to contribute, and we're going to contribute more. Efforts are beneficial: our contributions allow the UN, the Red Cross movement and Norwegian organisations to protect children and women and provide vital help. With Norwegian support, the World Food Programme now provides food for four million people during the month of May. Through the EU, we provide material and medical assistance, and Norwegian health workers, ambulances, tents and cots are in place in Poland. Through the UN, we are helping to keep the core functions of the Ukrainian state going. 200 million. kr in budget support is intended for the remuneration of health professionals, teachers and public servants. Ukraine will need help for a long, long time — first humanitarianly and in the long term to rebuild a devastated country. I know I have the Stortinget with me when I promise that Norway will continue to lead and contribute with our Nordic neighbours, the EU, the United States and other donors. Europe, the United States and a number of other countries have met the Russian aggression with sanctions that are lacking in modern history. The sanctions are our main means of pressuring Russian decision-makers, and they are now reducing Russia's ability to finance the war. Penalties work best when a lot of people are together. Experience has shown that. The main line of the government is that we follow the EU. In several rounds, we have implemented the same sanctions in Norwegian legislation. At the same time, we make our own independent assessments. I have previously informed Stortinget about the need to make thorough assessments of the EU ban on broadcasting and distribution of the media platforms RT and Sputnik. Let there be no doubt: these two, RT and Sputnik, are state-controlled media and are used to spread disinformation and false news. Part of this content is pure war propaganda. Nevertheless, our constitution has a special strong protection of freedom of expression, including: in the case of a prohibition of censorship. Therefore, as the case now stands, the government will not follow up on EU sanctions on this point. As previously communicated, we will join the EU's decision to close ports for Russian ships. We will also implement the ban on Russian road transport. We take time to go through carefully how we design and implement the port ban in Norway. We have Svalbard with facts and rules that require own assessments. We must ensure that we can maintain cooperation with Russia on search and rescue, preparedness and maritime safety in the major northern sea areas. Everyone who travels along the coast of the north is served by it. As coastal states, Norway and Russia are also obliged to cooperate on the management of fish stocks we share. All these considerations need to be weighted. Over 14,500 Ukrainians have now sought protection in Norway. There's a small proportion of all those who have fled Ukraine, but a very high number compared to what we're used to in Norway. By 2022 it was expected that there would be 3 000 asylum seekers in Norway. Now the calculation sample in the foreign area estimates that only 60 000 can be obtained from Ukraine. It includes, as the government has previously announced, up to 500 patients with relatives. 14 patients and 22 relatives have arrived so far. Norway has also agreed to accept 2,500 displaced persons from Moldova, but many of these refugees want to stay so far to be able to return quickly when the war is over. We are now actually planning to receive 30,000 refugees from Ukraine. Should we see arrivals of 60,000 – or as previously announced: 100,000 – it will put us on a historic test. But already with as high arrivals as we have today, all actors are demanding extraordinary efforts: by the police, by the foreign administration, by the municipalities, by the volunteering – yes, by our entire community. Many have worked day and night to deal with the situation. An enormous effort has been made by countless employees in a wide range of institutions, municipalities and organisations. I have met several of them and have been deeply impressed by the efforts that so many Northmen are now making to help vulnerable people seeking security from the war in Norway. I would like to thank everyone of you who is on the verge of accepting people on the run. The effort has been enormous, but when we're going to receive so many refugees in a few short weeks, it challenges the capacity at all stages. Normally there are four pre-settlement processes: registration, reception, residence permit decisions and screening. In several of these areas we have had growing pain, but the pace of all parts of the process before settlement has now increased considerably. The capacity to register refugees has been increased by the establishment of a simplified process by the police and the UDI, and registration sites have been established in 10 out of 12 police districts. With today's level of arrival, the police estimate that by the end of April we will have all those waiting for it. When it comes to reception, it's worth remembering that when the war started in Ukraine, we had about 4,000 reception points in Norway. It's now down to 20,000 places where, in today's situation, we use 9,000. 82 emergency reception stations are established. Bottlenecks in the proceedings for a residence permit decision were promptly resolved when the temporary collective protection scheme was introduced. Before Ukrainians become residents of a municipality, they must be surveyed. These include: to ensure that families live together in the same municipality. Usually we do a comprehensive survey of refugees coming to Norway. When there are so many in such a short time, we cannot follow normal procedures. It'll take too long. The themes affected in the mapping have been reduced from 24 to 3. The computer systems have been adapted to this simplified mapping and crews have been significantly increased. It has taken time, but before Easter the systems were in place. Last week, 720 people were surveyed in reception, and the UDI expects them to be surveyed in the future between 200 and 450 Ukrainians each day. It is higher than the number of arrivals per day in the last weeks. It is also worth recalling that displaced persons from Ukraine will have a significantly shorter residence time in reception than we normally see. In 2021, the average waiting time from residence permit to residence was a little over four months. In 2016, there were five. After screening, Ukrainians can be settled and the municipalities are ready. We expect the settlement to be clear in the days and weeks to come. In the next few weeks, many Ukrainian adults and children will live in Norwegian municipalities. Depending on the number of people arriving in Norway, housing may later become a new bottleneck. Nevertheless, the impatience of municipalities after accepting good laws and making us, from registration to residence, able to accept many displaced persons from Ukraine in a short time. The municipalities have assembled so far reported that they can settle 33,375 in 2022. There are still 32 municipalities that have not responded to the IMDi request. They need some more time. So we're expecting the final number to be higher. 52 municipalities have also reported that they can accept far more than they are requested. Bærum municipality has said they can accept the double – Grägebostad the triple and more. Local communities in our entire country, big and small, set up. The capacity has been increased. We have control now. At the same time, the situation is unpredictable. If we quickly get arrivals that are higher than expected, we can again face capacity challenges. We also face challenges in other areas. 16000 new reception points mean that many operators have arrived on the track in a short time. UDI is working hard to ensure that the accommodation is of good standard. However, critical issues have been identified. The UDI attaches great importance to rapid intervention when problems are identified, such as: did by shutting down an emergency reception at the Furuset, here in Oslo. The situation we are facing also reinforces some of the challenges we already know well. When many people who do not know their rights are going into work, they are increasing, among other things. the risk of social dumping and labour crime. The government is working on several measures to address this and has, among other things, strengthened the Labour Inspectorate by 20 million. NOK 2022. Other challenges are new. Asylum seekers coming to Norway do not normally carry animals. This time it's different. In Ukraine, both rabies and other serious animal diseases occur. We must ensure that pets do not pose a risk to public and animal health. We have therefore informed that all Ukrainian pet animals should be registered with the Food Safety Authority to be ID-labelled, rabies-vaccinated and treated for severe parasites. Food surveillance imposes quarantine where necessary, and the State covers the costs of the actions of the Food Authority. Now more and more attention is focused on what is going to happen in the municipalities. Let me also stress that the police have increased attention to ensure vulnerable people who come to Norway, women and children, so that they are not exposed to adverse events. The government’s objective is to ensure that those displaced from Ukraine can participate in Norwegian society in a timely manner. Children should go to school or kindergarten. Adults must get to work or other activities as soon as possible. In many places, the youngest have started a day - to - day job in Norway. I recently met six-year-old Denys, who had her first day of school at City School in Sandefjord. He was a little shy at first, but on his way to play with the other kids, well-helped by linguists and a safe school management who know how to improvise. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion and I met 13-year-old Misha with his sister and mother at the reception at Helsfyr in March. Then he was silent and looked down. A few weeks after, State Councillor Mjøs Persen met the same boy in a schoolyard in Bergen. He looked up and had learned a good deal of Norwegian words, which were listed in his book – as ‘friend’ and ‘in love’. It's touching, and it gives hope. Before Easter, the government sent out a comprehensive proposal for legislative changes to ensure that municipalities can quickly settle and provide a satisfactory welfare offer. High arrivals, which I have been through, put pressure on welfare services like kindergarten, school and health care. It will be noted, both in host municipalities for reception and in the municipalities where the refugees are settled. Some schemes and services need to be adapted. The Nordics can also notice the consequences of that. The consultation round shows broad support for the need for adaptations. We also got valuable recordings. Several are concerned with the legal protection of lone children coming to Norway. The hearing also underlined the importance of adequate language training for those arriving. The government is now working on evaluating the consultation recordings and will shortly submit a proposal for the Storting with proposals for regulatory changes. This war affects everyday life for people all over the world. The UN's global food price index is at its highest ever. In Norway, the Nordics will notice that more expensive food comes at the top of other expenditures that have also increased, but we will not experience shortages of food in Norway. There's no reason to believe. We do not import cereals from Ukraine and only limited quantities from Russia. But globally, the situation is dramatic. 45 African countries usually import at least one third of the wheat they need from Ukraine or Russia. Once again, the poorest are hit hardest. We know from history, from the French Revolution to the Arab Spring, that the path is short from rising prices of food to social unrest and deep conflicts. I would like to stress to Stortinget that the global effort to prevent hunger and food shortages is critical. For the government, this was a key element of development policy before the war in Ukraine. It's become even more important in the last two months. The war also affects the world’s energy markets permanently and fundamentally. Russia is one of the world's largest oil, gas and coal producers. Once again, we see that the war has both geopolitical implications and consequences for people's everyday lives. Even the Nordics have to prepare for a long-term war to extend the period of high energy prices. For Norway as an energy nation, the consequences can be great. The immediate fact is that Norway’s role as a stable supplier of gas to Europe is becoming even more important, as we also confirm to European partners. At the same time, the war can accelerate Europe's green shift. It is not without reason that renewable energy in Germany has a new name: freedom energy. The war links energy policy, security policy and climate policy in Europe even more closely. As a leading producer and exporter of energy, as part of Europe, Norway and Norway shall participate fully in this green shift. In areas such as sea wind, carbon capture and storage and hydrogen, our contribution can be crucial. The war in Ukraine has implications for the security situation in our neighbourhoods. Finnish and Swedish NATO membership is now a very topical issue. There are fast but thorough processes in both of our neighbouring countries in order to prepare for what could be eradicating changes for Nordic and European security policies. We have had close and continuous contact with Sweden and Finland over these weeks. The results of the assessments carried out on the Swedish and Finnish sides are not yet clear. The choices are entirely the own of Finland and Sweden. Our message has been clear: if they decide to join NATO, they will have full support from Norway. Finland and Sweden are already NATO's closest partners and meet the criteria for membership. These are our closest neighbors. We share basic values. Finnish and Swedish membership will be a strength for NATO. It will strengthen the Nordic voice in the alliance, and it will also open up significantly deeper Nordic defence cooperation. Swedish and Finnish NATO membership is therefore in the interests of Norway’s security policy. In conclusion, we in this room also spend time raising our eyes, finding courage in what we are witnessing – in the midst of all the brutality and gloomy consequences of the war. For many years now, it has been acknowledged that democracy as a form of governance has been weakened. The message from Moscow, Beijing, Tehran – yes, even from Western countries for periods – has been that democracy as a form of government is paralysed. The review tone has been that democracies are weak and that they are fragmented. We have seen that illiberal forces and alternatives to liberal democracy have won out in many places. China’s economic growth and technological progress have created admiration and emerged as a model for many. We have heard discussions about a coming new world order where authoritarian states such as China and Russia are at the centre, where democracies are unable to set the agenda, and where democracies in Europe live in a deep, sleepy peace. But now we see the vitality of liberal democracy, and we see the inherent weaknesses of totalitarian regimes. President Zelenskyj is democratically elected. He has the support and broad legitimacy of the people. His opponent is an authoritarian leader without the legitimacy of free, open and fair elections. The Ukrainians show the power of a people who are fighting for their democracy and for the right to decide for themselves in their own country. Putin's Russia, on the other hand, shows the true face of the totalitarian state, where the population must be lied to and threatened to remain in place. President Putin knew not only that Ukraine's democracy was weak but that Western democracies were weak. But our democracies have also shown strength. The United States, together with allies in Europe, is once again recognisable and leading. Western democracies have jointly adopted historically strict sanctions in record time. Democracies close arms and help to Ukraine at great speed and in great volume. EU cooperation is stronger and more effective than ever, and cooperation in NATO is closer than ever. Europe's largest democracy, Germany, has turned around in record time in security and energy policy. But Russia is now demonstrating for a whole world the weaknesses of an authoritarian form of government. No one dares give the leader bad news or criticism. The last almost free media is shut down, and the brave who dare to raise their voice are beaten up, arrested and imprisoned. There is no balance of power, no checks and balances, no corrections through free elections. There is no public criticism that contributes to trust, legitimacy and good decisions. Democracy can be noisy, unpleasant, and often things take frustrating long. We who exercise democracy daily know that. But there is also an enormous strength in democracy – in the broad democratic processes, a critical press and a free public debate. What is happening in Ukraine, in Europe, in authoritarian Russia, shows how true and how vital it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e298	The President will now, according to Paragraph 45 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, open a comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e303	Thanks to the Prime Minister for the presentation and for keeping Stortinget regularly orientated and involved. Thanks also for the strong emphasis on the power of our democratic values, for while Russia's aggression shows the fear of democracy and the weaknesses of the authoritarian, we see the strength of democracy fully in the will to defend the Ukrainian people. The population of Ukraine is already paying the highest price of the war. In a new phase of the war, there is reason to believe that attacks and destruction will hit the civilian population even harder. Russia has led this war with a brutality that has shocked us all. Norway strongly condemns Russia's actions and must do what we can to investigate the war crimes committed and to prosecute the perpetrators. The Labour Party supports an additional Norwegian armaments support for Ukraine and that the government assesses heavier and more advanced weapons. That is true, but it is also necessary to make these decisions wise, to ensure the necessary safety reasons and to cooperate closely with other countries. With 5 million people fleeing Ukraine and 7 million internally displaced, the need for humanitarian aid is enormous. Norway has contributed and will contribute. Ukraine will need long-term assistance for emergency humanitarian work and in the long term for the reconstruction of the country. Norway has been a significant contributor to rapid humanitarian aid in the first phase of the war. Through these contributions, the UN, the Red Cross and other Norwegian organisations can provide help to refugees. Support for the World Food Programme will provide food for millions of people in the coming months, and through the UN, we will help the Ukrainian state to establish key core functions. Norway has met Russia's attacks with powerful sanctions aimed at decision-makers and at Russia's ability to finance war. We are together with Europe, the United States and a number of other countries on these sanctions. Penalties work best when a lot of people are together. Nevertheless, when Norway makes some exceptions – we have not supported the sanctions against the news outlets Sputnik and Russia Today – and justifies it with the Constitution, it underlines that freedom of expression is a fundamental element of our democracy. It is also necessary to adapt penalties to prevent Russian vessels from accessing Norwegian ports in order to ensure search and rescue in the north and to ensure cooperation on fisheries management. The Ukraine war has shown that solidarity is strong in the Norwegian population. Many will help, and more municipalities are more than ready to accept Ukrainians — give them housing, school, kindergarten, activity, facilitating work, and through it provide an opportunity to normalize everyday life. The impatience we must be pleased with, and with the system changes that are now being made, the rate of settlement will be faster already this week. Thank you very much to all those who contribute to it, for the situation requires a lot of many, both in the municipalities that have received and where people are to be settled. Some of the refugees will be, but many want to go back to their homeland as quickly as possible. Then it is also reasonable to adapt the law to the situation. Then we also enable the municipalities to receive even more. There is a broad consensus on Norwegian security policy and Norway’s foreign policy line. It's a strength for our country. Now we have a refugee situation that will challenge us, then also a good cooperation here on the Storting will be even more important than for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e322	From the demonstrations in Maidan in 2014 until today, the Ukrainian people have shown that what they want is democracy, a market economy opportunity, and not least the freedom to make their own choices about the future of the country. It is quite natural for countries seeking freedom to receive support from other democracies and countries seeking freedom, such as Norway. That Russia cannot tolerate a neighbouring country that is both successful, wants a western direction and develops a stronger democracy is not something we can accept. The right of each country to make its own choices, the right of each country's population to make these choices, must be firmly established in our place of stand. Now we also see that the Ukrainians are perhaps paying the absolute greatest and worst price you can do, with a totalitarian state that invades them with violent and, by all likelihood, war crimes, with atrocities toward civilians. It's bad to look at, and it makes us have to be clear in our help. The government therefore has our support in helping us. We wanted more help before the war broke out, because we saw all the clues. We are pleased that the government has come on the track after the war has broken out, and we believe that it is important that we try to find out essentially together about these issues. However, we have sometimes called for clarifications, because it is important that we stand together as closely as possible and take action quickly with other countries. I understand that the Prime Minister is now warning that it will take longer to clarify which ports and what legislation it should be, but it is also urgent. For the longer and the more days Norway has an open regulatory framework, the easier it will be for us to be exploited. The longer it takes before we figure out what sanctions we're going to have in Norwegian ports, the greater the possibility that we get ships in that we don't have access elsewhere, and it's going to be perceived as having a different profile. So even if we agree that we have to make some Norwegian adjustments, we demand the pace of these assessments. It is also true that, in the future, we should both say that there is an advantage for us with NATO membership from our neighbouring countries, and support the work they are doing — even internally in NATO if they choose to go that way. We must be able to state that NATO membership for Sweden and Finland will not only increase the security of Sweden and Finland, it will increase Norway’s security. It will increase NATO's presence in the north. In fact, it will help us to be stronger in the Northern Alliance. We have tried to try to agree as much with the government as possible. I thank you for the presentation now, I thank you for the information that is also given in other forums, and I believe that it is important. But I also want answers to some important questions. I understand that the Norwegian Constitution provides the basis for what we can or cannot prohibit in Norway. But if it is that we cannot prohibit – because we have a great deal of protection in our constitution – statements from Sputnik and other bodies that are engaged in pure forgery and false news, is the question to the government: What kind of work will the government do to prevent this from drifting into Norway and affecting Norwegian political debate? We see that it does. We have tabled proposals on this from the right. We believe that it is important that we work on how we can limit information in other ways. Obscured websites are used. There is no guarantee that the discussion will remain there. It's spreading into Norwegian society. It's true that there are a lot of people doing a lot of work for all the refugees who are coming, and that's very good. I register that the government will now have some temporary exceptions from the laws. It's fine. There have been proposals from the previous government twice about this in the Stortinget. They're depressed. I think we might now see that there is a need to get this kind of law. I am pleased that you will come along with that, and we have submitted a document proposal on some of this earlier, which is now pending, because the government's own proposal is coming. But we've also wanted a fast track. What's special about the situation of refugees coming now is that unlike normal, this person is with an identity. These are people we know who is. That means that we could put them into work much faster. That is why we want the work permits to be given much faster. The Prime Minister said they'd get work from day one. Now it's been eight weeks for part of them. They have not yet received a work permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e339	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. The attack on Ukraine represents, in many ways, the beginning of a new era in Europe, a permanent change in our security environment. The Russian attack is an attack on democracy and freedom and with it the distinction between nation states is also confirmed with a democratic community of interests and an increasingly authoritarian Russia. It is a strength for Norway that the whole political environment has shown a desire and a willingness to support Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Norway has recently decided to donate Mistral air defence missiles, an effective and modern weapon that will be of great benefit to Ukrainians fighting on the ground. The government has previously decided to donate to a total of 4000 panserver rockets and also several types of protective equipment and other military equipment. So what the Prime Minister says, the conflict in Ukraine can be long-lasting and the country will depend on further international support to resist the Russian aggression. The Central Party supports the signals provided by the Prime Minister on these issues, including: Norway contributes 400 million. kr to a British-led mechanism for the purchase of arms and military materials. Russian warfare has caused 12 million people to flee — many internally displaced and many who have fled Ukraine. Norway, as emphasised by the Prime Minister, must continue to contribute financially in Ukraine to humanitarian aid, including: through the UN, through the Red Cross and through the World Food Programme. And Norway must be prepared to accept those who are now coming to Norway. It's going to require an extraordinary effort by a lot of people in this society. There are many who will help, and it is good to see that Ukrainian refugees are met with respect and solidarity. Nevertheless, as the Prime Minister says, it is important that the reception of refugees in Norway takes place in order, at the same time as an applicant for as much flexibility as possible. There is a continuous weighing that the government has to do all the time, and that one also takes responsibility for doing. The international sanctions imposed on Russia are formidable and should create the massive pressure we want. Norway should be part of that pressure, but it is also right that we make our own assessments in some areas. The centre party therefore supports the fact that blocking Russian media can run counter to freedom of expression, and that at this point we need to make a maritime assessment. It is in any case that disinformation and false news should first and foremost be met with truth, not censorship. We are going to commit ourselves to sanctions in the form of closures of ports and Russian road transport, but here too we need to look at how we choose to design the ban – spending time on it is important. Our role as a coastal state and therefore our responsibility for search and rescue in the Barents Sea, preparedness and resource management in the northern regions is just that. Already in 1949, when Norway became a member of NATO, it was clear that Norway needed organised cooperation in defence and security policy to ensure its independence. The Second World War had made Norway’s vulnerable strategic position visible, and the Atlantic Pact provided the basis for a whole new direction of Norwegian security policy. With that also Norway confirmed that we cannot put ourselves indifferent to the ideological struggle between democracy and totalitarian rule. It has been shown throughout the post-war period. Even now, it is important that Norway cooperates with our partners and allies. Together, we have shown the ability to adapt to a demanding situation, to mobilise support and to stand together in a crisis that will shape us for many years to come. We must give priority to cohesion, we must seek multilateral solutions and we must coordinate closely with our partners and allies. If Finland and Sweden were to decide to enter NATO, it would be a strength for regional Nordic defence cooperation. It will strengthen the community, and it will also be in our own security policy interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e358	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the presentation. There is a terrible war, which is getting worse and worse, with babies being killed, and with people who survived the Holocaust, who unfortunately have been killed by Putin's bombs. What's going on is completely cruel. The Progress Party has supported the arms deliveries made by the government, and we hope that we will work on this further. It also confirmed the Prime Minister. It is important that we maintain Norwegian defence capability and that it is at the bottom. We've long arranged that we should give money to Ukraine, so that they can buy in weapons, and are happy that this is happening. We want to increase assistance, because, as the Prime Minister was in it, the needs are enormous. That's why we should have put an even larger amount in the past to deal with it. Then the Progress Party is concerned about the pace of the settlement of refugees. It just doesn't last. We see that thousands of people are in reception, and the municipalities are ready to accept them. They've found shelters, and they've got school places and kindergartens ready. Last week it lived approx. 100 people — despite the fact that thousands had been treated for their applications. I hope now that we take action, as the Prime Minister said, and that we see that those arrests are of rapid importance. We read one thing yesterday about Ukrainian Mira. She speaks Norwegian fluently because she studied and worked in Norway earlier, so she returned to Norway when the war broke out and got a job offer from the former employer. She was then told by UDI to obtain a temporary work permit from the police. She didn't. They did not know how to process the application, so she did not get a work permit. We just can't have it like that. We also know that many of those who come from Ukraine have biometric passports, and then you should be able to solve this much faster than what we now see. This is a frustration, of course, both for those who are involved, and for those who want to hire these people. The Progress Party welcomes the defence of freedom of expression. It's in those issues where it's hard to stand up for freedom of expression, and it's also important that we do in this context. There is an understanding that it is demanding to impose sanctions on ports, but we are impatient to do so. Then it is gratifying that it goes against membership in NATO, both from Finland and Sweden. It's going to strengthen this alliance considerably. In particular, Finland, with all its defence capabilities, will make a significant contribution to the alliance. I read to my amazement in the VG today that the government's support wheel SV in the middle of this proclamation that Norway should leave NATO, and even that a Nordic defence alliance should be established. It's hard to understand what planet you're on when you're in the world's current situation, and you're still left with these ideas. I hope the Prime Minister will see to it that Norway does what we can to ensure that both Finland and Sweden can be admitted to NATO as soon as possible, because this is very positive. Finally, there was this matter of believing in democracy and politicians. Then it's important that we respond to people's challenges, and I believe that this hall is not doing at all in terms of people's economic situation now, among other things. as a result of the Ukraine War. What is now happening with fuel prices, food prices and electricity prices is taking a toll on the economy of many. This applies to both ordinary people, and to businesses, which are now struggling heavily. I think it's a shame that you don't see how important it is, and take extra grip on this as well. It would have been good, and it would also strengthen the reputation of the politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e379	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good presentation, for the ability to highlight democracy and to create faith in such a demanding situation, and also for raising political solutions and reiterating support for initiatives around conversations. For over two months, Putin has waged his war against Ukraine, cities are destroyed, schools and hospitals, and very many human lives have been lost in Putin's illegal and reprehensible warfare. Week after week, young people have sought refuge in basements and T-Bahn stations. In besieged areas, people suffer from a shortage of food and water. It's heartwarming to see the great human suffering. SV stands in solidarity with the Ukrainian people and the heroic resistance struggle they wage. That is why it is good that the government has shown so clearly the will and initiative to accept Ukrainian refugees. Many have arrived, and more will come. UDI is working intensively to raise the asylum reception capacity. In SV we are concerned that they do not have the capacity to follow up the receptions that are created sufficiently and in a good enough way. Then there is a risk that unprofessional operators will not be caught, which could affect both employees and residents at reception. In 2015 and 2016, there were cases of use of residents on reception, in particular reception where operators and employees were new and had no experience of operating from before. There is currently no independent system of supervision for beneficiaries of asylum, and therefore SV has made a proposal in Stortinget to establish independent supervision for beneficiaries of asylum. I would like to stress the importance of cooperating also in order to protect women and children from the threat of trafficking in human beings and the threat posed by it. I would also like to stress the importance of securing refugees coming to Norway, working early — in a serious working life in order. Although five million Ukrainians have fled their country, most are still in Ukraine. Therefore, humanitarian aid to the country is essential. Norway has shown itself and should continue to act as a humanitarian act in Ukraine. Fortunately, the attacks against Kyiv have stopped, but the war is in no way over. Much indicates that Russia’s focus is in the east, and many refugees have returned home. They come to bombed and burned out houses. At some point, there will be a need to rebuild the country. SV hopes that Norway can contribute to the long-term assistance. The consequences of the war will last a long time, but if we are to make the transition as easy as possible, we cannot wait until everything is over. Ukraine's economy has collapsed as a result of the war. It is good that Norway contributes funds to the Treasury, so that teachers, doctors and other personnel receive the salary they will receive, but paradoxically, Ukraine pays to the same multilateral financial institutions they receive support from. The foreign debt of Ukraine is SEK 54 billion. the dollar, half to multilateral financial institutions such as the IMF and the World Bank. SV believes that the war-torn country must have its foreign debt extinguished and that Norway, as a Member State and a donor, should order the financial institutions to stop the collection requirements. The security policy situation has changed as a result of the war, and SV has deep respect for the debates that are taking place in other countries as well. We wholeheartedly support the challenge of stepping up civil protection and strengthening defence. I would like to stress the importance of strong measures for business and social life in East Finland – which bear the consequences of the economic sanctions imposed by Russia – and the importance of spending the necessary time to implement port policy in a way that preserves our common seas, including here looking at the communities affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e394	Let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister for coming to the Stortinget to explain the government's support for Ukraine. I would like to stress that the government has the full back coverage of the Left to contribute financially, so that Ukraine can buy the weapons and the materials they need, even though I would also add that Ukraine had needed that support a long time ago, and that I would have liked it to be more than 400 million. kr. Prime Minister Støre's analysis of the situation in Ukraine has been good and nuanced, and he put forward what everyone thought when he described Putin's last attack on Ukraine as a roadblock in Norway and in Europe's relationship with Russia. Just because the Prime Minister's analysis and look at the war has been so sharp, I had expected more and faster action from the government. I thought I would allow myself a little historical departure in this post, because I know that the Prime Minister has great respect for former German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, who passed away in 2015. In 2012, Prime Minister Schmidt met a private visit to Hamburg, and to the NRK, Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre, said: ‘He is a source of European values on complex past, demanding contemporary and open future’. Schmidt was, but he was also a man of action. In 1976, Helmut Schmidt said that I would rather the government do the right thing than philosophize about what's right. I've been thinking a lot about this Schmidt quotation since the invasion began in February, and I know that it's becoming an increasingly up-to-date description of the way the Norwegian government deals with the war. The reason why I refer to Schmidt in this case is that I share the Prime Minister's analysis of what is happening in Ukraine, but I feel that the government does not draw the same consequences of the Prime Minister's analysis and Ukraine's need for immediate and unhindered support. I really don't understand why the Prime Minister's own very dramatic description of the situation doesn't make us more impatient to secure Ukraine the support it needs now. We were early in the field and demanded financial support so that Ukraine could buy weapons. On 3 March, we presented proposals in Stortinget in the year 1 billion. kr for arms purchase, because even though Norway is not a military power, our ability to contribute is significantly greater. Moreover, financial support will not weaken our own defence capabilities in the same way as donations of weapons, which could otherwise have defended Norway, and it will not be as difficult to transfer the money as weapons. All this speaks for the fact that Norway could have provided financial armaments several weeks ago. The EU already supported such support on 28 February through the European Peace Facility. Norway could have chosen to contribute there at an earlier stage in order to strengthen the common European approach to the war in Europe. The disadvantage of money over weapons is that it will take more time for the Ukrainians to acquire what they need. That is why it has been so important to get this support in place early. The Ukrainians needed the money a long time ago. We've seen the same thing about the introduction of a port ban on Russian ships. Here the United Kingdom was leading by a ban as early as 1 March. Together with Elvesuen, Bjørlo and Högstøl, I proposed the same thing on March 3rd – the same proposal the Prime Minister himself rejected as ‘uncurrent’ on the same day that President Zelensky requested it in his speech to the Stortinget. In the meantime, the EU has decided on its own port ban, which entered into force on 16 April. On questions from Dagbladet, the Swedish Council of State said that it is too early to say anything about when the work is done, but that it has a high priority. In the meantime, Norway has become a free port for Russian vessels in practice. The fact that Norway spends more time imposing a port ban than an association of 27 national states does is difficult to understand. I doubt that this was the kind of action that Helmut Schmidt had in mind when he spoke about the need for active governments. It is not possible to go back in time and ensure faster decisions, nor is it the reason why I mention this in my post on this occasion, but because I do not want this to be the pattern for the continuation. We need to have a faster pace of continued armament support for Ukraine, as well as the imposition of sanctions. The goal cannot be for Ukraine to take up this war in slow motion. The goal must be to win it. It is about their future, about our future and about the future of liberal democracy. So it's not just important what we contribute, which we of course fully support, but at what rate we do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e423	Red condemns the fiercest international war in Russia against Ukraine. Let's not doubt it: it's the Putin regime that says 100 pst. responsible for the war, which has now lasted for two months. We see a Russia that uses weaponry to attack territory, and a Russia that kills civilians, plunders and rapes where they move forward. We also see a heroic willingness to defend the Ukrainians. Contrary to many assumptions, they have shown that ordinary guardians and reservists, when well organized and defending their own country, can stand against a powerful overpower. I hope this will have consequences for defence planning here in Norway, as for many years we have overinvested in foreign affairs and underinvested in the Defence here at home. Red beats the ring around international law against any attack by any attacker. We support the right of all peoples to decide for themselves, and there is no contradiction between condemning the artillery of Putin in Ukraine and condemning the bombing of Kurds by NATO in Iraq. On the contrary, these positions are related. In the past, Støre has said that NATO is a defence alliance; NATO does not threaten anyone. But the Afghans, who were occupied by NATO for 20 years, weren't they threatened? What about the Libyans, who were bombed by NATO countries and got their land destroyed, neither were they threatened? There is no reason to smooth this out, even though Russia is now violating international law. Red is against NATO, as we are against all the major act alliances, and we believe that Afghans, Libyans, Iraqis and Palestinians have the right to self-determination, just as the Ukrainians, of course, have. So it's a question of what's going on with the NATO military alliance in the future. In 1946, Einar Gerhardsen’s position was that Nordic neighbouring countries cooperated to secure each other. We can also work for whether Sweden and Finland sign up for NATO. If they do, at least two ways can work. One is that Norway is passive, that Sweden and Finland become members without setting their own terms, and that they open their countries to American bases, as Norway is doing, which will increase tension in the north and are contrary to our interests. They can have a debate on defence policy similar to our own. How many planes and frigates do we have to send to regions far beyond NATO's own area in order for the United States to want to defend us if necessary? Another scenario is that Norway engages in active dialogue with Sweden and Finland, plus Denmark and Iceland, and together we find out how to safeguard our interests – whether they become a member or not – and discuss what conditions guarantee countries sovereignty, such as the Norwegian condition of no foreign bases or nuclear weapons on our land. We can also work together to get the most defence and the least possible attack. Together, we have a defence that is larger than Ukraine's. If they go into NATO, we can work together because the alliance goes away from its first nuclear strategy. What can come out of the situation of security policy in a good way is whether NATO supporters and opponents are joining forces to make the defence of Nordic countries more Nordic and less dependent on major powers. We stand together in the condemnation of Russia's attack, in solidarity with the Ukrainians, and together in sending relief aid, money and medical devices. The need for greater effort is only growing every day with wars going on. Finally, a question to Prime Minister Støre for the next round: How wise is it if the Stortinget adopts a bilateral base agreement with the United States just before Sweden and Finland decide whether they will apply for NATO membership and even before the Defence Commission has done its thorough work, delivered its report to the Stortinget and had it discussed in the National Assembly? Could it be an idea that corruption and government will look at the situation, what will happen to major changes in the North in the coming months, and also take into account the Commission's work before locking us into a base agreement with the Americans?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e444	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good presentation. The Green Party broadly supports the line followed by the government. We also support the government's desire now to provide financial support to strengthen Ukraine's defence capabilities. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has changed Europe overnight, and it has heightened the security that many Nordics once took for granted. The invasion has been a reflection of the security policy situation in Norway and Europe. In record time, the EU has gathered on tough financial sanctions. Sweden and Finland have made a complete turnaround and are now considering submitting applications for NATO membership before the summer. Ukraine, for its part, has applied for membership of the EU. In view of this, we in the Greens/Greens/EFA believe that it is unwise for the government to investigate how Norway can break free from European cooperation. This is not the time for solitude, but for cohesion. We in the Green Party have long been pragmatic followers of Norwegian NATO membership, and we have been very positive in cooperation with Europe, among others. in climate and energy policy. While the countries around us are in a difficult economic situation, we in Norway make a lot of money at higher oil and gas prices. It gives us a great opportunity, and it gives us a responsibility to contribute more. In view of this, the Greens believe that it is unworthy that the government does not exclude taking money that would go to the poorest in the world to finance the reception of Ukrainian refugees. The Green Party believes that Norway should rather include exceptional oil and gas revenues in a Solidarity Fund for aid and reconstruction of Ukraine and to help Europe with the transition from Russian oil to renewable energy, and to give more to the world's poorest countries, affected by higher food prices. War is assault, war crimes, and death. The reports we get about the attacks on the civilian population in Ukraine are heartbreaking. There have been serious war crimes and crimes against people. We are witnessing the greatest refugee crisis in Europe since World War II. But the war in Ukraine has also shown some of our best sides. People in Norway and in many other European countries have opened their doors to refugees. As a child of a child who in 1968 got here to Norway from the war in Vietnam, it is good to see the commitment many now show to help the refugees from Ukraine. But I think a lot of Norwegians also know about a lump in their throats. The poet Sumaya Jirde Ali recently published a poem that consists only of quotes from media coverage of the war – journalists who are shocked that people with blue eyes and blonde hair can be victims of war acts, or who explain that these refugees are wealthy middle-class people, not obvious refugees. Jirde's poem is an important reminder that we had a refugee crisis even before the war in Ukraine, and that not all of these refugees have been met with the futility and care they deserve. Europe has increasingly become a fortress that allows thousands of people to die on dangerous voyages across the Mediterranean. In Norway, we have put in place tough restraints with the explicit aim of scaring people from fleeing here. Even when the Moria camp burned in Greece, Norway was able to receive more than 50 people. Now we see that it was not the resources that were missing, but the will. In the future, I hope that we will be able to take care of the commitment and the warmth of the heart that people across Norway are now showing to help other people in a desperate situation. There we have politicians a leading role, and I hope that we will lead to showing the same concern to everyone who, unfortunately, will be running away in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e462	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. It is incredible to take on board what we see of Russia's war crimes – attacks on civilian, huge humanitarian suffering, and that human dignity is being trampled on every single day in Europe. It is more important than ever to stand up for democracy, raise human dignity, defend central European values and fundamental human rights. More than 10 million Ukrainians are fleeing from the atrocities of war. 5.2 million have fled the country. More than half of Ukraine's children are displaced from their own homes. It's hard for us to get the dimensions. Poland has soon received 3 million refugees. Romania and Hungary have received 750,000 and 500000 refugees. Moldova has received 430,000. Last week, the government revealed how many Ukrainian refugees Norway has officially taken to the country. It was about 30-- not 30,000, not 3,000, but three zeros. And the prime minister himself said it: 14 patients with relatives. It's not impressive. The Prime Minister also said in his statement that Norway should lead the course of the crisis with other countries. Here the Prime Minister is given the opportunity to show that he is serious about getting both an active extraction of refugees and a different rate of settlement. We must actively accept more refugees from neighbouring countries who now experience greater burdens than they can handle. We must help to secure humanitarian aid. We must take initiatives to combat trafficking in human beings and criminal groups exploiting vulnerable women and children. We need to strengthen the Norwegian police force to establish units for this work in all police districts. Norway is facing a solid task of accepting, including and integrating tens of thousands of refugees from Ukraine. But now it's too late. Only 330 out of 7000 refugees who have accepted their applications are now resident in a municipality. Can the Prime Minister answer what more and more municipalities are asking: Why is it so late? Before the weekend, a proposal came up to resolve this system, so that those who come from Ukraine will have the opportunity to decide for themselves where they want to live, without losing the introduction support. It's a proposal that has a lot to do. Today, many people live on reception for too long because they are otherwise at risk of losing support. Increased levels of self-settlement will give those who come, greater control over their own lives. We have to use the links that already exist between people. Then refugees will get to a municipality faster, the kids will get to school and kindergarten faster, and adults will get to work faster. Volunteering with their organisations, teams and associations, building relationships, friendships and creating integration. Moving around and forwarding is integration into reverses. Yes, we have to use the whole country, we have to use the competence of all municipalities, but we have to dare to think again, put people in front of the system. We need to create synergies between public, voluntary and community. Municipalities and volunteering are ready. Finally, the Christian People's Party has said before and we say it again. The bill for doing this mission, receiving refugees from Ukraine – the Christian People's Party is crystal clear: we cannot and should not send that bill to the world's poorest and the most vulnerable to withdrawing aid. I can't. The Christian People's Party does not want Norway to be the largest beneficiary of aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e479	I thank the parties for what I experience is broad support for the main points of how we meet this war: Norway should stand up, be solidarity, take joint responsibility – and then it is an understandable expression of the desire for a higher pace in many areas. It's an ambition I share. To the representative of Bollestad, who says that we have to put people ahead of the system: I explained that we have had a broad review of the entire legislative and regulatory system to look at simplifications, just to make progress, and it will come to Stortinget very quickly – in just a short time. As for the pace, which the representative of Bollestad has complained about – well, we are on our way to 30 000, 60 000, 100 000. It's a big challenge for Norway, and we're getting ready to do it in a good way. I would like to thank the representative, Mr Solberg, for coming together. To what she says about the concern that people don't come to work from day one, I'll be allowed to say that the law is so that at the moment you've been given collective protection, you can go to work – from that moment on. Obviously, if you live in a reception room, you might want to wait to take that job until you get to the municipality, but in principle, formally, you can start working immediately. I have faith, as I said, that the settlement is going to take a heavy toll. It's about getting the systems in place, so people are mapped and able to travel together to the municipalities they're going to live in. Then the representative Listhaug was concerned that Norway should do what we can to get Sweden and Finland into NATO. Then I'll be a little bit more detailed about it. I said that if Finland and Sweden make their choice, I think it will be in the interests of Norway's security policy. But I have experienced that both Sweden and Finland stress that they will neither be pushed in nor be prevented from coming in. It's their choice. These are very well-established democracies, who have their processes, for which we have great respect, but I am doing the analysis: if their application comes, Norway will welcome it, and I am saying today: I believe that a united North in NATO will be in the interests of Norway's security policy. I would also like to agree with the representative of Bergstø on this with a view to protecting us from trafficking in human beings. It was a field where Ukrainian women and children were exposed before the war, and of course they are no less vulnerable when millions are fleeing, with all the uncertainty that lies around it. Then I got a good memory from my meeting with Helmut Schmidt in 2012. But I have to say that the statement from the representative Melby that we're philosophizing rather than doing the right thing, I'm just taking the distance from it. There has been action that has been in focus all the way. I think the representative should understand that giving weapons, transporting weapons and understanding the needs also requires a little thought. It also requires dialogue and coordination with other countries, not least where weapons are to come, in order to do so in a good way. Norway has joined all the EU sanctions – I made the exception on these two media. How do we meet it – the representative Solberg asked about it – and I think my answer will be: We meet it with truth – not censorship, but with source criticism. And I'm not afraid that the Norwegian public can't resist it. We're going to be able to do that, to take the debate, it even runs Red with, in its backland, and I think that's a good way to do it. To the representative of Moxnes, Norway does not get more bases from the United States in Norway because the representative of Moxnes says so. We have a policy of not having bases. We're going to have practice, practice, with our allies. We're going to fix that. Then I agree with the representative that the Ukrainians are doing a heroic defense effort. I am not so impressed with the contribution of the Red Party to that effort. They're against us giving them help, they're against getting the perfectly obvious right to defend themselves. And then I just want to, for history, completely reject that Afghanistan was occupied by NATO. NATO countries made unanimous decisions in the UN Security Council to protect the world and to counter new terrorist attacks, and in the same way, what happened in Libya was based on a Security Council resolution that legitimizes the use of power, in stark contrast to what we now see. Here's a lot we're going to follow up. We're doing it well, and I look forward to coming back to the Storing in a similar way and explaining, in the bodies of the Storing, but also in the open hall, the situation with regard to the war in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e502	The comment round has thus ended. The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on the war in Ukraine be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e520	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e529	I would first like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter, and I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue for Finnmark in general. The Finnmark race is a traditional dog race that binds Finnmark between East and West and intervenes in large parts of both East and Finmark, West and Inner Finnmark. It is quite unique in world-class hangings and creates both business and enthusiasm in large parts of Finnmark. I find that a joint committee is a big fan of the Finnmark race's activity. Then it is suggested that one should continue a specific project linked to the Finnmark race. That's where the committee lay. There the government party points out that the Finnmark race must be seen in conjunction with the rest of the instrument, while a minority, including the proposers, believe that there must be a continuation of the established project from last year, of 5 million. kr, for this profiling project. It also appears that the proposals that have been put forward in the matter are being put forward. I can say for my own part and for SV's part that we have also submitted a loose proposal. SV is subject to a budgetary agreement with the government party, which means that we cannot enter into alternative budget pluralities with other parties. The government can't do that either. That would have been a breach of the budget agreement. But we think the project is so important that we have a formulation – which I hope and believe we can get a big deal on – that says that one should start a dialogue with the Finnmark race from the government. Then the government will report back in the context of the revised state budget. It may be that the printing of the revised state budget is already well under way, and that it may be difficult to obtain text there now, but in the context of the revised budget it may also be in the form of some additional information letters from the government. With that, I take up my own proposal on the matter, and I thank you again for a good cooperation in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e550	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e555	Let me start by stressing that both me and the Workers' Party believe that the Finnmark race is an important event. The Finnland race shows our northernmost part of the country in a fantastic way, and the course between Alta and the cities of the Church in excitement, local involvement, unique nature and international attention. As a born Finnmarking, I am actually very proud that the Finnmark race has got the ‘stand’ it has. Firefighters and pioneers have built this project up until today's institution. But this proposal is not about supporting the Finnmark race itself, because there is a great deal of consensus about it being a good event. The proposal is about supporting a development project to build the brand and use the Finnmark cycle as a catalyst for nutrient development in the region around the race. This is definitely a worthwhile project, and in Norway we have built up a system and a device to manage precisely such projects, namely the instrument tool – or Innovation Norway, if you like. It gives everyone throughout the country equal opportunities to seek funding for good bets, instead of getting individual projects into the state budget after who's in government or who's yelling the highest. It may seem that most of the parties on the Stortinget agree that such development projects do not belong as individual items on the State budget, at least when you see the budgets for 2022. The right and left were snares to remove this post when the Progress Party left the government. Red has also not included this project in its alternative budgets. Had the parties thought that there was a project that should have a separate post on the state budget, they had put it in. The Labour Party believes that the Finnmark race is important for our northern region, and the race creates local involvement and hard work in local communities around the county. It is important that the region is given the opportunity to develop the brand name and economic development around the race. That is why I encourage the project promoters to apply to Innovation Norway for these funds. Even though it might feel easy to jump on and get it into single posts, we know that it would trigger a step by others who want the exact same thing. But it's an important project and an important investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e570	We're in a situation where travel life tries to get back up after the covid-19 pandemic. In Finland, we are also struggling with the consequences of sanctions against Russia, which have a significant impact on many businesses, especially in eastern Finland. In addition, we have to work to reverse a negative population development in the region. It is then important to see how we can easily help create new opportunities for value creation and jobs. The Finnmark race is a golden occasion, in the view of the Advance Party. The Finnmark race is Europe's longest, largest and most famous dog race with its 1,200 km, which is a tour of Alta-Churches. The only comparable race in its kind is Iditarod, which runs through Alaska. The Finnmark race is already well reported in the media, both Norwegian and foreign, and has already moved to become a well established brand. Every year, more than 120 participants come from around 15 nations. This is a sports event that creates a lot of activity among many partners and voluntary actors. In particular, it generates a lot of income for other business activities, such as for hotels and travel businesses offering experiences in connection with the race, which gives about. 4 500 extra nights. The Finnish race only triggers a small part of a large potential for the whole region. The organizers of the Finnmark race, together with Troms and Finnmark County Municipality, have the job of establishing a three-year project to trigger more activity and strengthen Troms and Finnmark as a brand. It shall take place both through development and infrastructure, contribute to industrial development projects and expose an international audience to even more images of beautiful arctic nature and culture. If such a cooperation project is realised, it will give rise to a promise throughout the region. The Finnland race can become a catalyst for business activities and cultural events, not only during the period of duration, but also during the year. The previous government provided funds to the Finnmark race in the budget for 2021. Today's government cuts the funds again, that's just 5 million. kr each year for a three-year period. This is small money compared to projects for which the government otherwise finds money. That's why it's very disappointing that it was here that the new government wanted to cut. In the setting-up of a committee, the Finnmark race may be unreservedly boasted by all lots. A majority of government parties, SV and the Green Party are voting against securing funding for the project, but it is never too late to turn around. So I encourage all of the games to take an extra round in the mind box. I take up the proposal on which the Progress Party is involved, and I would like to inform you that we will subsidly support proposal No. 2, from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e585	Then the representative Terje Olsen raised the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e590	The Finnmark race, which runs between Alta and Kirkenes, is Europe’s longest and largest dog race. There's a lot more than that, it's also a good tool to promote Norway – and most of it is North Norway. As we have mentioned in the debate, the Finnmark cycle creates a great deal of activity in the population and business in the area. It gives international interest to North Norway as travel destinations and prizes for value creation throughout the year. It has strong support for local and regional policy and business populations. As an example of one of several positive predictions about the race can be called NordNorwegian Travel Life, which I believe the project fits well into a brand strategy to make North Norway known both in Norway and internationally – or the NHO Travel Life, which suggests an additional investment on the Finnmark race would be positive for the development of Finnmark as a travel goal. That's clear speech. As you know, there is a negative population development in North Norway, and in Finnmark in particular. It's very important to be able to reverse developments in our northern region. In this perspective, tourism, as one of the largest industries in the region, plays a decisive role. In the process of turning this negative development, the Finnmark race can play an important role. Right will therefore support the submission of the Progress Party: ‘The Finnmark Race — A Tool for Promoting Norway’. So we want to support a work on how to exploit, strengthen and develop the brand name Finnmark as a catalyst for creating new industries and jobs. The potential for creating activities and jobs associated with, and synergies with, the event is much greater than what is being realised today. If this potential is to be realised, it must be worked strategically and systematically over time. The Finnmark race does not have muscles to bear such a project on its own, nor can the ordinary instrument provide sufficient financial help. State aid is therefore necessary, as the proposal puts it. North Norway, especially travel, needs the supported Finnmark race to provide good branding, advertising, attractiveness and synergy, not least after the pandemic has engulfed travel life and travel destinations. Then the state must also follow up with support. Then I announce that the Right subsidiary will support the loose proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e603	The Finnmark race is Europe's longest dog race, and it is one of the largest and most important events in Finnmark and North Norway throughout the year. It has also received the VM status within dog running in 2023. This is, as many people have said before, an event that deals with more than sport and dog running, even if it is important in itself. It is also one of the largest events to put Finnmark and North Norway on the map internationally. I would also like to point out from the left side that the matter we are dealing with here today is not about an operating premium for the Finnmark race, because this event is on its own, but it is about a three-year split team to take out more nutritional effects of the event. We from the left think it's right that we're now in and we're completing this three-year run. We're in a period when we're in a better position in North Norway in general, and Finnmark in particular is more important than ever. Without me going into detail, I think we can actually do it under important, positive things that are already happening in Finnmark, this spring is more important than ever before. This is an event that helps many more people become familiar with Finnmark, sees the potential of Finnmark and helps to build the country together in this way. That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is supporting this proposal. 1 which is in the hall today, where we ask the government to engage in dialogue with the Finnmark race to continue and secure funding for the three-year project on the Finnmark race and come back to Stortinget about it. The left also comes subsidiaryly, if this is not presented, to support the SV, which has been provided as a loose proposal today. There is a slightly more vague and non-committal proposal; it is not an adequate alternative to the left, right, forward, and red, but it is, after all, better than nothing. We're going to do our job to secure multiples for today's presentation. The most important thing I think is – as I experience from all the speakers here today, including speakers from the government party – that one looks at the Finnmark race as a special positive and good event. No matter what's going to get multiples or not multiples in the hall today, I'm going to strongly encourage the government to look at what's possible so that we can work together and take out the greatest possible potential around this race, because it seems like all the speakers and parties in this room today are a few things about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e618	I want to start by giving homage and heartfelt thanks to all the fires that are behind the Finnmark race. The Finnmark race is a fantastic event, and I am very pleased that this is confirmed by a great international interest, not least now by the fact that the Finnmark race has been awarded the World Cup for 2023. I don't know if everyone in our country knows how much recognition this is. I am impressed by how the Finnmark race has built stone on stone to establish itself as a strong national and international brand, among others. through the successful efforts to promote culture in connection with the event. This is an example of follow-up. The representatives Listhaug, Hemdal, Bjørnstad and Strifeldt suggest that the government engage in dialogue with the Finnmark race in order to continue the project «The Finnmark race – A tool for promoting Norway» in 2022 and 2023. I am absolutely sure that in the work on the project there are a lot of exciting thoughts and ideas about how the nutritional potential that lies in and around the Finnmark race can be better exploited. Fortunately, in Norway, we have a well-developed tool that is available for guidance in connection with and financing industrial development. It is therefore most appropriate, in my view, that the Finnmark race discuss these thoughts and ideas with, for example. Innovation Norway. So in order not to create any doubt, I am very excited about the Finnmark race itself, what the company has achieved, that the event is on its own, and not least the work, motivation and ambition of contributing to the nutritional potential. It can certainly be exploited better. What this matter is about is whether we should allocate specific funds to this project via the State budget. In that case, I believe that one should at least first try the instrument and see what opportunities lie there. We have a large and diverse instrument that manages billions of dollars, and it is those who are best suited to assess which projects should be supported. There has been agreement under various governments, and I guess that was also the reason why the previous government in its last government budget did not have this either. We'd like to get back to this later, and we'd like to have dialogue with the Finnmark race if they can find a solution in the instrument, but I think it's up to the instrument to evaluate this project against other projects. I therefore agree with the majority of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, who have decided that the proposal should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e636	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e641	As many of the contributions have been made, including those of the Council of State, the Finnmark cycle is a fantastic event that both employs people and contributes to the development of nutrition and tourism in a relatively poor part of Norway. State councils have made it their nobility to talk about active industrial policy versus passive industrial policy. In the view of the Governments, are there active or passive industrial policy parties operating here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e646	I notice that the representative Bjørnstad refers to Finnmark as an economically poor part of Norway. That Finnmark is a nutrient-poor part of Norway, according to the Progress Party, is a claim I take a great distance from. I've spent a lot of time in Finnmark in the last few weeks, and what I've experienced is a forward-looking business, founders and established companies that want something, that burns for something, and that want to take Norway through the green shift, but now have great challenges, among other things. related to the sanctions against Russia. That is why the government prepares a package of loans, grants and guarantees of 1 billion. kr in order to secure the workplaces in Finnmark. This case is not about whether we are in favour of or against the Finnmark race – we are all – the question is about the Finnmark race, which has a great ambition for economic development, first should try the ordinary instrument. That's at least what we think they should do. We're going to help put them in touch, and then we'll see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e653	If you are to quote representatives in Stortinget, you should include the entire quote. What I said was that it was relatively nutrient-poor in Finnmark, and compared to the other regions in Norway, it is. It may well distance the council from it, but it's a fact. But it's used as a reason here not to make a difference, and that processes in the instrument have to go their way. Then there's reason to wonder why, for example. Arctic Race of Norway, as an important project for Nordland and Troms, receives direct support of 15 million. kr over the State budget. Are projects in Nordland and Troms more important to the government than projects in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e660	I think we should look together at how, through the state's funds, we contribute to promoting nutrition, promoting culture and promoting tourism, and that that is the sum of the contributions that count. I was asked about active industrial policy, and when we fell we started a sharp turn of our tool and this year we can mobilise 3 billion. This is also the means by which Finnmark will be able to participate. There may be different reasons why different projects are supported by different actions. I still want to distance myself from the claim that Finnmark is poor in nutrition. That's not how we contribute to mobilising creativity in a part of the country that wants more activity. I'd like to help talk Finnmark up. I've been there, I've seen the amazing possibilities that are there, not least the possibilities that the Finnmark race represents, and I'm sure our tool also means.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e667	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e674	I've been there arranging the Finnmark race for ten years. It was in the infancy of the Finnmark race. The Finnmark race is unique in Norway and Europe, both event-oriented and not least because the Finnmark race is held in Finnmark, the gateway to the Arctic and Putin world. Therefore, the Finnmark race cannot compete under the same conditions as other events in Norway, as encouraged by the suspension. From the host municipality of the Finnmark Race, Alta in West Finland, along the footrace of the Kirkenes in South Varanger Municipality, a unique event has developed over 40 years to create cooperation, learning and safe nutrition development for different actors. The Finnish race contributes to job creation, local involvement, pride and increased demand for local goods and services. The Finnish race contributes to increasing local competence, and the race also attracts people from abroad to Finnmark, to North Norway and to Norway and creates housing for more than those who actively drive dogs. But it's a serious rug that we have to look at. This came out well in Prime Minister Støre's speech at the University of Tromsø in February. Larges refer to the strong decline in Finnmark population, which creates challenges not only for Finnmark but also for Norway. Among other things, Störe said: that we cannot have an empty space on the border of Russia and the Arctic. Thus, the Finnmark race is organised in a state that, for security reasons, should have more people living there, for the benefit of the whole of Norway. Today, the size can strengthen the positive elements of Finnmark that create housing and activity, not least for young people who find a future industry in dog driving, and the potential of the Finnmark race, where the organiser has a purpose to develop one of the most important events in North Norway and to create pride, housing and increased interest in the region as a travel destination and place of establishment. Activity, presence and knowledge are the building blocks in Finnmark, North Norway and Norway. When today's head of government says that we cannot have an empty space on the border of Russia and the Arctic, I will challenge the Storting and the government to actively share that concern. This can be done by granting $5 million. SEK to Finnmark to do the job of promoting Finnmark nationally and internationally in a positive way. Patient focus will support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 2 we will support subsidiary, with the hope that proposal No. 2 gets a majority, because it's promoted by SV, which gives the government a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e701	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each political group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 7 lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e708	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation on an important matter. The representative proposal to strengthen food security in Norway through increased food grain production as a result of the war in Ukraine focuses on a problem issue and a concern that an overall increase is behind. Ukraine and Russia account for a very large proportion of world food exports and are also an important exporter of feed raw materials and other inputs to world food production. With this as a background, the proposal for a representative contains two concrete proposals. The government is asking for rapid implementation of exceptional measures to stimulate increased cereal production in Norway, including increases in cereal prices to farmers and compensation for increased fertiliser and energy prices. The size asks the government to assess a risk-relief scheme so that farmers sow food grain and obtain production finances even if the crops do not become of food quality. An otherwise overall committee distinguished the layers of these two proposals, but an overall committee sees the importance of ensuring food for its own population through the sound and sustainable use of resources in Norway. It also underlines the importance of ensuring that cereals are produced as far as possible on the areas suitable for this purpose, while roughage-based livestock production is mainly located in areas with pastures and pastures. This channelling policy is essential to ensure the highest possible overall Norwegian food production and thus also the highest possible degree of self-sufficiency. The Committee considers it essential with a stronger focus on food safety and preparedness. The government has clearly communicated that the offer in the year’s agricultural settlement will include an increase in the target price for cereals and increased subsidies for the production of cereals, which compensate for the additional growth in fertiliser prices and contribute to increased profitability. The Council of State points to the agricultural negotiations as the right venue for this. Tomorrow the agricultural organisations will present the agricultural requirements for the agricultural settlement of the year. Here, a significant element will be the compensation for the huge increase in the cost of agricultural inputs since the additional negotiations in the autumn. With regard to the proposal for a risk-relief scheme, the majority considers such a scheme to be inappropriate and may, in some areas, be counterproductive. The abovementioned assessments help to form the basis for the majority’s vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e734	The situation of Norwegian agriculture is serious and the situation of Norwegian food security is vulnerable. The war in Ukraine shows it with all manner of clarity. I think it is good that the Progress Party now throws itself on the train to improve the situation for both Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food security, in the form of a quick representative proposal. But politics is not measured by the output of the opposition, policies are measured by results in the position. For the past eight years, the Progress Party has steered Norwegian agricultural policy – yes, proposer Listhaug has even been Minister of Agriculture – and the results have been alarmingly weak in agricultural policy. While the Right Party and the Advance Party spent tens of billions on tax cuts for the richest country, they wouldn't use a single penny to secure Norway's population's supply of grain in times of crisis. When the right-wing government last year, about this time, made an offer of $954 million. kr in the agricultural settlement, the response of the Agricultural Policy Spokesman of the Advance Party, Sivert Bjørnstad, to NTB was as follows: ‘After several years of good income development in agriculture, we believe it is now the turn of others.’ The results after eight years of the Right and Advance Party are alarmingly weak in agricultural policy. It's probably the weakest government we've ever had since World War II, just on agriculture. But now it is the Workers' Party and the Centre's turn to deliver results for Norwegian agriculture, and results are to be delivered. I'm glad that the Progress Party is making a change in policy, and I look forward to discussing how together we can strengthen the agricultural union and the self-sufficiency of our nation in the time to come. But the credibility of the Progress Party depends on the fact that the party is actually willing to make a real political change in its course, and not least on recognising that the agricultural policy of the Progress Party has until now been misplaced – and not least too low in budgets. I would like to call on the Progress Party to take the floor here today, in this Chamber, in this debate and to express a genuine regret both to the Norwegian farmer and to the people of Norway. Then we can put the last eight years behind us and work together to improve the conditions of agriculture. I really hope that the Advance Party will show such generosity to the Norwegian farmer and to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e748	I note that the Labour Party leader uses his entire post to talk down an opposition party, and I must honestly admit that it was a bit strange. The party of progress here promises an important and topical matter. It is essential that Norway can provide enough food for the Norwegian population in a period of crisis, and the Right – as opposed to the Workers' Party – clearly shares the impatience of the proposers for action and commends them for having lifted them. We live in a turbulent time, we've gone from one crisis to another. Not until the pandemic was over, Russia invaded Ukraine, and the consequences of these crises – both of them – are that food prices are crawling upwards, and the discussions about self-sufficiency and food involve more. That's understandable. At the same time, we should remember one thing: we're safe in Norway, we're lucky in Norway, we have enough food, and we're well equipped to handle what's happening now in the world. Nevertheless, we must take seriously the fact that there is a full stop in cereal exports from Russia and Ukraine, and it puts global food production under pressure. This is also likely to lead to increased cereal prices. It comes at the top of the increased costs of agricultural inputs. Norway should be prepared to deal with this, and it is important that this situation is particularly part of Norway’s work on preparedness in general. Although this situation is now acute, it is as much about being prepared for future situations that put Norwegian food production under pressure. The previous speaker also had a couple – three mistakes in his post. Among other things, the Solberg government had as its main priority the strengthening of the grain economy in the last agricultural business – I record that the Workers' Party has not got along. It was done by strengthening, among other things. the system for the stockpiling of cereal seed material and by giving priority to aid for small, local drying and storage facilities for cereals on farm. I am very happy – as opposed to the previous speaker – that the Big Government has actually followed up this line, and that the Central Party has also turned the case around, so there is a broad political consensus on this strategy. It is also important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth and remember what the different concepts include when we talk about self-sufficiency etc. We need to remember that Norway's overall coverage is almost 90 pst. We are self-sufficient in a number of products, and it provides a very good basis for having enough food in a crisis period. At a time when nationalism and egoism seem to link more closely, it is important for us in the Right to be clear that international cooperation and trade are crucial for Norway – not only in a time of crisis but also elsewhere. That is why we need to look beyond our own borders in terms of food security and security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e765	The papers are full of stories about farmers who are struggling. The reason for this is, among other things: high prices of fuel and energy, and the prices of fertilisers that have shot at the weather. In one case in the class struggle on Saturday, it was found that fertilisers that cost 300000 kroner last year cost almost 1 million kroner. kr in year. Yesterday the nation reported that grain farmers in particular have a decline in income this year. This year we have a special need to ensure grain production in Norway. Ukraine is one of the world’s largest exporters of cereals together with Russia. These two countries accounted for 25 p.m. of all world wheat exports in 2020. In addition, Russia is a major exporter of raw materials for fertilisers. Even though the war is a bit off geographically, we can quickly know the consequences of our own wallet and see them on our own kitchen table. The amount of cereal production that can be maintained in Ukraine this year is very uncertain. Norway is a poorly suited country for large-scale grain production. Climate, weather and soil are involved in driving up production costs. This year, exceptional high energy and fertiliser prices make profitability even lower than normal. Normally, in those years, we will buy more grain on the world market, but this year, grain production is expected to be scarce. Therefore, we should take an additional step to bring up cereal production here at home this year for emergency reasons, and it is urgent. It is now – right now – farmers are planning what they are looking for and growing, but the Minister of Agriculture will wait until the agricultural settlement to ensure profitability in the production of wheat and fodder grain. The agricultural settlement is generally adopted as known in the first half of June, i.e. in a month and a half. It is difficult to understand the passive position that the Central Party has taken on the farmers. On Saturday, the class struggle had an article where over 40 cattle farmers would slaughter all the animals. One of the farmers says it like this: ‘There was a drought in 2018. Then it was Frp who put in government, but there came a drying pack. And he came fast. It's okay to be a Sp member now." At the same time, I think it is strange that the Workers' Party is talking about yesterday's agricultural policy instead of being a little bit more concerned with helping the farmers in what is the problem today. I address the proposals of the Progress Party, together with other parties in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e783	The representative of Terje Hansen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e788	There are dramatic times for agriculture, both nationally and internationally — and these things are also closely linked. International food prices have not been higher in decades, and as a result, we are now entering a growing season and a summer in which production in very many countries is going to collapse. These are the inputs we're talking about here, which is the first problem, and it's propagating even higher food prices. One will be troubled to a very different extent than we have witnessed in a long, long time. In the middle of this is Norwegian agriculture. Agriculture in Norway has a large proportion of its incomes associated with the agricultural agreement. The technical agricultural agreement specifies the price of fertilisers expected, the input factors for petrol, etc. – things that are entirely decisive if one is to keep up and operate the production of agricultural products. When those prices go into the weather, it's clear that we have problems. We now have a case where many farmers pay roughly for the production they produce for the community. Many have also warned that they cannot continue; someone has already said that they will slaughter their cattle or withdraw from the business. In many countries, they say that the largest activity is the taxation of agricultural property, to see what values you have, and how it is possible to get out. This stands in stark contrast to what is the overarching goal of the new plurality in Norwegian policy, and it is that one should not continue to build up agriculture. There shall be no fewer farmers, no more land shall leave operation. That development shall be reversed. There's going to be an increase in production based on Norwegian land resources, we're going to take back land that's gone out of use, and there's going to be more farmers. That's what's going on in the agricultural negotiations. But what we're doing now, before the agricultural negotiations, before the first payments are linked to the declaration, is dramatic in itself. It was also a bit of a backstop because, in connection with the power package for agriculture, SV made suggestions that we also had an impact on, that the Stortinget asked the government to follow the development, and if it would come to critical conditions where farmers were about to cut down or reduce production, then we decided that they would come back with measures. That is why I encourage the Storting to ask for a statement, so that the Storting can see what is the actual situation, and that one can come back with suggestions about it. With that, I will address the proposal SV is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e801	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e806	We in Red agree with the proposers that it is very important for Norwegian self-sufficiency to increase food grain production in Norway. We record that the government believes they have given signals that there will be arrangements for food grain, but at the same time we know that there has been uncertainty among farmers as to whether it will be profitable to grow food grain this spring. Farmers cannot go down to the bank with a statement about the Minister of Agriculture of the Nations. They must have clear decisions. A decision on a risk-relief scheme or a price guarantee for farmers growing cereal would guarantee profitability and may be decisive for whether farmers choose to grow cereal this spring. The production and storage of food grain are essential for our food security. We are very pleased that it may seem to have become a broad consensus on Stortinget that we should rebuild the storage capacity, and that the government has started work on how storage facilities for food grain can look like. At the same time, facilities that have previously been used for cereal storage are at risk of being built down and sold as apartments. In Stavanger, the joint bid will sell the port silo – Norway’s largest cereal storage facility – to build apartments. We in Red believe it would be irresponsible to build apartments in the few storage facilities we have left, until we have received adequate replacements on the table. We are therefore promoting a loose proposal today asking the government to come up with measures to ensure that we do not reduce the storage capacity and the food grain storage infrastructure until we have adequate substitutes, and we invite all parties to support this proposal. Red believes the best preparedness Norway can have is a living agriculture based on Norwegian resource base. We are now in a situation where farmers all over the country report animals for slaughter and really consider shutting down operations – in the midst of a global commodity crisis. There are mainly two reasons for this: the extreme increase in fertiliser, fuel and electricity prices and the large income gap between farmers and other workers. During the spring, government parties have opposed several initiatives to put in place compensation schemes that could have helped the farmers meet at the high price and referred to the agricultural negotiations. We in Red expect the government in this agricultural settlement to take responsibility for the Norwegian farmer and Norwegian food production and to put the money that is needed on the table to ensure a new donation in Norwegian agriculture. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e823	The representative Hege Bae Nyholt has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e829	Agriculture is in a critical time. I think everyone present in this room is aware of that, and we are getting a new knowledge of the dramatic situation of agriculture almost weekly. Much has also happened since this proposal for a representative was tabled a few months ago. We see galloping prices of raw materials, and we see the contours of a global food crisis. Last week we also received a new OECD report on Norwegian climate policy, which was clear that we can no longer separate agricultural policy and climate policy in Norway – we are forced to see this in a stronger context. And tomorrow, agriculture will be demanding agricultural negotiations on the basis of new knowledge on income trends in agriculture. All of this means that agricultural policy will become one of Norway's heaviest and most important political issues in the years to come, and one that concerns all parties. I record that the Workers' Party is provoked by other parties' views on agricultural policy. I don't think I'm going to comment on anything else – I'm old enough to think about how agriculture felt when the Labour Party sat with the Minister of Agriculture throughout the 1990s, and I don't think anyone will want to go back to that time anyway. But anyway, food preparedness is important. We are forced to increase Norwegian food production, especially cereal and green production, and we need to take a comprehensive political action to provide Norwegian farmers with the necessary security before the growing season of the year – not least to ensure that more cereals are sown in Norway. That is what this proposal from the Progress Party is about, and that is what the proposals for voting here today are about, where the Left is involved in minority proposals, from the Progress Party, the Left and the Environment Party of Dei Green, and from SV, Red, Left and the Environment Party of Dei Green. It's all about us from Stortinget's side that we should also now be with and give Norwegian farmers the necessary security for the future in a critical time. I find it strange that the government – often in fact later – does not accept the stretched hands that come out of this Chamber from many parties to join, to give Norwegian farmers future threats and economic security. When it comes to defence policy, the government invites the Stortinget to a broad settlement. When it comes to agricultural policy, which is also particularly important for national preparedness, the government and the government party say: No, this is what we are going to do ourselves. I find that, I record it – I don't think it's wise in the long run. But from the Left and many other parties in this room's side, the prayer is ready: we want to join in and give Norwegian farmers and Norwegian agriculture a future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e842	When the world’s largest wheat exporter attacks the world’s sixth largest, it has dramatic consequences for the world’s food supply. According to the FAO, the Ukraine War can push food prices at 22 p.m. up only this year. This could lead to at least 13 million people going into malnutrition, as well as those who are already there. Behind this is climate change, which will lead to a reduction in food production. For this reason, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has strongly encouraged, in its last interim report, that all countries produce the best possible food for themselves. Of course, this call applies not least to Norway, with its low level of self-sufficiency. This is precisely when it is more demanding than ever to bring up production because fertiliser prices, fuel prices and electricity prices undermine the agricultural economy. It gives the Stortinget and the government an extra responsibility to secure the farmers' financial basis now. That is why, for once, I would like to thank the Progress Party for important proposals. We support the proposals, and we hope that the Progress Party will support the MDG's proposal to take care of the food soil, which will be discussed a little later. There is no food from soil under concrete. Norway needs more food production, not less. That's why we need more farmers, not fewer. The farmers must then feel safe that they do not lose money to produce food. The income gap between Norwegian farmers and other professional groups must be narrowed, and I notice that the majority in the committee say they agree with that. It's also going to make the farmers notice in front of the farm. The budget heading for agriculture estimates that the income loss of farmers this year can be NOK 40 000, and that is not possible when the economy is already in recession. This year's agricultural settlement is therefore, as many have pointed out, the most important thing in decades, because now it is said to prevent Norwegian farmers from operating at a time when we need more of them than ever. The time for farmers to live in total uncertainty about the basic economy in the industry must be left with this agricultural settlement. The majority voting on the proposals that we are now debating places an even greater responsibility on the government to keep its promises in the agricultural settlement that comes. We have all heard how spectacularly much better agricultural policy will be, now that the Workers' Party and the Centre are in government. This has been heard by many. In a day's time, the agricultural organisations will present their demands. Then there can only be one response from the government: these requirements have to be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e853	It is a serious matter that forms the backbone of today's debate on Norwegian food production, just before this year's agricultural negotiations. The war in Ukraine strikes many, and it hits in many ways. There were high food prices internationally before the war, and food prices on the world market have now reached historically high levels. Many also indicate that they will remain at a high level for some time to come. High food prices hit mainly people in low purchasing countries and heavily dependent on imported basic products. There is great concern about the humanitarian consequences of this. It is therefore important, not just for Norway, that we produce as much of the food that people demand, here to land and not least on Norwegian resources. I note that the importance of strong Norwegian agriculture now seems to have been perceived by far more than before, including those who have previously stated objectives of weakening important elements of Norwegian agricultural policy and thus Norwegian food production. A profitable Norwegian agriculture is a foundation for national food preparedness. Food production cannot be switched on or on when the need arises abruptly. It requires profitability in the industry. It requires predictability in the industry over time, which will take care of the production base. The seriousness lies heavily above Norwegian agriculture now. The figures from the Budgetary Department confirm this. In these days grain farmers run out of spring. They invest labour inputs and costly inputs for optimal results for the autumn. With sky-high fertiliser costs, many were unsure whether it would be profitable to sow and fertilize food grain this year. It was therefore very important to be clear, before spring and before this year's agricultural negotiations, that the profitability of cereal production will be ensured. The government has therefore clearly communicated that the offer in the year’s agricultural settlement will include an increase in the target price for cereals and an increase in the subsidy for the production of cereals, which compensates for the additional costs incurred. I have been clear that there will be payments in 2022, even if we negotiate for 2023. I also use this when we now go into the agricultural negotiations. Tomorrow, Norway’s Bondelag and Norwegian Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams will present their demands in front of this year’s agricultural negotiations. The state’s offer is presented in one week. There is no doubt that this is going to be an important settlement for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e864	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e869	Persistent increases in cereal prices are a much larger problem for poor countries, which are dependent on imports of cereals and which do not have the economy for drastic price increases over time — as opposed to what might be said that Norway has. Today, about 1.4 times more food is produced in the world than we need, but we can't redistribute the food. For example, if we in Norway hamster cereals, it can. contribute to international price growth. How will the government balance the Norwegian food production with needs in countries that lack both cash and grain?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e876	As I have been clear many times before, for Norway, we will first and foremost experience increased costs, i.e. increased prices. Internationally, the situation is worse, because very many countries are dependent on production in Ukraine and Russia. With that element, it is important that we now contribute to more production in Norway, in Norwegian resources. That is why we sent the signal that we now want to increase the target price. An increase in grants has also been distributed and adopted by the government and will form the basis for what is offered by the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e881	When Stortinget dealt with the power package for exceptional power support for agriculture earlier in the year, the government party, SV and some others later said that we should ask the government to follow closely the developments we saw then, with additional prices and what effect it had on the farmers. There was also a clear expectation that if the situation got worse, the government would take action that could remedy the situation right now, at the start of the growing season. It could be critical. The government has seen no reason to take action in that situation. This is a bit of the background that we in SV have asked the Council of State to take the initiative to clarify the situation. In this way, Stortinget can get facts on the table and decide what the situation is. The national assembly must have that information. Why have the Councils not been willing to meet that desire?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e888	Governments are happy to explain the situation. I also believe that the matter is important. We are now going into what is going to be important negotiations – there is no doubt about it. I and the government have been following developments carefully since we took over the government premises. I have also had regular meetings with industry, industry and a number of actors to keep up-to-date on the current situation in Norwegian agriculture, but not least internationally. We've also delivered 754 million. kr in the context of the additional negotiations, which were important in the autumn. We have delivered a power pack that includes the greenhouse industry. These were important measures. We have also made a decision in the government to increase the target price and grant for cereals, so that you could communicate it out before the spring of the year, which is now in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e893	I would like to thank the Council of State for wanting to take the initiative – if it is as I understand it, the Council of State may be able to correct the impression if I have understood it wrong. This is completely fundamental. On Stortinget we try to form an overview as best we can. We are in contact with Nortura, we are in contact with the Joint Purchase, we are in contact with different types of actors and of course with trade unions. But forming the big, holistic image is hard for small party groups. That's exactly what we wanted the government to do for Stortinget – identify what the situation is, where it's critical, what's going on. That's the background for me to take the initiative, so the Storting can get all the facts on the table. What's the situation? It's fundamental that Stortinget gets that information early and not too late. Is there anything the government can say about when the distribution can come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e902	It must be checked by the Council of State, but I can say that the Council of State has no objection to doing so. The budget item came with its numerical basis just before Easter, but it is also important to say that there is a very uncertain basis, because the situation is changing almost from week to week, especially for key cost factors. Here the situation will change all the time, and that is exactly what will make the negotiations of the year difficult. Not least the numerical basis here, which we have to deal with, and which is the starting point for the negotiations, means that we have to constantly evaluate the situation from month to month and week to week, because the situation is changing all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e909	That perspective is being supported. It's very difficult to take a still image, because this changes quickly in a few days. What has also been a strength in agriculture has been that a few inputs from cooperatives can provide guarantees, for example. can get manure on chalk. Now I hear more and more people have lost their chances of doing that. This is of course the case with fuel – which is not driven by cooperatives, at least not yet – which also makes it difficult. Have any assessments been made at any level in the Department and by the Council of State to provide additional guarantees in the form of further promises, such as full compensation, or guarantees relating to the purchase of key inputs to meet the spring months?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e919	Now I'm going to be very careful to go in and shoot what's going to happen in the agricultural negotiations in just a few days. What I have said, and what I believe is an important message, is that although we negotiate for 2023, I am prepared to compensate for the additional costs that have been incurred already in the current year. It's an important signal, and it's also important to discuss with the trade unions how we can get the arrangements fair. These are completely new things we're doing; we've never done this before. Getting fair arrangements that make those who need it the most, and not least those who need the most, even where you are in the country, is the important job that needs to be done. But that I am prepared to compensate for expenses and payments already in 2022 is an important signal and an important message.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e926	I only have one last question related to that. In the context of the power package, we were certain that we would ensure a payment during the year, which will be important. But for some it is so critical that even getting a payout in November/December can be challenging. There I am back to the second part of the question I asked: has there been discussion in the department of various types of guarantees, guarantees, which means that farmers can actually acquire the necessary input factors?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e931	Once again, it is important for me to point out that we are following the situation closely. Of course, I consider different solutions and turn each stone that can now be turned over to cover the increased costs that have been incurred, and not least to start sealing the income gap. There are so many elements that are important now over the course of the year's agricultural negotiations. In addition to having an additional dimension with a cost-sunami that celebrates Norwegian agriculture and, unfortunately, has had enormous consequences, we have a bit of a lag behind resuming the densification of the income gap, which is the legacy of the previous government. It's clear that this is going to be a demanding job, but I'm taking this job very seriously and I'm now working towards the negotiations to turn every stone that can be turned around to change the development that has been in Norwegian agriculture, and not least contribute to an economic security to produce the food you and I eat every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e938	As the Prime Minister said at the beginning of the day in the Great Britain today in Ukraine-formation say, we are in a time of demand. Everything is related to everything; we have crises in many areas globally that we need to resolve: energy crisis, climate crisis, defence policy, preparedness policy – all this is closely linked than ever before, and must be resolved. In the last week, a new OECD report on Norwegian climate policy pointed out that Norwegian agricultural policy has to be more closely linked to Norwegian climate policy and does not do it well today. I don't even think the OECD has come to realize that in practice one of the two trade unions has already broken the voluntary climate agreement that the state and agriculture concluded a few years ago. But what the OECD is at least very clear is that we need to turn agricultural support systems on to make agriculture more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly, while at the same time facilitating agricultural production throughout the country. Will the Council of State take the climate perspective of the negotiations that will take place now in ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e945	I think we should brag a little of Norwegian agriculture, because it is actually the only industry that has a binding climate agreement with the state, and agriculture has done a lot by itself. There is no doubt that agriculture has lacked the means to make that change, and that was the representative's party that put it in government. We have now given signals and budget funds to Bionova, which is going to be an important element in that job. The climate agreement with agriculture is also an important part of the negotiations, which, of course, I cannot comment on at the moment. But it will be part of the negotiations we are about to conduct with Norwegian agriculture – and hopefully a good agreement will be reached in the middle of May.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e950	I agree with the Council of State that there was an incredibly important work being done between the country and the agricultural organisations in concluding a voluntary environmental agreement a few years ago. The challenge there is that we now see that one of the two organisations is not really in agreement with the agreement that was concluded, and now it is clear that they do not support the content of that agreement, while the climate and the seriousness of climate change are increasing. It's a situation that at least bothers me and the Left. One of the grips that the OECD then talked about is that we are forced to turn aid schemes away from the most intensive production and from more to appreciate and pay for the use of land, hold land in claim and have a varied production that is not necessarily high-intensity and dependent on external raw materials throughout the country. Is there a device the Council of State agrees with: that we can now begin to facilitate a more productive agriculture, while increasing the investment in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e957	It's like the representative started with, that often everything goes hand in hand with everything. At the same time, I also think it is very important now, at least for the government, that we cannot accept measures that reduce food production. There is not necessarily any contradiction to important climate action to be done, but it is important for me to say that it is part of the negotiations we are now going to do with the trade unions: the peasants' team and the farmers' and small farmers' team. The organisations will make their demands tomorrow, and then we will see what the negotiations will end with. But it's now too early for me to pre-shoot the outcome of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e962	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e967	We're in an extraordinary situation. There's a troubled world around us, and we know that farming becomes especially important this year. We've recently become very good at turning around quickly and providing good solutions in difficult situations, and the expectations for agricultural settlement are high. The farmer experiences increased electricity prices, fertiliser prices and diesel prices. Some of these have been compensated by increased production additions, but the correct address of the major measures is actually agriculturally settled. We have to be careful so that we do not erode the important institute of agriculture. The trade unions and the state sit around the table on equal terms and find good solutions for agriculture. It may, of course, be tempting to intervene with outside measures. I do not think that is a very good idea, but we in the Right support the intention of today's proposal by the Progress Party. Food security has a high priority for the Right, and we want to produce as much as possible of the food that people need, that based on what we do to weather conditions and other natural opportunities, we have to produce it ourselves. The most important thing we do for food safety is to ensure increasing continuous food production. We must also believe, as the representative of Lene Westgaard-Halle put it, that we have a high level of food coverage in Norway. There is very little talk of coverage in the debate on food security. We talk more about the degree of self-sufficiency, but the coverage is important to note, because it says something about the total production of food in Norway, and it is – as Westgaard-Halle was in it – over 90 p.m. in Norway, when we calculate the fish. Fish are an important part of the overall preparedness in Norway. Should that really pinch, we have it, and it's central to people knowing, so they're sure that we actually have more legs to stand on. That being said, it is important that we produce even more of the agricultural products that our inhabitants need. Now we are looking forward to the parties to the agricultural settlement sitting around the table. These people are tightest in agriculture, and they know the details, which are important in finding the best solutions for increased production and good food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e980	Let me first thank the proposers for raising a very topical topic for debate. It is an overall committee that sees the importance of securing food for its own people through the proper and sustainable use of our resources. We have also gathered on the importance that cereals should be produced to the greatest extent possible on the most suitable areas for it, while roughage-based livestock production is located in those parts of the country where grass and grazing land have its advantage. In the light of a worldview that has changed dramatically only in the last year, society has had to prepare for very demanding times. Therefore, food safety and preparedness have been updated in addition to the degree of self-sufficiency. The long-term policy of the Centre Party has been clear and clear. It also shows a number of proposals promoted by the party in earlier periods. Then it is important for me to stress that the very best preparedness we have is a living agriculture based on Norwegian resources throughout the country. It's and has always been the Center Party's mantra. A key prerequisite for food safety and preparedness is to ensure the profitability and predictability of the industry over time. Then it's interesting to read in the settings that the members from the Right and the Left, among others. The main priority was to strengthen the grain economy in the last agricultural negotiations under the Solberg Government. I remember that there have been several years since there was agreement in the negotiations. Well, the exit of the Solberg government was running from the extraordinary costs that the industry clearly addressed last year. The new government and the new Minister of Agriculture and Food brought the parties together as soon as she took over, and the demand from the industry to be compensated for increased costs, including: Fertilisers were met by 754 million. kr, an additional investment package for small and medium-sized applications of 200 million. kr and a power support package – as mentioned. Today’s government takes responsibility for the situation in the industry. A historical high figure has been provided during the period between the main negotiations in the agricultural holding. The ambitions of the government platform on behalf of agriculture remain firm, but it is not to be concealed that it becomes very demanding. Increased income to the farmer is a means in addition to a measure. Increased incomes are a means of ensuring safe and safe food production throughout the country. It is a new direction of agricultural policy with a Central Party-Work Party-based government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e999	The food safety of Norway for agricultural food is the worst in Europe. Agricultural food produced on Norwegian agricultural areas corresponds to 40 pst. of the energy calories we ate in 2020. In addition, there are 1,7 pst fish. – it has to be right-wing – of the energy calories in 2020. That's the facts – to the representative Gimse. Right is talking about a coverage of 90 pst. including fish. The central party's question is, why on earth did one then rationalize grain, meat and milk during the last two world wars when one had enough fish? It's not on your fingertips. The agricultural area is reduced from 2.3 decare per capita in 1999 to 1.8 decare per capita in 2021. It's critical. The representative Westgaard-Halle says Norway is well rusted. The truth is that Norway has never been rustier than today. The representative Westgaard-Halle says that the right has strengthened the grain economy. The reference use from the budget item of 513 Decare Grains has a remuneration for labour and equity of minus 32 300 SEK per year, while the Right has done the trick of obtaining appropriations from the State budget for the same use of NOK 690 538 per year. That's what they call facts. Increased maritime supply means increased plant production. The Right Party and the Advance Party disagree. Increased plant production only brings increased profitability, and in the short term we need to increase yields. The most common cereals fertiliser today costs NOK 11.50/kilo – up from NOK 3.80/kilo as an average in 2021. According to Yara, prices from 2021 can be increased by 4 times. The current wheat price is approximately SEK 3.65 per kilo. Cereal prices must be at least SEK 1.50 per kilo in order to be profitable in the production of cereals for food. But the largest area in Norway is grass, and if we don't do it so that the increased cereal prices directly turn into increased feed prices, it won't pay to grow grass in North Norway. I would like to encourage the Council of State to implement a distribution of money so that the grazing puss in Målselv will end, that the grazing puss is replaced by the punching machine. But then it must pay to grow grass in Gålselv, in Balsfjord, in Lavangen and in Salangen. That's the big challenge. We're facing a massive turnaround. Growing grass and cereals in Norway must be worthwhile — and the prices of the products must rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1013	The consideration of this proposal for a representative shows that large parts of the agricultural industry are in an extremely difficult period, taking into account the current situation in Europe. Again, food security and the nation’s ability to feed its own population are at the forefront of crisis situations. In the current situation, I am very pleased that in Sandra Borch we have a Minister of Agriculture and Food who takes these challenges very seriously, and which is entirely ‘primarily in the chain’ in addressing the challenges. The centre party industry has made considerable efforts to travel around and visit the industry and related industries. We are left with clear and coordinated feedback from all over the country. We feel that we have formed a real picture of the situation. There is a challenging situation, and many users are in a very, very difficult economic situation. The centre party has given clear signals that the right arena for compensating for the huge cost growth is through the ordinary agricultural negotiations of the year. It is important that the part of the negotiations relating to cost compensation be paid in the current year and as quickly as possible. In this context, it is very good that the agricultural settlement starts tomorrow, with the presentation of the agricultural requirements. We have the best food preparations, as several representatives have mentioned, through ongoing national food production. That is why we believe it is good for agriculture and the Norwegian consumer that we now have a government consisting of parties that have prioritised food preparation and the income of agriculture over time. The Government aims to close the revenue gap over a 4-year period and to increase the self-sufficiency rate to a minimum of 50 pst, corrected for imported feed materials. This is an ambitious objective that requires priorities and efforts to achieve. We are totally dependent on agriculture throughout the country where grain is produced on the best grain soil, and where roughage-based productions take place where this is justified. In this context, the efficiency of agriculture will be an instrument for ensuring food preparedness through ongoing production. Of course, it is also a goal to secure the farmer's predictable frame and income in line with other groups. Agricultural negotiations are the right venue to compensate for cost growth, reverse development and ensure increased self-sufficiency and food security. In our view, the interests of consumers and agriculture are best served through the Institute of Agreements and substantive negotiations between the parties, not through representative proposals and individual decisions in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1030	It was the small visit of the representative Kjölmoen who made me take the floor. It was not really so small either, because all his articles were about the proposers and the party Progress Party. If you peel away the rhetoric, there wasn't much left in that post. It was almost like being back at the school debate. Now there's a certain age difference between me and Kjølmoen, so I never got to experience him alive in the school debate, but I can now imagine what it was like. It may be due to a certain shift in memory that he does not remember the agricultural situation in the last eight years, and the representative shall not be charged for it. He was not a representative then; he was busy in the county council in More and Romesdal, and then it is not necessarily so easy to follow up on the national debate. But so it was that less full-time use was done during the Solberg government than under the red-green government. The growth of agricultural production was significantly higher than that of the red-green government. It was redispatched over 30 pst. less agricultural land than under the red-green government, and the income growth per farmer was DKK 116 000 over the period, NOK 20 000 more than other groups in society. Ergo was gaping between the farmers and the other groups less during that period. However, like Kjölmoen and the Workers' Party, we have not promised to remove the income gap in four years. But that's what the Cool Mound and the government of today have done. However, they do not know how much it costs — somewhere between 13 and 20 billion. kr. Then one might say that the term ‘bonds’ has a new meaning, because now the representative Kjölmoen is out in the newspaper after the newspaper and is working with a clarification of expectations: now we have inflation, we have high interest rates. There is no way how much we have that makes the Workers' Party unable to deliver on its promise to remove the income gap in four years. The situation that looks more like the one we now have, but which was still much less serious, was the drought situation in 2018. Then the government delivered powerful measures already that summer. It stands in stark contrast to what today's government and what today's government parties are doing. They do nothing, but sit and wash their hands and wait and hope for better weather.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1043	Some have good days at work and others have worse days at work. The peasants are also one of them. The Labour Party’s representative may have had his worst day sending such a greeting to agriculture, which is in line with the challenges you are facing, by using a complete effort to break down a proposal that is about taking agriculture seriously. Exceptional situations require exceptional measures. It has been quite unisonably agreed on through the pandemic and also under other packages later, except in the situation we are facing with food production. It is said that it is not appropriate to take this as a representative proposal in Stortinget. Oh, no, no, no, no, One has to wait for the negotiations in the agricultural settlement, for the negotiations there. In my county, in my area, Vestfold, there are now most already finished sowing. That's the situation you're in. I come from old Re, in the new Tønsberg municipality, and there are quite large food producers that are even there. I got a message from there in March, where the Progress Party was thanked for our initiative. He was in a situation where for the first time he grew for fodder plants, usually a lot of wheat. I have talked to several, including food producers with cows, and Nortura can report that in the eastern part in particular it is record slaughtering. Rockens, who is the communication director there, doesn't say the number. For reasons of competition, he cannot say the number, but it is dramatic and will have major consequences several years in advance. Everyone who is involved in agriculture and cows knows that it takes three years to re-grow. When you stand here and say that it's special, and that you should apologize, I think maybe the Kühlmoen from the Workers' Party, first of all, should go and apologize from the pulpit. I don't think any of these food producers were very calmed down, but they're joining the line. It's a long, long series of statements from the Workers' Party in particular, but also from the Center Party, for that matter. We follow the situation closely. It doesn't help anything. Fuel prices: if we compare the diesel price last month and March last year, we know it's 51 pst. higher. The current drugs: some measures have been taken for the farmers, but not for everyone. You don't cover the packing rows of potatoes and vegetables, and they're the same ones that own them. Nor has anything been done about fertilisers. It doesn't help to say that we're going to compensate. It's already been sown in several places in the country, it's too late. But you can fix the damage by supporting the Progress Party in this now and saving several others further north of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1062	First, I would like to thank the proposers for taking the initiative for an important debate. Secondly, I would like to thank all those in the Chamber who have contributed good and nuanced contributions to the debate. It deserves both the case and the proposers, and then we all have slightly different approaches to the situation we are facing. Otherwise, I have to admit that I find it interesting to hear the representative Lundtigen speaking to his own government council on how to organise agricultural policy. Unfortunately, he also had a number of factual errors in his post, but we'll save it for a later debate. What is somewhat unclear after this debate is what the largest government party thinks about the matter we are discussing today. I have to admit that I noticed the same thing as Bjørnstad – I wrote a school debate in the corner of my sheet – and I have to admit that I think I had been better informed in an average school debate than I was by the inauguration of the Workers' Party's fractional leader. It says a little bit, all the time I was Right's lucky representative in Martin Schanche's first and last performance in a school debate. So, I hope, I have to admit, perhaps a little naive, at the longest, that the Workers' Party would take the word again and explain what they actually think about the matter. Therefore, with respect, I must almost ask the Workers' Party to participate in the same debate as the rest of us and come up and explain what the Workers' Party believes about food safety and cereal production. We all know what he means about the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1073	The representative of Westgaard-Halle and the representative of Bjørnstad are wondering how they have behaved in school debates in the past. To that it is to answer that the undersigned has not participated in school debates, he has had a life outside the policy and has worked in ordinary income-bearing work. It can be helpful to have an outside perspective in the hall here, too, maybe – what do I know? First of all, I want to give the opposition a little right. The undersigned was a little unprecise in the first post relating to the amount of money spent on emergency storage. The Right and Advance Party systematically voted down all proposals from the Workers' Party and the Centre for the construction of cereal storage, but it is true that there may have been 0.1 per million, which was set off by what was used to reduce the wealth tax for the richest country – a little for feed grain and a little to determine. I'm going to give it to the opposition right there. The Progress Party wonders why not the Workers' Party and the Center Party are more on the heel. Then I think it is important to say that the Workers' Party and the Centre have delivered 50 pst. more to agriculture between settlements than the previous government delivered in the previous settlement, so there was a settlement the Progress Party thought was more than good enough. So to the proposal that has been promoted here today. This deals with things that go directly into the negotiations, where we're going to get a play from the trade unions tomorrow. Any responsible politician will then understand that starting to signal on the pulpit here today how to put up with the proposals, will short-circuit that negotiator. Therefore, it is absolutely impossible for a responsible party to start signaling around it now, at least if you are a party engaged in protecting around the farmers' right to negotiate their own everyday lives. The working party and the undersigned believe that the questions here are important – yes. There's things that have to be looked at, but there's nothing we're going to sit on one side of the Storting and make decisions around now. This is something that the political system and the farmers together are going to figure out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1086	We who are witnesses to these verbal swords that stand between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, are somewhat in doubt about how we're going to handle it. Are we going to take the whip against the Progress Party, or are we going to pin them on it as a reorientation of agricultural policy? The revolt of peasants was one and only one with the policy of the previous government, and which put on speed a social development in which one should only become increasingly dependent on inputs from abroad; in that context, what came from abroad was good, one should only use the most productive land and build up the others. About 30 pst. of the earth in my home state, Troms, has gone out of operation under blue rule – 30 pst. That's the result, that's a fact. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has made a little more than 1 billion. kr i cut to the farmers. So in such a perspective, it is important to be clear that the Progress Party has been on another side of the agricultural policy, they have been opposed to the farmers, they want to spend the least money on the farmers and want to pursue a neoliberal policy in that field. The fact that they're making suggestions now is positive. They want in the situation we're in now, to spend more money on agriculture, because they see and recognize that here's a crisis that we have to get out of. It's basically positive. We in SV are very excited about whether this could mean that the Progress Party too can be willing to be some in the goal of closing the income gap between farmers and other groups in society. We think that's the natural next step, where we could get the width – from the right side to the left – of a party that actually wants to close the revenue gap from an awareness that in the time we live, where the earth gets pints out around the world, where the food prices in the world go into the roof, we have to take the earth back and into use again. One has to lift mountain farming, one has to lift coastal agriculture, one has to use the cadastral parcels we have around and make it profitable for farmers to run, not turn it into a debt trap, which many today are facing. In this context, I believe that there should be a very open question of whether or not there should be a whip or a pinch – perhaps a bit of both – to the Progress Party, and I would like to welcome good suggestions and point your finger at the fact that it will soon be an agricultural settlement, and it will soon be an alternative government budget. There we expect to see the results of the new orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1097	Let me comment on the posts of the representative Kjölmoen a little bit. I expect you to read the proposals before you go to the pulpit and debate them. When you haven't really read the content, I just want to remind you that the Ukraine war started on February 24, that was after talking about treatment and appropriations for agriculture and farmers in the past. I just want to remind the Labour Party that the proposal addresses the crisis you are facing. When two such big countries, food producers, are at war, and there is a marked decline in exports and production, the whole world community is facing a critical challenge, including here in Norway. When one manages to say that it will almost destroy the negotiating institute when making proposals, it is a little strange that my previous post is made. I said that during the whole pandemic and crises, this Storting has been able to turn around and come up with measures that you didn't think were possible, you hadn't even thought about before the pandemic. Then it's very strange to be taken to income to mean something completely different. We're dealing with a proposal that actually applies far more than just the Cooling Mould. This applies to all our citizens – providing food security. If you haven't got it with you: As I said, I have registered that the government is very good at saying that they follow the situation carefully, they give clear signals. Yeah, it doesn't help for those who haven't to eat, so it doesn't help for those who have supplied a cow, it doesn't help for record slaughter, it doesn't help for those who choose to give up, it doesn't help for those who choose to sell and leave the farm. That's the signal Stortinget sends today. You can wait for the negotiations, it won't be any easier for that reason. I therefore expect a little more respect, one should at least think that it was from the country's largest party, a government party like the Workers' Party, a little more decent debate and a little more respect for those who are struggling, those who are operating in agriculture and who no longer get to sleep at night. Last night I met someone with whom I had great sympathy. There are generally good, industrious farmers, at least in Westfold – and elsewhere around the country. I know that those who are following the debate here today are not very impressed, but it must be the Labour Party and the government's problem. I would also like to welcome you later and really hope that the government will follow up on what has been said – at least the Minister of Agriculture. I think it's a pity that we can't get together on extraordinary measures in an extraordinary situation – when there's a crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1110	I must first thank you for what has been a good debate. I am also pleased that all the parties have taken part in the debate. There is evidence that this is a serious situation. There is a serious problem over Norwegian agriculture now. The figures from the agricultural budget title have now been presented, with a significantly greater uncertainty than usual, but the figures show to a large extent the clarity that costs of increasing prices include, among others, the following: fertilisers, fuels and feed materials hit the industry very hard. It is natural that there are great expectations of agricultural settlements, whether from farmers, rapporteurs, elected peoples or ordinary people. They see Norwegian farmers doing an important job. They see that costs are growing, and that profitability over time has been very low. That there are great expectations for us, is quite natural. We have been offensive on behalf of agriculture, and we are still. It is important to remember that the government has done more between two agricultural settlements than any other government. We conducted the additional negotiations that the previous government was unable to land. We have introduced power support, increased the pot for investment aid and provided opportunities for increased egg and meat prices. In addition, the government and I have said that there will be extra payments for 2022. It's also far from what's normal. I have a lot of understanding that there are a lot of people who are impatient. At the same time, I don't think agriculture would have served to have a continuous debate on individual elements without seeing the totality. That is exactly why the negotiating institute and the negotiations we are about to enter into are so important. I want to remind you that it's only been five months since it put parties in the hall here and cut 1.3 billion. kr in the year's agricultural negotiations, in the amount of the year. I'm very happy that I don't run the Ministry of Agriculture on their budget. In conclusion, my ambition and that of the government is that through negotiations with the agricultural trade union, we will reach an agreement on the agricultural settlement that both addresses the very demanding situation of agriculture at present and shows a direction towards better income opportunities for the very important industry in the future. There is no doubt that this is needed after very many years of economic uncertainty for Norwegian agriculture and food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1125	The representative of Fylkesnes was unsure whether to swing the whip or hug all those who are now engaged in Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production. In these prime times, it's tempting to say that there doesn't have to be any contradiction between it, whip and love can hang in a bunch, but I think we're going to look at the big picture positively that there's now a wide and ever-growing commitment to Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production, which I also believe was the conclusion in the introduction to the representative of Fylkesnes. What I took the floor for was the representative Kjølmoen and the Labour Party, who, at least in his second attempt, made something that could approach some arguments for why the Labour Party is opposed to the proposals that are being voted on today. The arguments cannot be unanswered from the left side. First of all, the Labour Party is voting against these proposals because it's too late; we're too close in spring's agricultural policy. Well, then I would like to remind you that the Labour Party and the Center Party have had the opportunity to participate in the corresponding initiative in the past. There have been several occasions in this Chamber earlier this winter, as representatives from the Red Party and proposals in the Chamber from the Left, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party – all of which have been invited to participate and provide wider assurance that Norwegian farmers will have the economy to increase Norwegian grain production. Head has been here before, the Labour Party has voted against then, and then it doesn't seem like argument to come here today and say that now it's too late. The second argument is that the government has provided such an incredible amount of money to Norwegian agriculture between farming decisions. It's isolated right, but that part of the story one skips, is that it's primarily about three things: it's about a supplementary resolution that came about because of extra prices, which was fixed by a wide plurality in the Stortinget, where the former government parties, the Left, the Right and the Christian People's Party, have joined all the vows that are made, as far as I can remember, crowns for crowns. The next packages we're talking about are two rounds of exceptional power support packages. There was also a great deal of political support – I believe, as I think, it was the political support of all parties in this House that was in favour of it. So it's true that there's been a lot of extra funding to Norwegian agriculture between agricultural decisions, but it's been out of an extraordinary situation, and with a lot of support in this room. It's an important part of the picture that we need to bring with us today. I must therefore say that I am surprised that the government party does not accept the invitation that is here today, to join and give Norwegian farmers even more confidence and security for the important job they are going to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1136	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1152	Recently, it is a clear reminder that freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of information are crucial to well-functioning societies. These are democratic values that can easily be taken for granted in a country like Norway. The situation in Europe underpins the need to do the opposite. We must be a country of first importance. We, with our traditions, must have a goal of being a clear voice in order to protect and promote freedom of expression, including in international forums. So it can't be taken for granted. Our media are the prerequisite for just freedom of speech and democracy. The Koronapandemi and the war in Ukraine illustrate that the need for high-quality credible and independent editor-driven media is greater than ever. Russian media surveillance has blocked access to more media, and Putin's new media law can punish so-called false news, as the Russian authorities define it, with imprisonment for up to 15 years. Russia has long supported a disinformation and destabilisation campaign targeting Western countries, in particular countries with large Russian minorities. The media Russia Today and Sputnik have been controlled by the Russian authorities and have been central tools in this campaign. Russia Today and Sputnik have been used by the Putin regime to spread propaganda about the war in Ukraine, and the EU has decided in its sanctions package to block these media. We at home have decided not to censor Russia Today and Sputnik. The Constitutional Act § 100 sets very high standards for limiting freedom of expression, and it is difficult to see at present that these actors pose such a threat to fundamental social interests in Norway that they can defend exaggeration through general prohibition. I would like to repeat: media is a prerequisite for freedom of expression and for democracy. The government's aim is to ensure strong Norwegian media and to facilitate access for all communities to a good media offer. We need to ensure freedom of expression through the free media, and editors and journalists need special protection. While freedom of expression is strong in Norway, as reflected in the mandate of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, public space has been subject to fundamental changes since the first Commission report was presented in 1999. The current freedom of expression Commission delivers its NOU in August. With a new review of the position of freedom of expression in Norway, we will have a good starting point for further work in the field. The investigation is being handed over and debated on the opening day of Arendalsuka, that is, 15 August this year. Hopefully Arendalsuka and that it will be handed over there will be the beginning of a broad and inclusive public discussion of the Commission's assessments and proposals. Then the government will come back with concrete measures to strengthen freedom of expression after they have delivered their NOU, and we have assessed it. In about a month's time, I'm so lucky that I'm going to attend the World Expression Forum at Lillehammer. This is a new and enormously exciting initiative, which aims to strengthen freedom of expression globally by establishing a central meeting place for all those who want to work for freedom of expression. The World Expression Forum compares with the World Economic Forum, just that the theme is freedom of expression rather than economics. The starting point is Norwegian. It has support from both the book industry, the media and freedom of expression actors. The ambition is international, with shareholders and supporters from all over the world, and the programme for the very first conference is very impressive. I look forward with great anticipation to contributing to a discussion about what we politicians can do to strengthen the condition of freedom of expression – from the same scene as, among other things. The Peace Prize winners Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov. Norway continued to peak Reporters without Borders Press Freedom Index in 2021, for five consecutive years. It's a pleasure. However, it is not as difficult to maintain ideals and principles in a safe, egalitarian and well-functioning society without major conflicts — such as Norway. It is more difficult to hold on to ideals when challenged, for example. by actors and authorities using the media to manipulate the public. The press freedom index also shows us that we have a long way to go internationally. The freedom of expression Commission is now completing the examination of the social, technological, legal and economic framework for freedom of expression in today's society. The mandate covers many of the most topical but also the most difficult and acute issues and dilemmas of the time: hate, hot and bullying in social media, threats to journalists, politicians and social debaters, disinformation and propaganda, and harmful content and net crime. As this list shows, the freedom of expression debates tend to end up focusing on the negative aspects of freedom of expression, on freedom of expression as a problem. It may not be so strange, but there's a risk that we're missing out on something completely essential: what this freedom actually means. One can imagine that criticism of an ideology or political direction was banned because its supporters felt offended by it, that media did not dare to report from political demonstrations without state channels doing so first, or that they risked losing their jobs if they were criticized by those who run the country. In very many countries, people live with just this. I will quote the recent Secretary General of the Editorial Association, Arne Jensen. He has said: we must learn to cheer on freedom of speech! Dear Moses, freedom of speech is not a problem! It's a resource. It's a value. For our whole community. I agree with the heart. The government's aim is to ensure strong Norwegian media and to facilitate the provision of good media to all groups in society. In order to achieve this, the work on media pluralism is very central. The media surveillance documentes the development of the Norwegian media diversity through its media diversity accounts. The 2020 accounts show that Norway has a diversity of editor-driven journalistic media, both at national and local level. A wide range of actors and owners, both national, regional and local, are essential to ensure a diversity of dispatches and citizens' freedom of information and expression. In the analysis of the variety of uses, the Media Inspectorate finds that we have a good overall use gap in Norway. The infrastructure ensures that the vast majority have access to media and news, and that large sections of the population use a variety of editorial media. It is important that we are exposed to a variety of sources, while having common arenas for the public conversation. However, the report shows that there is a clear generation gap in media use. Young people use digital media and streaming services to a greater extent than older people. Although overall the population becomes more digital in the media, the oldest are slightly out of the question. Gender, education and income levels also relate to the use of the media. Younger, women and those with low education and incomes are somewhat less oriented than other groups to the Norwegian editor-driven media. This can lead to an information gap between different groups of the population. We in the government agree with the media surveillance that such a distinction could lead to a more fragmented publicity and an increased risk of polarisation and echocambers. We are following this development closely. Last year the NRK set up a robot to look at Norwegian news pages for four months and count the number of women and men. In total, the robot counted 18,038 faces at this time. 38.6 pst. Of them were women. The robot is probably not quite perfect, but the result points in the same direction that a lot of other research shows us. There are trends that genders are not presented equally, and sources are also asked different questions, based on gender. The reasons for this are complex, but it is enormously important that the media continue to work for a better gender balance in their source use. All genders, nationalities and age groups need to be identified in the media. Media surveillance also conducts studies on public confidence in the media. The last survey carried out showed that eight out of ten have high confidence in Norwegian media. We in the government are proud of the Norwegian media, and I am also happy to celebrate Norwegian media when Nordic Media Days open in Bergen next week. The media surveillance services carry out annual studies on the economy of the Norwegian media. Newspapers and broadcasters represented barely 1 pst. by the GDP of mainland Norway in 2020. The user income of the newspapers and revenues generated by the sale of channelling packages, streaming services and distribution plays an increasingly important role in the economy. In 2017, media activities had for the first time greater revenues from the user market than from the advertising market. By 2020, the user income was almost 57 pst. of revenue. Although there has been a small growth in user income, the fall in advertising revenue is the main cause of that development. An important reason for the fall in advertising revenue is the strong position that social media and search engines have gained in the Norwegian advertising market. This development creates uncertainty about future advertising and advertising revenue for Norwegian media businesses. The newspapers are largely capable of holding readers, but the advertising revenue is getting lower and lower. TV viewers look less on traditional linear television, and they are streaming more. There is a reason why commercial television activities have reduced their advertising revenue. The National Media Association’s survey on the payment of news news from 2021 shows that the proportion of persons who declare that they have access to a newspaper subscription in the household has increased from 63pst. in 2018 to 69 pst. in 2021. More and more people are opting for digital subscriptions. In fact, Norway is the world leader in the population’s willingness to pay for digital news, according to the reputable Reuters Institute. The sum of Norwegian media policy, the ability of the media industry to convert and the demand of the audience has helped us to have a strong media industry that is well equipped to continue the digital transformation. At the same time, we should not forget that the media are still critically dependent on the income from the paper newspapers. Today, many of the major media work together on both printing and distribution. If someone or one actor withdraws from this cooperation, the bill for those who remain becomes higher. In the worst case, we could risk having a chain reaction that weakens the economic foundation of the media. We in the government are going to do our job to help the industry continue to succeed. Among other things, we have continued zero VAT for electronic news media up to 2028. The VAT exemption facilitates the digital transformation by facilitating increased revenues from user payments for digital news. This extension has a major impact on the industry. So the main features show that the media industry and freedom of expression are good in Norway. But the government has great ambitions, and we have started so far. Much further work will be needed to ensure strong Norwegian media and to facilitate the provision of good media to all communities in the future. With globalisation and digitalisation, the world is getting closer and closer, and international conditions are playing an increasingly important role – both for the media economy and for the media diversity. The big global technology giants have in many ways simplified our lives, opened up new opportunities to obtain information and lowered people's threshold in order to be able to express themselves. At the same time, there are several aspects of the major global platforms that we need to follow closely, both in the eyes of the Norwegian population and in terms of the competitive conditions of the media industry. We know that the large global platforms are used to spread disinformation and illegal content. At the same time, there's a hairy balance between having too little control and restricting freedom of expression. Uncontrolled dissemination of illegal content is obviously harmful to the public conversation, but we do not want a situation in which the platforms on their own initiative moderate and eliminate so much legal content that it goes beyond just freedom of expression. There are several initiatives on the EU side that will affect the media field in Norway and that we in the government will follow closely. The EU Commission promoted the proposal for the Digital Services Act, DSA Regulation in 2020. The DSA proposal aims at providing greater democratic control and stronger supervision of Internet platforms, reducing the risk of manipulation and disinformation and combating illegal content. It is proposed that very large Internet-based platforms with more than 45 million users in the EU should annually identify, analyse and mitigate the risks associated with the use of the platform, such as the proliferation of illegal content and the deliberate manipulation of the platform. Norway, in a joint opinion of the EEA/EFTA countries to the DSA, has highlighted the problem of modernising digital platforms and even blocking the legal editorial content published by the free editor-directed media. At the end of March, I had the pleasure of meeting Facebook warner Frances Haugen. We discussed issues such as: regulation of these major technological giants, transparency and what governments can do. It was an inspiring meeting with a very brave and important woman. She's really making an effort to raise the issue of these important questions. One of the first things I did when I was delighted to be appointed Minister of Culture and Gender Equality was to take the initiative to improve the dialogue between Norwegian editor-driven media and the global technology platforms. The background is, of course, these challenges we have related to freedom of expression and freedom of the press when global technology platforms can go in and moderate or block legal editorial content published by editor-directed media in Norway. From a Norwegian point of view, future EU regulation may not meet these challenges in a fully satisfactory way. We believe that media users, editor-directed media and platform companies have, and should have, a common interest in the fact that editorial content is as widely available on the platforms as possible. On 22 March there was therefore a full house in the largest meeting room of the Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality. It was probably the first time representatives of Norwegian media and for the large technology platforms were gathered around the same table. Both Facebook and Google participated, along with all the press organizations, the NRK and the largest media audiences in Norway. The media actors gave very good descriptions of the challenges they experience every day with the platforms. With reference to global terms and conditions, they act against content or services already quality assured and published by Norwegian editors responsible. For example, VG editor Gard Steiro told us that Snapchat has, as we know, very strict rules against displaying images that contain body fluids. He showed a picture of a bloody woman with bandages around her head – we all have seen that picture too many times over the past few weeks. So he asked the question, is this picture and this woman with blood in her face and bandages around her head necessary documentation from the war in Ukraine, or is there use of body fluids? The danger arises when editors and journalists and newspaper houses adapt their content to the platform with the strictest rules. In this way, platforms have a limiting and cooling effect on journalism, and journalism should always be free, courageous and critical. We also heard about the platform's view of the challenges, and both sides made it clear in the meeting that they are interested in continuing the dialogue. We have a good hope that Apple too will be connected. Our wish is that the parties exploit the space they now have to develop voluntary driving rules for better interaction between the platforms and the Norwegian editor-directed media. In Norway, we have a strong tradition of responsible media, a broad framework for freedom of expression and a well-functioning system of presseetic self-regulation. That is why we also have good conditions to succeed in self-regulation on the platforms as well. Of course, it has to be up to the parties what they get out of this dialogue, but we're going to follow this up in the autumn. It will always be a good idea to set up meeting places for exchanges, and the aim must be an even better protection of freedom of the press in Norway. While relying on the large global platforms to reach their content, Norwegian media compete against them in the advertising market and in the audience’s time, under very different competitive conditions. The large companies dominate the advertising market, while technological developments have helped companies to operate in a market without physical presence. This challenges the existing international tax framework. The government shall be an active driver in order to give the media fairer conditions of competition in relation to global technology opportunities. On 8 October last year, 137 of the 141 OECD member countries and the G20 Inclusive Framework agreed on a political declaration of principle on the main elements of an international reform for the taxation of the large multinational groups. In December, the OECD published model rules to ensure that large multinational groups have to pay at least 15 pst. tax, no matter how they behave. This will contribute to a more effective and fair taxation of the profits of such companies. At the same time, the reform could also help to mitigate the distortion of competition between different advertising channels, which until now have been in disfavor of Norwegian media. The reform is scheduled to take effect from 2023. In December 2020, the EU Commission also presented proposals for a regulation on digital markets, the so-called Digital Markets Act, DMA. It proposes rules and instruments aimed at the very largest carrier companies, the so-called port guards. The aim is to strengthen competition in the parts of the markets currently controlled by port guards and to put an end to the increasing dominance of these companies. This may include, inter alia: contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of media enterprises in the content and advertising market. DMA includes, inter alia: a prohibition on companies favouring their own services. For Norwegian media actors, it is important that business operators who rely on port watchers’ platform services have access to data generated by their users at the gatekeeper. The DMA also contains provisions to prevent port guards from using data in a way that distorts competition. Norway has a common comment from the EEA and EFTA countries, among others. highlighted the importance of the obligations relating to use and access to data. About a month ago, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers agreed on the design of the DMA. The legal text is now formally approved, before the DMA is expected to come into force from 2023. This year, Norway has the rapporteurship of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and freedom of expression and media pluralism is a priority area in the Sectoral Programme for Culture. In this connection, we should, among other things: raise the challenges related to the importance of technology giants for democratic dialogue and for the Nordic media industry. We are particularly concerned that the giants show greater transparency and that they should not interfere with the freedom of expression and editorial freedom of the media. Together with my Nordic Minister of Culture colleagues, we have ordered a report from Nordicom to look at the impact of platforms on news media assumptions in the Nordic region, and to assess measures. We're also going to invite you to a Nordic conference on these issues for the autumn. It will be a good opportunity to bring together organisations, media companies, politicians and researchers for a wide-ranging discussion on how we can continue to work. In 2018, the EU adopted major amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the so-called AMT Directive. The AMT Directive contains common European regulation of televisions and audiovisual ordering services. One of the most important changes is the regulation of video sharing platform services, such as YouTube, and video sharing functions in social media such as Facebook and Instagram. The main platform services here are not established in Norway but in Ireland. The regulation of video sharing platform services is equally important also in Norway, because it imposes on platforms that many people use to implement measures for, inter alia, the provision of video sharing platform services. to protect minors from harmful content and the general public from illegal content. The amending Directive contains two steps to promote European audiovisual content. Audiovisual ordering services are required to have at least 30 pst. European programme content in its catalogues and that this content should be given a prominent location. Furthermore, each country may choose to require audiovisual media service providers to contribute to the financing of audiovisual productions. Such an obligation may be imposed on both Norwegian service providers and service providers established in other EEA countries that direct their services to Norway. In addition to this, the Directive also includes a number of other provisions, including: enhanced requirements for the organisation of programmes for people with disabilities, increased independence requirements for supervisory authorities in the field and increased flexibility for viewing advertising on television. This Directive is EEA-relevant, but not yet incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The directive requires major changes to the broadcasting legislation, and I intend to send a proposal for the implementation of the directive to be consulted now in the spring. The free position of the media was reinforced by the Media Responsibility Act which entered into force in 2020. Freedom of the press is not a matter of course, as we see clear signs in other European countries. Strong counter-powers make it difficult for the media to hold the rulers responsible and keep citizens informed. The EU Commission concluded in March an open consultation on the forthcoming European Media Freedom Act (European Media Freedom Act). The Commission will ensure media pluralism and independence in Europe and will point to the role of the media on which one of the pillars of our democracy rests. In the hearing, the Commission particularly wished to comment on: transparency and independence related to media ownership and transactions; how to ensure that citizens are exposed to a wide range of media how to ensure the independence of public broadcasters and other state-funded media The Commission has announced that it will present a concrete proposal for regulation in the third quarter of this year. The proposal will be an important step towards ensuring free media throughout Europe. That is why we must be a driving force in this work. We follow this work closely and assess the needs for various input – in dialogue with Norwegian media and Norwegian press organisations. On 8 April, we presented a legislative proposal to the Stortinget which would repeal the last system of systematic advance censorship of opinions in Norway. By abolishing the so-called cinematographic control, responsibility for setting age limits and ensuring that the content is lawful is left to distributors. The cinematographic film is treated in the same way as all other channels for the dissemination of live images, and the media surveillance shall be exercised to ensure compliance with the law when distributors assume responsibility. The state movie control has been in operation since the first film law came into force and Norwegian Film Control was established in 1913. The main objective has been to protect children from content which has been considered harmful for various reasons. Nevertheless, there are also examples of films being exposed to a more political censorship. This arrest is therefore nothing less than a roadblock in the history of freedom of expression in Norway. The digital media landscape is increasingly demanding of us as media users. A recent investigation by the Media Authority shows that every third Norwegian has seen information or news of the war in Ukraine that they later found out was false or contained information that did not vote. Regardless of times of crisis, most of us will be exposed to disinformation. Critical media understanding is the key to the public being able to understand and use the media in an active and conscious way. We in the government will contribute to increased knowledge of critical media understanding, source criticism and privacy in the population. Media surveillance is to prepare this year a new population survey on critical media awareness, to be carried out in 2023. The corresponding 2021 report shows that 44 pst. the population reports that they have been sent or come across false or false news in the last year. 68 pst. have experienced getting over the information they were in doubt about was true. The survey shows that the oldest and youngest people find it more difficult to deal with disinformation and false news than the rest of the population does. It implements a number of measures aimed at strengthening the critical media awareness of the Nordics, particularly among the most vulnerable groups. They shall, inter alia, draw up: educational arrangements for the school and own learning arrangements for seniors and carry out information campaigns. Even with a society where everyone with the law in hand is free to express themselves, we know that parts of the population are not allowed to do exactly that. Freedom of expression is by no means absolute, and we are obliged to protect different groups from hatred, persecution and discrimination. Hateful, discriminatory and other offensive statements are an increasing concern. A study carried out by the Media Authority in 2021 revealed that the most common form of webshikanes is just hateful expressions. One in ten stated that they had experienced the sheiks online. Hateful statements are the kind of sheiks that are both the most common and increasing. You have 2 pst. had experienced hateful comments in 2019, the proportion was increased to 7 pst. in 2021. Hatprat is totally unacceptable and has serious consequences for individuals, groups and society as a whole. According to the Media Authority's investigation, four out of ten people who have been exposed to cyberjikans say that they have become more cautious in saying their opinion, while two out of ten have completely stopped participating in the debate. It is a threat to democracy and our freedom of expression when no one dares to participate in the social debate because they fear to be exposed to heat. We're losing as a society when some voices don't come up. A report on hateful opinions on the Internet from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman shows that seven out of ten feel it is a problem for freedom of expression that people refrain from debate because of the tone of the comment. Women experience this as a bigger problem than men do. The report also shows that women feel much more hot on the basis of gender than men. We in the government will increase the effort to stop online and work so that everyone gets the skills we need to be able to handle online if we are exposed to it. A strategy against hateful expressions was launched in 2016. Its aim is to contribute to a good public exchange of views and to prevent and counteract hateful expressions. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family is responsible for following up many of the Ministry of Culture and Gender Action in the strategy against hateful expressions. Hateful statements are also a central theme of that freedom of expression Commission. In March, the government distributed 19 million. The Commission is currently preparing proposals for action against racism, discrimination and hateful expressions. It is a pleasure that there are so many good initiatives all over the country. We in the government have a clear goal of promoting anti-racism, diversity and dialogue. We want more people to be invited to participate, and we support innovative actions aimed at preventing, informing and developing knowledge. Children and young people have the right to freedom of expression and information and protection against harmful content. A comprehensive policy for the digital everyday life of children must balance these rights. It requires that we base our efforts on the best possible knowledge of how children are actually affected by media content. The Media Victims Committee, which presented its investigation last March, has, among other things, established background on the adverse effects of exposure to different types of media content. In addition, the sample has proposed various concrete measures for increasing the protection of children. The investigation provides a solid basis for further efforts to protect children and young people from harmful content and use. There is a need to explore the space for action in addressing challenges children and young people face in their digital everyday life. New technologies and emerging trends make the field change very rapidly. Many sectors have instruments for – and interests in – secure digital growth. Inter-disciplinary and cross-sectoral cooperation is essential in order to provide the right knowledge, meet challenges effectively and build on the opportunities and benefits of digital delivery to children and young people. That is why it is so important that the government is now going to start work on a big message of secure digital growth. In February, the government promoted a new position on the EU legal act DSA. Here we propose a ban on behavioural marketing aimed at children and young people for the new regulation of digital services in the EU. The reason is that children and young people are particularly vulnerable to the influence of advertising. In order for everyone to have a good media offer, we need a forward-looking media support to help maintain strong Norwegian media. Direct media support has long traditions in Norway. The production grant was established back in 1969 and the stated objective of the scheme was to maintain a differentiated daily press. We have made that clear, but to continue the strong Norwegian media diversity, we still need to ensure predictable financial framework conditions. The Media Support Act states that the government should propose a fixed, long-term financial framework for the NRC and the direct funding schemes for media support for the Storting in a budget proposal the year after the enlargement. Thus, in the budget proposal for 2023, the government is to propose for the first time such a four-year steering signal. Extensive efforts have already been made to provide the best possible basis for decision-making. Several investigations have been carried out by the media, including: a broad review of the direct media support schemes. Overall, the Media Authority concludes that the direct media support schemes are still necessary contributions to the preservation and development of a diversity of editor-driven, journalistic media in Norway. At the end of 2020, 230 newspapers were published in 172 different locations in Norway, of which 152 received production grants. At the same time, we know that the transition to digital is demanding for the smallest local ways. Several of these newspapers are in a vulnerable economic situation. The government will increase the innovation and production grant in a way that ensures good local media development without prejudice to the major national and regional media. We have already started this work by increasing the appropriations for the production grant by 8 million. SEK to local viewers in 2022. A month ago, the Media Department distributed 21 million. kr through the innovation and development grant scheme for news and timeliness media. Fifteen million. NOK 21 million. kr goes to small local media. Several of the projects supported will contribute to raising the local debate. That's good. As Minister of Culture and Gender Equality, I must say that I am pleased that we are now getting the first female broadcaster in the history of the NRK. We in the government are committed to ensuring the role of the NRK as a broad public broadcaster with a strong presence throughout the country, through predictable governance and funding. In order to achieve this predictability, the government is therefore required to provide a four-year steering signal for the NRC’s financial framework in the budget proposal for 2023. With a strong public broadcaster, we need to assess how the funds are best used. As part of this work, last year the Ministry took out the NRK poster at open consultation. It describes the NRK's public broadcasting mission, and it's been a long time since we had a big and wide debate about it. The Ministry has received 43 recordings from bodies stretching from competing media and stakeholder organisations to private individuals. As a NRK enthusiast, I am delighted that there is so much commitment around the important public broadcasting mission. When we consider whether there is a need to adjust the mission of the NRK, the government is going to assume that we are going to ensure the role of the NRK as a broad public broadcaster with a strong presence throughout the country. We still think it is important that the NRK reaches the widest possible extent of its programme provision, which means that the NRK must be present on all the important media platforms. This has contributed to the fact that most people use at least one of the NRK’s daily offerings, and that most people are very satisfied with NRK. At the same time, we have private media that are going well, but that are constantly evolving, and that are successfully developing more and better digital content services. They can do so, among other things. Because we have a Norwegian audience at the top of the world in terms of willingness to pay. Then there is someone who is worried that there will not be enough opportunity to discuss this matter, for example. Here at the Stortinget. To that end, I would say that the government loyally follows up the arrangement that Stortinget was presented in the media support message, which was presented in the previous period by the civil government. It was considered that the review of media policy should form part of a communication part of the budget proposal. So here in the government we want to come up with our assessments of the need for changes to the NRC's general broadcasting mission, and we believe that the Stortinge will also facilitate a thorough and good treatment of the proposals that we make in October. I look forward to that cooperation. The media surveillance authority has recently produced a report on the NRK’s contribution to the media diversity and the impact of the NRK on the competitive situation in the Norwegian media market. In its report, the Media Authority writes that the NRK contributes positively to the media diversity and the overall offer to the audience. It achieves NRK by fulfilling the public broadcasting mission and by cooperating with other actors in the Norwegian media market. The NRK has a wide and varied range of societally important substances with a wide thematic and geographical scope. The majority of the population has NRK as one of their three most widely used sources of news. The supervision points out that the competitive pressure exerted by the NRK towards national commercial operators has strengthened somewhat. At the same time, there is also a positive trend in the commercial media market. The competitive pressure is therefore estimated to have been sharper and at the best for the public. At present, it is considered not to be a short-term or medium-term risk that NRK’s offer will have a negative impact on the supply of commercial operators in the national digital market. This shows that there has been, and is, a right choice to let the NRK be present on the platforms where the audience is. The NRK must defend its position in the digital media market as media use moves from traditional platforms such as linear television and radio. Both for the NRK and other editor-directed media, reaching out with content and establishing a strong relationship with particular children and young people is a challenge. To achieve this, the NRK must be present on the platforms used by these target groups. This is also why the government will not restrict the digital space for action of the NRK. Modernisation of the production grant for news and news media has long been required. In these days, proposals for a new regulation on production grants for news and topicality media are being consulted. In our work on the regulation, we have been engaged in developing the regulatory framework in line with the digitalisation of the media industry. This is what we do to meet the objectives of the scheme and to increase the level of certainty. We will take with us all the input that comes to the hearing, further working to ensure a production grant scheme that stimulates the diversity of news and news media with high-quality independent journalism – throughout the country and for all groups in society. A new regulation is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2023. The contribution to Sami newspapers and Sami-language newspapers shall facilitate democratic debate, opinion and language development in the Sami community. Next year, we will also review the regulations on subsidies to Sami newspapers, with the aim of modernising and making the scheme more effective, including: by making the subsidy scheme platform neutral. The government is particularly concerned with the conditions of quality journalism and the local media. In order to contribute to the development of investigative and critical journalism, the government has already provided support to the Centres for Investigative Journalism in 2022. This in particular helps to strengthen critical journalism in the local media. We are also committed to ensuring a commercial public broadcaster with news broadcasts outside Oslo. Therefore, we will continue the grant for commercial public broadcasting even when the agreement with TV2 expires in 2023. The Government intends to announce a new agreement during 2022, subject to the Storting joining. We come back to the plan to announce a new agreement on commercial public broadcasting in relation to the budget proposal for 2023. We also want to help ensure that the radio industry has the time to implement the digital transition. We recently extended the concessions for local radio operators broadcasting on the FM, by five new years, until 31 December 2026. This ensures that most local radios will be able to continue just as before. We want to announce a new concession round in 2025, which allows local radios to be broadcast on the FM network until 2031. So there are many good initiatives going on, and the government has great ambitions in the field. We've gone so far to start our projects, and it's a lot further in the loop. We look forward to presenting proposals for four-year steering signals to the NRK and the direct media support in the budget for 2023. At the same time, we are keen to see how the media industry and global technology platforms will follow up the dialogue meeting in March. In August we will read the NOU of the Freedom of Speech Commission with great interest. I am sure that there will be thorough work that will provide a good basis for the government's further efforts to secure and strengthen freedom of expression. This statement also illustrates that there are several aspects of the free media and freedom of expression that are beyond our control but that could threaten freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of information, even media pluralism and democracy in the future. This must be included in the formulation of new policies, and we in the government must do our part to ensure that we do not take these fundamental democratic values for granted. With that, I would like to thank you for your attention, and I am looking forward to a media policy debate in two days' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1336	The President will then propose that the statement by the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality on freedom of expression, freedom of the press and on the state of the art and the achievement of its objectives in the media policy 2022 be put to the table in a later meeting in Stortinget. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1352	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to six lines with replies from a member of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1359	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its work on this matter. I would also like to thank the speakers from the Right for bringing a very serious and important theme on the road with their proposals. I am also pleased with the broad commitment we experienced from both sports, schools, health and counselling services and university and research environments during the hearing. All the hearing bodies expressed a great deal of awareness about the problem, and that this is something they're working on. But they also stated that we need to do more, especially in terms of prevention. The Council of State also underlined in its reply to the Committee the need to ensure sport as a safe area for children and young people and to share the concern behind the proposal. An overall committee suggests that an increase in eating disorders is reported in general in society, but that it has been found that athletics have a higher risk of and more frequent incidence of eating disorders than elsewhere in society. The problem is seen in most sports, in most ages and in both sexes, but some sports, where being easy is a competitive advantage, are more often represented. There is broad consensus among all who work with sports, eating disorders and mental health that this is a major social problem as well as a deep serious problem for the individual affected. There is also a strong political consensus that this is a problem that requires action, and that Norway’s sports federation, as the largest player, has a very central and important role to play in this work. A Joint Committee also points out that cross-sectoral cooperation, with knowledge-sharing and interaction between sport, health and school, will be essential to address the challenges facing practitioners. The only disagreement in the case is whether a national action plan or one should be drawn up. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State points out that Norway’s sports association is an autonomous member-based organisation that draws its legitimacy from its members and that sport itself must own and manage its decisions. That's an important clarification. The Council of State therefore considers that a State action plan is not an appropriate procedure for the part of the work that must be within the framework of organised sport. The majority of the Committee shall not call for the State to govern sport. It is, of course, essential that sport and the environments of competence are at the driver’s seat in this work. The sport itself has shown that they are not sufficiently coordinated, but that there is a strong interest in increased cooperation. NIF clearly indicated in the consultation that they wish to take a leading role in the preparation of an action plan in this area. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by a majority composed of the Right, the Party of Progress, the SV and the Left, and consists of two Roman Numeral Decisions: ‘The government is asked to set up a multidisciplinary, coordinating group of experts in which the Norwegian Sports Association is invited to lead the preparation of a proposal for an action plan for a safer sport and the prevention of body miscarriage and eating disorders in sport.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Government is asked to submit a proposal for an action plan for a safer sport and prevention of physical and eating disorders in sport, based on the proposal drawn up by a multidisciplinary coordination group of competences.’ With this, I believe that the matter has been brought before Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1391	In Report. St. 26 for 2011–2012, The Norwegian sports model, which was presented by the Stoltenberg government back in 2012, was the theme of prevention of ethnographic disturbance. One indicates that health is one of the basic values on which sport is based through the Norwegian Sports Association and that prevention of eating disorders among sportsmen is important in order to maintain this value. In the message, a specific project of collaboration, Sunn Jenteidrett, together with the main goals of reducing the incidence of eating disorders and increasing the trainers' competence to create arenas for healthy development. Ten years have passed since the Stortinget dealt with this matter. Throughout the time of the Solberg government, a sports strategy was put in place, where unfortunately I can't see that eating disorders and work against them are easy. It's a shame, but I thought it was nice that the Right's proposal now reminds us of the importance of correcting the search light on the issue. A new report from the Advisory Committee on Eating Disorders reports that some 88 000 Nordics suffer from some form of eating disorder. Nearly half of them are under 30 years of age. About three out of four are women, and also young people down to 8 years of age make contact. There is no doubt that the pressure on mental health care for children and young people is high and that both prevention and low-threshold capacity in municipalities need to be increased. In its response to the proposal, the Council expressed concern about developments and stressed that diagnosis and treatment had to be managed by the health services. It also shows that the government will create a stepping-up plan for mental health with ear-marked funds and the main weight in municipal services. When it comes to Norway’s sports federation, it is an independent organisation for which it is the role of the state to organise, not govern. So I also refer to the NCI hearing note, which confirms that one initially does not want a State action plan, but cooperates with the authorities. On behalf of the Labour Party, I commend the work that NIF has done so far and that they will continue to do. It applies both to concrete stagnating work through the members of the linked and to providing society with knowledge of the sport that it experiences as a dangerous development. The Labour Party looks forward to enhanced and coordinated efforts in the fight against eating disorders. In view of this, we have chosen not to support the proposal from the Right, but to make a separate proposal together with the Center Party, which reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to have good dialogue with sport to strengthen cooperation for a healthier sport and to contribute to the prevention of physical dissatisfaction and eating disorders.’ I finally take up proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1411	The representative Ask Bakke has drawn up the proposal of which the Labour Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1416	In recent times, there have been numerous reports in the media that too many sportsmen experience body dissatisfaction and develop eating disorders. This applies to athletes at all levels, in many different sports, at almost all ages, and it affects practitioners regardless of sex. Studies show that the proportion of those with eating disorders is much higher among those in our upper secondary schools than among those not engaged in high-level sports. It's very alarming. We all want sport to be a safe and good arena. But, unfortunately, it's not for everyone. We have an increase in eating disorders in general in society, but sport is unfortunately also an arena where young people are particularly vulnerable. However, sport is an important part of the solution, for it is where eating disorders can be detected early and also prevented. It requires, however, that trainers, teachers, parents and other adults around the practitioners know what to look for, that they have basic skills to prevent and protect against unfortunate developments, and that they have competent people with whom they can both rely and cooperate. The background to this proposal for a representative is not that anything is done to prevent and prevent body miscarriage and eating disorders in sport. It does. But this has been a problem for many decades. I remember myself when I was in a country camp for rhythmic gymnastics in my youth. Then, almost every day, we had to stand in line, weigh and write up what we weighed, on a note that hung publicly in the common areas. Now I don't think it's quite so wrong anymore, but there's obviously a need to do something more. Also the sport itself wants to do something more. In the hearing on this matter, in written input and in meetings, there has been a clear expression of it, and they want to cooperate more and coordinate the work more, including across sectors of society. For this is about the upper secondary education, this is about our health sector, it is about our schools, and it is also about training centres and other advisory organisations, such as. ROS, who's working on this. There is a need to build this on competence and knowledge to know what it is that works. Meetings with sport have therefore expressed a desire for a mandate to coordinate work, not only in sport but across sectors. We want to give them that mandate. It's not about overdoing or overdoing sport. It's about us wanting to put things right. Sport is autonomous, but that does not mean that we cannot contribute politically. Of course, the sport should be seated in the driver’s seat. I therefore hope that we can have a majority in favour of our proposals in this matter, and that we can now help the sport to overcome a serious problem that we so far do not have a good solution to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1433	We see a negative development in the development of body miscretion and eating disorders. Most people develop eating disorders in their teens, but more and more are getting younger. When we know at the same time that the mortality of eating disorders is great, it underscores the seriousness. Body care and eating disorders are a social problem, so we need to have an extra focus on taking action by reducing and preventing it. Recently, there has been increased attention to the fact that this is also a challenge in sport. Many children and young people are in sport, and it is important that sport is a safe and good venue. We all have a responsibility to ensure and contribute to this. I am pleased that the Council of State Tritenbergstuen in its reply to the committee shares this concern and emphasises that the government will create a new escalation plan for mental health. There it is natural that the prevention of body miscise and eating disorders will be illuminated. At the same time, the Council of State shows how the government will be able to assist the sport in order to give them the opportunity to give priority to the work on healthy sports. The idea behind the proposal is good. I think most people agree that this is a challenge it is desirable to prevent and reduce. At the same time, the Labour Party and the Centre do not agree that a State action plan that overrides sport is the right way to do so. The Norwegian Sports Association is an autonomous membership-based organisation that governs itself. The responsibility of the state is not to govern volunteering, but to facilitate volunteering and to contribute to strengthening it. The centre party sees the need to work for a healthier sport. Based on the input from the Norwegian Sports Association, they also see the need, and they are already taking various measures. We believe that it is sport itself that needs to determine how they want to continue working on this, and that they need to assess the need for action plans, preferably in cooperation with the state. This is the background to the proposal, promoted by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, where we want the government to have a good dialogue with sport to strengthen cooperation for a healthier sport and to help prevent body miscarriage and eating disorders, rather than over-management, as the majority of the Committee wants. Through the proposal for a representative, the rapporteurs have focused on an important issue. Participation in the consultation shows that this is a theme that creates a large and broad commitment, with different proposals for action. I hope that it is included in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1451	Eating disorders are a public health problem and not least a social problem. Over the last few years, we have seen more and more newspaper headlines alarming this development, especially with regard to children and young people. One of the actors has been the Hospital Eastfold, which was very clear in its concerns, last week also illustrated with a grandfather quoted from the following: “No one can imagine how tough it is when your child says she doesn’t want to live.” There are very strong words that I think all characterize here in the hall, but it also underscores an important point. After a lot of things, and perhaps especially during the pandemic, with the concern for the development and explosion of the field of eating disorders, parents are now earnestly asking to be taken seriously. It's said to be a large increase in children who are struggling with eating disorders, and the numbers I found show an increase of as much as 62 pst. The leader of the ROS, who lives in Bergen, has reported that an increasing number of younger children, in fact down to the age of 7, come in contact for help. I therefore believe that this proposal is one of many proposals that we should be discussing in this field. Do not be in doubt: I have challenged the Minister of Health on this in a number of cases. Unfortunately, there is a lot of political polemics, and hospitals are pushed in front of them. There is no solution, so I'm glad that the Minister of Culture seems to take it a little bit more seriously, although it's not her specialty. It is also important to bring this into the sport and be aware of this in the matters you work with. I hope that the Minister of Culture – along with the Minister of Family Affairs, whom I have also challenged in this field – can push the Minister of Health to take this and not least the children and parents in the greatest seriousness. That being said, I am very happy today for at least one step in the right direction, with the proposal that the Right has promoted, and that we have a majority to move on with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1466	Eating disorders are a serious social problem affecting many and especially young women. It affects about 10 pst between the ages of 15 and 25 years and is with it the largest mental disorder among young women. Prevention of body miscise and eating disorders is a challenge that cannot be reduced to sport or for which sport alone is to be given responsibility. But they both have to and want to play a role. Media attention has largely focused on body pressure among top athletes. We know, however, that the problem extends beyond the whole spectrum of sports. Too many environments face major challenges related to high body focus and sport-specific body-sideisation. In addition to being an important arena for many young people, there is also an arena of volunteering — with many people doing a wonderful job, but where there is also a need for early work and knowledge. Not least this is something that goes far beyond sports alone. All of this confirms the need for a broad and well-established action plan in dialogue with all relevant actors. We know that there is no consensus in research on what causes eating disorders, other than that it is multifaceted. It also includes social explanatory models, such as: In the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among young people in the EU is estimated to be about 2 %, and the number of drugrelated deaths among young people in the EU is about 2 %. ideals of thinness and thereby dissatisfaction with its own body. Prevention of eating disorders is therefore about much more than knowledge, nutrition, recovery and training. It's about how we relate to our bodies. This leads us into a related topic. In many cases stereotypes and discrimination based on old-fashioned and preconceived ideas about sex and identity are reproduced, as well as excessive focus on sex, sexuality and body itself. Dress codes and associated body exposure are a well-known discussion, where, for example: sandvolleyball is one example. Several sports distinguishes with regard to the activities permitted. Women in skiing and battling hockey are just two well-known examples. Discs are under-represented in sports teams compared to heterophiles, and many trans-persons often experience sport as insecure and impracticable. These are interrelated themes, and we therefore believe it is important that the mandate for such an action plan has a clear focus on gender equality. Therefore, Red promotes the following loose proposals: ‘The government is asking for a broad gender perspective with a focus on gender roles, norms and diversity in the mandate of the multidisciplinary, coordinating team of experts led by the Norwegian Sports Association and in the action plan for safer sport and prevention of physical and eating disorders in sport.’ With that, I consider Red's proposals to be taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1486	The representative Hege Bae Nyholt has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1492	As the debate shows, I think we've all seen examples and heard stories that make an impression in this area. These are examples that require action – both at grassroots level and all the way up to us who manage power. Competition and competitive sport are in their nature so that many will push at the borders, precisely to achieve desired results. Therefore, it is also important that there is a device around that can guide, provide advice, support and, in the ultimate sense, intervene and correct. Sports and sports should also be a safe arena, because we want as many as possible to be able to participate and participate from an early age. But it also places an extra responsibility on both sport itself, on the apparatus around sport, and on the seventh and finally also on us who are in power. I would like to stress that I also see and am aware that a lot has already been done, and that there are a lot of good initiatives. That's good. However, when the Left now supports the proposal to both set up a pool of competences and the government submits an action plan, it is because we see that there is a need to bring together the threads and put pressure on the work also from the government, and because the scope of activity of such a work plan also goes beyond that of sport and NIF itself, because sport and sport do not only apply to sports. It also applies to other organisations, and not least to other meetings and activities around them. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State points out that an action plan, as proposed by the majority, could potentially go beyond the autonomy underlying the functioning of organised sport. I am glad that the Council of State points to this itself, because it makes me sure that she is able to find a proper balance when she is going to put down and get this work going. Because it is not in the intention of the proposal that the freedoms and responsibilities of sport should be limited here, but it is a recognition that we, from the state, can also do more, for example. in the field of research, health provision and so much more. It is also important for me to say that we all agree that, for example. volunteering is autonomous, but we still have an active voluntary policy. We agree that sport and the Sports Association have independent freedoms, but we still have an active part in sports policy. Finally, I would also like to say that the Left will support Red's loose proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1509	Eating disorders are a social problem that we must and must face with the broad front and with all available instruments. There is clearly a great need to focus more on both prevention and treatment, on training and guidance of personnel, and to constantly look for all the means to improve our effectiveness. So far in the debate there have also been many horrible stories that we have read and heard about lately, and that we all agree that we cannot be acquainted with. But I disagree with the majority vote on this proposal for a representative, that this problem should be solved by the government going in and controlling what sport, which is an autonomous and autonomous organisation, should do. There is a lot that can be said that the majority shows so little confidence in Norwegian sport and in the Norwegian sports model that they will go in and in-depth control of our largest voluntary organisation. And it's a clear break with an important tradition of arm's length – sport is free. Our role is to have dialogue with it. NIF is an autonomous organisation that draws its legitimacy from its members. And if an action plan with NIF as a impact field has the power it needs, the plan will also have to come from below. In the light of that, I ask the Stortingen to reject the proposal for a majority decision and rather support the proposal of the minority. We need to have, and we have good dialogue – commitment to both sport and other key stakeholders. From the first conversation with the sport, eating disorders have been on the agenda, and there is also a clear requirement that this be prioritised in the letters of assignment with the games. But then it is also that the sport itself has set this as one of the most important and most priority areas to work with in the future. Of course they do. The government is running a stepping-up plan for mental health, with earmarked funds, through the Ministry of Health. We need to ensure increased capacity in specialist health services, prevent the dismantling of bed places and have a specific focus on child and youth psychiatry and on the DPS around the country. The Committee points to the need for research and competence, and I take the issues and needs into account in the already established cooperation with the Centre for Sport Damage Research at Norway's Sports College. New curricula have been introduced which introduce the multi-disciplinary theme of public health and lifelong learning, and provide good opportunities for schools and teachers to work well against body miscise and eating disorders. We all agree that we need to step up efforts to get a safer sport, but we cannot approach health challenges by depriving autonomous organisations of ownership of their own processes. A State action plan for sport is therefore not an appropriate procedure
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1537	I have a great deal of respect for the fact that some sectors have a high degree of autonomy, and there is a lot of policy we should not interfere with. But here it's not about control. If you have read the setting, I would say that everything talked about lack of trust and respect is, with respect to reporting, just – yes, I don't know what word I'm going to use, but that's just not what it's about, and I think the council knows that. My experience from the Education and Research Committee, which is in a somewhat similar situation, is that it does not mean that we cannot contribute politically to areas of activity. In the cultural sector, too, there is an important principle with an arm's length distance, but it does not prevent investment in projects, for example. in the fields of equality and diversity. The sports strategy of the Solberg government, which is mentioned, is just an example of that, and it has previously said to the Council of State here in the Chamber that she wants to follow up. Thus, it is possible to contribute to the dredging of actors in autonomous sectors on specific issues, and this is the case. This is a problem you haven't been able to solve in many years. Does the Council not see that a contribution from the Ministry will provide the sport with resources to address this in a new way, and that we can now succeed in reducing the number of young people in sport?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1544	I really agree with the representative, but the representative does not propose what she says here that she does. It is precisely that we should help the government to help solve this problem, not as the representative proposes in the proposal, that the government should set up a sample where the NIF should be involved. The sport already works well with this. We have this as one of our central themes in the dialogue and cooperation with sport, and we are already contributing through the drugs, where the fight against eating disorders is one of the priorities of sport. We can help to give money to cultural actors or independent actors and have an arm's length distance, but we do not decide that the government should set up a sample to solve a problem that sport has. It has to be sport itself, and sport doesn't want this drudgery that Storting's opposition thinks they're giving them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1551	Firstly, the sport has changed its vision since the first consultation they made, and secondly, I think again that the Council of State is reading our proposals with some disgust. What we're talking about is, we're going to facilitate, we're going to help them get resources, we're going to have a sample that can work on this, and we're going to coordinate our work across many different sectors. It is done in many other contexts, both in sport, in culture and in the education sector, so this is not unheard of. The Council of State said that she would do everything she can, on a broad front and with all the available tools, to contribute to this. In an interview with Dagbladet in November, the Council of State was asked: Will the earmarked funds be used for this work? Then the answer was: ‘I can say yes to that. It gets through the games and there is also something sport has asked for itself." In that case, can the Council of State explain how she wishes, as she was also now involved, to contribute financially? Do you want funds to be earmarked for this through the games?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1563	This work against eating disorders is something that sport itself, through the Norwegian Sports Association, has put high on the agenda. That's one of the things that they work most with now in the current period. It is therefore also the case that when we recently allocated NCI tipping funds before Christmas, the letter of allocation stated that work on eating disorders should be given special priority. We're doing this because we just in the dialogue with sport know a lot about what they're doing. So it's already the way we finance their work and give them the opportunity to do more. But it is an important principle that sport must be allowed to organise that work itself, and it is not that sport itself has come to the government and asked us to set up a coordinating selection. That's where the representative is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1568	I want to say that there's a big difference between saying that you're going to give earmarked funds for this, and pointing to what sport already does. The sport does a lot, we all agree on that. They've been doing that for years, and they've actually increased their efforts. That's right. But to say in an interview that you want to earmark funds, and then to tell the sports that this must be their priority through the means they are already given is two very different things. It's, I think, not going on a broad front and using all the available tools. This has been a process. This was an initiative that came from us at Stortinget, it was not the sport that came to the ministry, but we have in repeated meetings with the sport, with many of the actors, several times, worked to the effect that it is this sport that now also wants to go in for, because they want to have a mandate to work across the sector and to coordinate and cooperate on the efforts that – individually – are being done on many fronts of sport. This is where I believe it is not the government of the department. It says in the vote, and it also says in the proposal, that a proposal from the sport itself should be submitted, on which this should be based.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1575	Yes, but sport can do it itself today. Of course, the sport does not want the government to go in and control what the sport is going to do. That's what's going to be wrong. Then I think the representative has misunderstood a little how Norwegian sport is financed, for Norwegian sport is almost exclusively financed through the tipping instruments. It is true that when the annual letters of award come with the tipping agents, there is the priority to be given to sport. So yes, sport has been given money to work against eating disorders for the current year, because they have been allocated their tipping drugs, and we agree on the areas to be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1580	I don't know if we're talking a little past each other, the state council and I. It's not about sports not doing anything about this, and it's already prioritizing it, but we need a reinforced effort. Nor is it the case that there are no areas of sport, for example: in the sport strategy, which is not about this, by the way, but is about reopening after the pandemic, where there are concrete measures to be financed outside the usual. Money is given for anti-doping work, money is given for damage prevention. It is not that we cannot contribute extra funds to a bet for a period of time to help sports. This wants sport itself. One of the challenges is that it's cross-sectoral, and then I think what the Council of State is saying is just shifting all responsibility over to the sport. We politicians can contribute, even to autonomous sectors, if we want to. I hope there's a majority in this room that wants to, because I think that'll be one of the solutions that the sport can overcome this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1586	We contribute politically in all manner of sport. The sport has good dialogue with my department, good dialogue with the Ministry of Health – all doors are open. We'll sort this out together, in dialogue, but it's crossing a line that the government is going to set up a sample that the sport hasn't asked for. I am surprised that the representative is here today and believes that the sport is for this. This is to break the basic principle that sport is autonomous. So for the current year, sport has gotten $25 million. kr more in tippers than it received last year, among others. because we believe that priority should be given to participation for children and young people, eating disorders, etc. So even if you haven't earmarked money over the state budget, it's also the way that the money allocated through the funds is going to go to the areas that are important and that are prioritised by the sport itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1593	It was very tempting to comment here, but I will try to be brief. In summary, the Minister of Culture is pushing the sport in front of him on this issue, the Minister of Health is pushing hospitals in front of him, and the Minister of Children and Family is following the situation closely, as is the case in many other cases. Can the Minister of Culture agree to drop some of the polemics and agree that we should take seriously the parents who are now asking for it, and follow it up concretely? Then my question becomes to the Minister of Culture: can the Council of State promise that she will work against the Minister of Health to increase this effort in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1600	It is with respect to report the opposition that conducts polemics here today, because later on you will be asked to start work that is not going on. On the contrary, it is totally wrong. If you know the sport and follow what they're doing, you know that they're doing well, and that they're working on a broad front against these problems. It is not the case that sport needs a government-reduced sample. We have good dialogue, good cooperation, and we've also given extra money to this right here. I take this very seriously, but this and the terrible stories we have heard are not solved by the fact that the government overrules sport. I can promise that I am working against eating disorders, but of course I can't stand here today forcing something from the revised state budget, and I think the representative understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1607	It has not been difficult in any way to understand that the Minister of Culture is against this proposal we are dealing with today, but I will try to challenge again: what can the Minister of Culture guarantee that she will do about this type of problem in her field?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1612	As I said, we already went to work the second day, in my first dialogue meeting with sports, through this with eating disorders in sports. I was given a thorough explanation of what sport is doing, and how they are stepping up this work, and I also requested that this be given priority. Since then, we have a monthly and good dialogue about what's going on. I have explained what the government has promised to do in the health section of the budget to strengthen the work against mental ill health, physical dissatisfaction and eating disorders. It is also the case that we already have the Centre for Sport Damage Research at the Sports School, which receives basic grants from the KUD, and which works well against eating disorders in its portfolio. We have dialogue with that centre, and we are also looking at strengthening efforts in this area. I fully agree that we have to take into account that we need more knowledge and dissemination of knowledge about this here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1619	The chord shift has been completed. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1626	Most of us probably think of girls immediately when the theme of body miscretion and eating disorders appear, and it might be natural from the impression we get, among other things. through the media, but it's probably a long way from the correct image. Let me also bring a little bit of a boy's perspective into the debate. When media today writes a case or arranges a debate about influencers or body pressure, most often the debate is about plastic surgery and bloggers that affect young girls, while the boys often sit on the sideline. At the same time, the number of young men with just eating disorders is increasing. «You look totally raw», «the most sickest body», «look at that stomach»; this type of feedback thrives in the comment fields and helps to build up under the unhealthy body focus. For many, it gives confirmation and recognition, but for young people, insecure and easily affectable, the effect may be quite different. Many boys give the impression that they're self-confident and happy, while the truth may be the opposite. Many see themselves in the mirror at the gym and are anything but satisfied with the mirror image that meets them. The guys drop more often than the girls just to talk. Psychiatric health, body pressure, eating disorders and everything in between are taboos that are often on the agenda, but unfortunately few of the boys are involved in the debate. The Committee agrees that it is important to sport a safe arena, especially for young people. To succeed in this, we have to be able to think about cross silos. Here, sport, health and school must work together on knowledge acquisition, knowledge sharing and interaction. We have to have the organized sport, which the council is very concerned with in the line change, but it's just as important to have the unorganized part. Especially a training centre sector important here, therefore I am pleased with the commitment also to work in the Committee's work. Then we also have to take top-notch gymnasiums seriously, and they have asked quite specifically that work against body miscise and eating disorders be incorporated into the curricula to a greater extent. There is something the Ministry of Knowledge should consider, and not only for students in high-school sports; this is knowledge young people need, completely independent of study choices. What we are now discussing is closely related to mental health, and much can be prevented by following the intentions of the draft representative. That's why it's a shame the Council of State is hiding behind the fact that the state is not going to rule the sport. I'm 100 pst. agree, both as trust-chosen in sport and as big business policy. But this is not about governing sport; it is about giving sport the necessary support and organisation to succeed in this important work. That's the least we can give them this way, and it does fortunately a majority in the Grand Duchy when this matter is going up to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1641	My local, Drammen's magazine, writes about Wilde who slimmed down to speed up skiing. It ended with total collapse. 14-year-old Vilde was on training camp in Oberhof with other young people who put their money on ski shooting in 2011. The collapse occurred after several years of avoiding meals and pecking in the food. There were ups and downs after this. It's okay with Wilde today. She's taking physiotherapy training, but there's been a long way there. She warns other young people in a chronicle, even in the NRK opinion, because in 2011 the coach in Oberhof asked, ‘Are you okay?’ And she replied first, after a long time, ‘I'm fine’ – even if everything was wrong. Sport is an arena where young people and children are particularly vulnerable. Sport is also about competing and performance, and it is easy to take solutions that deliver rapid results, such as losing weight, whether you want to ski faster or jump further. We know all about that. Sports, the Olympics and high-school sports are doing very well, not least the Norwegian Sports Federation. Sun sport is part of the Sport Federation’s 2020 initiative, working on research-based and prevention measures to disseminate knowledge about sport. But as the committee itself says in the attitude, and it is unanimous at this point: there are still major challenges related to body pressure in sport, and it is absolutely necessary to intensify awareness-raising work. It simply has to do more. Yes, what is to be done? Cooperation between sport, healthcare and research environments needs to be strengthened in order to improve the skills of trainers and administrative appliances. You have to connect environments to get the right measures, and we need to know more about what causes eating disorders, more about prevention. Then it becomes very disappointing that the Council of State and the government are hiding behind the autonomy of sport and do not support the proposal for an action plan. Of course, the Council of State can support this. It simply lacks will. We want sport to be a safe arena for children and young people. I guess everyone in this room wants that, and we don't want Wild people to experience what she did, and not that others do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1654	This representative proposal deals with a serious and worrying topic: eating disorders and physical dissatisfaction in sport. This is a social problem that has been on the agenda for a long time, but which has recently gained a new focus, fortunately, among other things. after Maren Lundby and others took a settlement with the pressure in their sport. This is a problem that all of us in the hall want to find a solution as quickly as possible, but there is no question and problem that the government really takes for granted and will continue to work actively with. There must now be no doubt about that. We are not voting for this representative sale today, because we believe that the government should absolutely not instruct sport when it comes to this subject – it will be wrong. The Norwegian Sports Association is an autonomous voluntary organisation that will and will have to decide what to do, including on this issue. It is a matter of principle and, with all its good competence and great commitment, we must now be able to trust that sport and the Sports Association take this responsibility as best they can and meet this problem. That responsibility is for the Sports Association itself, and they are not happy – even though the opposition has claimed it several times now – for this proposal for a representative in this way and with this instruction. However, eating disorders and body problems are not just a common problem in sport. It's a big and growing social problem that many people have been facing, so it's affecting younger and younger children – and boys – and the reports that came after the pandemic are really disturbing reading. That's why I'm glad that the government is in the process of having a very intrusive mental health escalation plan, among other things. with a focus on children and young people. We've been waiting a long time for that. There was no hearing for this kind of escalating plan with the government we've had, and we're now suffering from it. With regard to how this is to be handled in the future, it becomes incredibly demanding, but the escalation plan is under way. I am also very pleased that, during the consultation, many good proposals were made from the professional community, both within and in relation to the sporting environment, which want to address these challenges at all levels of sport. We in the Center Party therefore wholeheartedly support our proposal in this matter, asking the government to have good dialogue with sport to strengthen cooperation for a healthier sport and to contribute to preventing body miscretion and eating disorders. For it is both right and important that the Sports Association be supported in carrying out its quality work in this important area, preferably on its own and on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1667	A healthy sports culture is one of the most beautiful and valuable things we can have in our society – a healthy sports culture, which includes everyone regardless of background, gender and talent from an early age, which contributes to the joy and mastery of safe arenas with engaged adults. Eating disorders are a growing problem in society, and we have to take this seriously. It no longer lasts to work at the top of the sports pyramid. If we are to overcome the growing trend of eating disorders among more and more young people, we need to work systematically both in the professional sports community and in the voluntary community. Child sport is fun, and it should preferably be for a long time. If we are to ensure that children's sport has a place for everyone, knowledge of eating disorders and how best to prevent them must be put on the agenda of all sports and associations throughout the country. It's unobtrusive that it's the trainer it depends on, or that there's other parents' reaction that determines whether you feel good enough or crack enough to keep playing football when you're 10–11. It shouldn't be a theme. As a society, we have a lot to thank Totens Maren Lundby for. In October she told me that she dropped the Olympics in Beijing. She would not slim down in an irresponsible way. She explained that it was a heavy but good choice for her own health. Fortunately, she got lots of boasts, and I have never been more proud of being a resident than I was at that time. Researcher and nutritionist in Sunn Sport, Kristin Jonvik, commends the ski jumper for the choice she made, and stresses the importance of this to young practitioners. Body gets too much focus from early age. It is vulnerable to young people who are in a phase where you often compare with others. As a society, we should be very aware of that. Ski jumps have long worn out problems around weight. Therefore, Jonvik also points out that the message from Maren is more important now when the parallel sport mirrors the top sport more than before. Taking the play from children and young people and putting a performance pressure on them can be challenging to have a healthy relationship with diet, she says. The focus on jumping sports has also shown that body pressure and eating disorders not only affect girls but also boys. It's important that we approach the entire width of our sportswear and take care of both girls and boys in a good way. If we are to meet the challenges, systematic information and planning is required in the work on an inclusive and healthy sport for all, where parents, sports teams and the top sports nation of Norway must work together. There is no doubt that greater efforts are needed to achieve cross-sectoral cooperation for the benefit of children and young people, for the benefit of sport and for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1682	I just felt to take the word one last time to underline something. I do that because repeatedly from the government parties it is mentioned that this is a proposal that will override and govern sport in detail, which should be autonomous. I would just like to stress that on the left, this is not a proposal to empower the Council of State to go in and regulate in detail how the Norwegian Sports Federation will operate. This is a proposal on how to contribute to these issues by the state. That is precisely why this proposal also gives a mandate to both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Knowledge. So even though the council here in the Chamber will not see that side, I hope at least that she will take this with her when it is now up to the majority to get this work started. It is a proposal on the state contribution, not on the detailed regulation of the Sports Federation. I would also like to remind you that it is more than Norway’s sports federation that is also responsible for athletes and sportsmen from a young age. There are also more environments to competition than only Norway’s sports federations. So I hope she also invites more environments into the competence group that it will also propose to now put down.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1690	There is no disagreement that diagnosis is a job for the health service. There is no disagreement that sport has done a lot of important work. There is no disagreement that there is still a problem that requires great attention. Despite vigorous efforts over many years, sport has not achieved the results it wants. The sport needs drag help. They need knowledge acquisition, mapping and more resources to train their leaders and trainers. At the same time, the challenge of eating disorders is a problem far beyond the scope of sport. Sport is also run by non-Norway sports federations, and more and more — as was pointed out here — use the country’s training centres. These centres also need knowledge and drag assistance. I do not understand that this proposal is seen as deciding over sport all the time we invite sport to lead the work of drawing up a plan. As the leader of this work, sport can just say something about what they need, and what they want. I would also like to inform you that we think the solution proposed by the Red was a good proposal, and we want to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1703	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox There is a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1717	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting, and we start with the remaining issues from Thursday, April 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1729	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Birgit Oline Kjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Birgit Oline Kjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a ban on all uses of loose rubber cullet, re-slicing car tyres and any use of cast rubber cullet where there is a risk of exposure and leaching. The investigation shall include an assessment of the device on a compensation scheme for interested parties. [[municipalities, sport teams, etc.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1753	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Green and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make a general proposal to prohibit any use of rubber cullet and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests, on the next revision of the grant scheme for installations for sport and physical activity, to be implemented by 15 June 2022, an exception to the current rule on the rehabilitation of sports tyres only after 10 years of use, in order to ensure funding for installations that are found to have a shorter life span, when this results from testing new solutions without loose rubber cullet.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1782	The Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1801	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Kari-Anne Jønnes on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left proposal No 2, from Kari-Anne Jønnes on behalf of Right and Left There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking in dialogue with the higher education institutions to ensure that all students are offered access to participation in the physical learning environment on the same scale as before the pandemic, while at the same time assessing further measures that support higher quality in the sharing of professional content, new digital learning platforms and the digitisation of education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1825	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to consider measures to provide more quality education to obtain lost progress in the study of the pandemic. This must be done in dialogue with higher education institutions. In this assessment and dialogue, one can specifically look at increasing the number of teaching hours, extending the length of the academic year, facilitating a closer professional follow-up of the students and possible problem-solving with the support of students.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1847	The Right Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1866	In the course of the debate, Tore Vamraak has put forward eight proposals on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the end of April 2022 at the latest to present a package of measures to re-establish lost professional and social learning and close knowledge gaps. This shall follow key recommendations from the Parr report and give enhanced demands and expectations to school owners to implement both short-term and long-term measures to identify and remedy the consequences of the coronary apathy for children and young people in school. The Government is asked to assess the economic impact and to return to the Stortinget at the latest, together with the corresponding draft budget for the revised national budget for 2022.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals to facilitate the implementation of new and extended summer school services in municipalities and county municipalities that need and wish to do so, following the same model as in 2021.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to oblige the school owner to monitor the student’s reading and accounting skills before school starts and to provide intensive reading and billing training to students who need it.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to follow up the completion reform by asking the county councils to offer introductory subjects in Norwegian, math and English to students who have weak grades on their way out of high school and are at risk of falling away’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of a national lesson lift from school start in August 2022.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is clearly asked by the government to oblige school owners to ensure adequate systems of good follow-up throughout the school cycle to ensure attendance and a plan for follow-up to absence from the first hour, with specific measures to reduce critically high absenteeism.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider the introduction of a national register of absenteeism for primary schools.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a follow-up obligation in which all primary schools must have an obligation to follow-up absences of more than 10 per cent.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1938	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from the Helge Place on behalf of the Right, Red, Left and Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 2, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party, Red, Left and Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 3, by Alfred Jens Bjørlo on behalf of the Left and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with a package of measures to further develop the tourism industry after the pandemic, based on the 2021 National Travel Strategy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1965	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to replace today’s discrimination in the VAT system of food served at a place of serving and food taken out of the place of serving with non-discrimination, with a view to lower VAT on food served at the place of serving.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e1980	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right, the Red, the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals for measures to increase the recruitment of skilled workers to industries which have been particularly affected by State measures for the protection of disease during the coronary apathy.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2016	During the debate Hans Andreas Limi put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to extend its offer of tax and price reductions towards the wage settlement by the following steps: 1) The power support system is extended by providing a coverage of 100 pst. above 50 ø/kWt. 2) Excise duties on petrol and diesel are abolished. 3) The VAT on food is halved from the level of the day.» Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2048	I voted wrong! I should have voted for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2053	The result is that 84 representatives voted in favour and 13 voted in favour. – Thus the setting is consonant.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2065	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Mahmoud Farahmand on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No 2, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2022, to submit proposals for postponing the payment of property taxes on farm concessions acquired before 1998 pending the investigation into the Tax Committee.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2089	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right and left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess the gradual phasing-in of property taxes on breeding permits acquired before 1998’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2111	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2123	Case No. 13 was interpellation. The size then goes to voting over the 2, 3 and 8 issues on today's map. Case No. 1 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2139	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Terje Hansen on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement, Red and Left proposal No 2, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right, from the front, from the red and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the Finnmark race in order to continue and secure funding for the ‘Finnmark race – A tool for promoting Norway’ project in 2022 and 2023, and to return to the Stortinget with proposals in the revised national budget for 2022.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2163	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the Finnmark race in order to assess the continuation of the ‘Finnmark race – A tool for promoting Norway’ project in 2022 and 2023, and to report this to the Stortinget in the revised national budget for 2022.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Advance Party, the Red, the Left and the Christian People's Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2189	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2208	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left and Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 2 and 3, by Terje Hansen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 4, from Hege Bae Nyholt on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals with measures to avoid the reduction or sale of food grain storage and storage capacity infrastructure, if there are no adequate alternatives in place.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2237	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Group of the European People's Party, the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Free Alliance. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess a risk-relief scheme so that farmers sow food grain and obtain production finances even if the crops do not become of food quality.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2254	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Group of the European People's Party, the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Free Alliance. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for swift implementation of exceptional measures to stimulate increased cereal production in Norway, including increases in cereal prices to farmers and compensation for increased fertiliser and energy prices.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2271	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate way to inform the government of its management of the very challenging agricultural situation at the start of the growing season, with particular emphasis on preparedness, self-sufficiency, high fertiliser prices and the profitability of grain production and what measures the government is considering to meet the challenges’.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2296	The Progress Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2344	The President proposes that the draft representative be sent to the Judicial Committee. The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2351	The Progress Party wishes to maintain our original proposal, namely that the matter is dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. it is made available to the representatives for a period of at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2356	This means that there is a need for more information about the method of treatment. Alternatively, there will be a vote between the president's proposal on committee procedure and the proposal of the Progress Party on Rules of Procedure § 39, second paragraph, point (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2370	Further references were made: 7th@item: inlistbox Changes in the State budget 2022 under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food [[461]] [[2021-2022]] Onest. : To be sent to the Business Committee. Eight. Representative proposals by the depositors Frank Edvard Sve and Morten Stordalen to cut the holiday picture on Nordøyvegen (Document 8:237 S [[462]] [[2021-2022]] Onest. : Sent to the Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2384	The size goes back to the treatment of today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2400	We have many important tasks here at Stortinget, but I dare say that one of the most important things we face in the coming decades is to facilitate the creation of more profitable jobs. In order to have a good and sustainable society, the NHO believes that a net of 250,000 new jobs need to be created in the private sector by 2030. This is justified in the report ‘Next Moves’. Also in the perspective statement that came out a little over a year ago, it is well justified that we need more jobs that can provide tax revenue to the treasury. The petroleum industry will no longer be a growth engine in the Norwegian economy. These very profitable jobs must be replaced by other profitable jobs. This year, McKinsey launched a concrete roadmap on how Norway can create 210 000 new export-oriented jobs in ten specific potential industries: hydrogen, sea wind, batteries, carbon capture and storage, green maritime industry, industrial software, consumer platforms, circularity, aquaculture and tourism. McKinsey estimates increased value creation to 310 billion. kr every year if the recommendations in the report are followed. The McKinsey report points to educational needs for each of the ten potential industries. According to McKinsey’s estimates, recruitment needs will be around 7 000 to 8 000 engineers across the battery value chain by 2030. The company therefore recommends setting up its own study programmes for battery technology, while increasing the capacity of existing training programmes in process chemistry, electrochemistry, metallurgical process disciplines and other large-scale production. In addition, McKinsey estimates that there will be a need for approx. 16,000 operators for battery cell production alone in 2030. Up to 80 pst. by all those employed in cell production are operators. Some of the skills needs can be met through the transfer of skills from other industrial areas, but McKinsey also recommends the creation of separate lines for ‘battery technicians’, as well as the further focus on battery production in existing vocational training courses such as: machinery operator, logistics and storage personnel, quality and calibration subjects and production techniques, as well as within safety and HMS lines. In addition to the education system, McKinsey points out that there is a need to establish national testing facilities to create a learning arena for education that meets the need for academic and industrial testing. Furthermore, McKinsey points out that Norwegian battery production depends on a commitment to research and development. This was a little deep dive in just one of the ten potential industries. The time is not enough to go through everyone, but the battery industry can serve as an illustration of the great educational and research promise we need to establish a new, profitable export industry in Norway. Many industries require real-time investment. It has been recognised for a long time that the value-generating work of the future needs more in real-life education. Now, however, we are told from the higher education sector that they are struggling with the recruitment of real-life colleges. It underlines that we need to think in a holistic way: promote real science, be clear from the authorities that there are great opportunities in real science, and provide young people with both motivation and basic skills in real science. Only then can we hope that we will be able to train all the engineers and operators we need in future potential industries. I thank you for the opportunity to put this topic on the agenda and look forward to hearing the views of the Council of State, and I look forward to the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2423	Thank you to the interpellant for an important question. The population's competence is the most important resource we have. It's also a limited resource. I think we're going to run out of money for people before Norway runs out of money. Young people are getting older, young people are getting smaller, and recruiting from abroad may be more difficult. We already see trends of this kind today. Competence needs in the health and care sector are increasing, while the high level of unmet business needs are growing. In rural areas in particular, it is difficult to meet skills needs. At the same time, there is a significant proportion of the adult population outside the labour market, often due to lack of education and skills. I'm worried that the math doesn't go up. In the future, we will need to plan better, and we need to prioritise harder. For this reason, I would like to send a message to the Stortinget – an outlook message – which will provide an account of future skills needs and government priorities. The overall objective of the Communication will be to meet the future skills needs of working and social life and to ensure that citizens throughout the country have access to education. One of the themes to be addressed in the outlook is the skills needs related to industry, new industries, and what we call green industries. The government is now working on a green industrial promise to create profitable and attractive jobs throughout the country. The government's aim is to use our competences in areas where we are already world leaders, to develop industrial projects, for example. within liquid sea winds, various forms of renewable energy, carbon handling and possibly batteries. The value creation and jobs resulting from innovation and innovation are based on a well-functioning knowledge system and strong research and education environments, as well as rich natural resources. I am concerned that research and innovation policies are being developed to promote competence across the country, build strong research environments and thus contribute to solving societal challenges. Therefore, the government will revise the long-term research and higher education plan, and it is natural that the plan prioritises areas of strategic importance for Norway and Norwegian industries. It is not enough just to be involved in the number of places of study and those newly educated. We have to tackle the problem of a multiple-sided lack of competence. We need to look at how we can mobilise the labour reserve, get more young people through higher education, recruit skilled workers from abroad and keep our own workforce up to date. In the Hurdal platform, the government announces a broad reform of labour skills. The government will develop such a reform in close cooperation with the social partners, and the specific challenges facing the industry will be a central theme in this work. The Hurdal platform also clearly determines a bet in vocational schools. Vocational schools play an important role in the training of professionals, in continuing training and in the further development of labour force throughout the country. We have launched several new tripartite professional skills building programmes. Among other things, we have reestablished programmes for the industrial and construction industries that started in 2019. No matter where you go to Norway today, you see that people are missing and that people with the right skills are lacking. In order to ensure access to skills for industry and the rest of the working life in the districts, the government is betting on flexible and decentralised education. We've put in 184 million. kr in year for that purpose. The funds shall go to study centres and to flexible and decentralised services. Study centres can play an important role in facilitating the provision of training for people in the districts who need employment in the region. The government will therefore gradually develop a good network of study centres throughout the country, in places that do not currently have a place of study or access to higher education. In addition, vocational schools, colleges and universities will be given the opportunity to provide more professional services so that education becomes even more accessible to people who, for various reasons, do not have the opportunity to study full time at one of the permanent places of study. In conclusion, like the representative Vamraak, I have a deep commitment that we can solve what are common skills needs on behalf of society in the future. So I hope that I have this hall with me at least in a reflection that we'll be a little humble considering what this might be. There are other systems that have tried to plan ahead in time, whether there have been five-year plans or other things. What we can do on our part is to provide good skills, and then business and research have to do the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2453	I thank the Council of State for its constructive and positive approach to the issue and his strong commitment to the matter. The outlook announced by the Council of State will be an important document that can give a good direction. It will be exciting to look at that message when it arrives. Of course, I agree that there are more sources of labour than newly-trained youth. It is important that we both make use of the potential labour reserve among Norwegian citizens and provide the right opportunities for non-resident workers. I was in Grimstad last month, visiting two educational and research institutions that are central to the planned Morrow battery plant in Arendal. The University of Agder establishes a battery technology education offer, and the technical school in Agder, which starts in new premises right at the university, will train process operators to the battery factory. In addition, Morrow establishes its Battery Research Center inside the Grimstad campus. In this way, they achieve just the close link between academics and business that McKinsey points to as a success factor. This is one local example of how educational provision is well built up around the local industrial initiative. This offer is equally complete in the most recent generation – the education offer is built in parallel with the battery factory. There is therefore a clear need for even better coordination between industry, the authorities and the various educational institutions throughout Norway. I haven't ordered Norway to invest in exactly these ten potential industries that McKinsey points to, and only on these ten, but the report is clear that to succeed in the industries we choose to invest in, it has to be heavily invested in, among other things. education and research as well as other important framework conditions included in the report. In the higher education sector, some areas need to be given priority at the expense of others. Signals are sent to industrial actors and to our children about what the state wants to facilitate, and what the state is not interested in facilitating. In this room, the potential negative aspects of industrial efforts are debated more often than the need for profitable jobs and how best to facilitate value creation. It contributes to uncertainty for Norwegian industry and foreign actors who are considering their establishment in Norway. And as the McKinsey report shows, society needs to put up with a large-scale and focused effort on education and research in order for it to be attractive to establish itself in the ten potential industries. I am therefore curious whether the Council of State has clear signals to send to Norwegian and foreign actors about ambitions for the creation of more profitable jobs and what concrete actions the Council of State and the Government will take to build up relevant training offers and to establish relevant research and development programmes and arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2472	Many of these questions I'm going to invite Stortinget to join in and think about in this viewing announcement. So I'll give you a couple of general considerations. Firstly, at my discretion and that of the government, profitability must be the basis of new industries in Norway. We solve nothing by doing things that don't pay off, or producing things that aren't commercial demand for either in Norway or on the world market. We have rich opportunities in this country both related to existing industries and to building on and further developing them and certainly, just as in the past, related to developing new technologies, new industries, and so ready to build industry and value creation on it. It's also that it's not just the competence it's in. There's two things to say about it. For example, related to battery factories, I have been told that an average battery factory needs approx. as much electricity as Trondheim city. So before we've done anything about the overall power situation in Norway, I think that kind of large-scale start-ups can get tough, unless there's someone who uses significantly less power than you're already doing today. The second is that much of the knowledge and competence related to process and industry is also generic. Many would say that it is in principle the same thing if you run an oil and gas plant or a dairy, and we often experience people walking between these different industries. In other words, this sometimes reconstructed word shift around that we shouldn't do one thing because we're going to do something else, I believe in a way that's artificial, just because you have good skills and what you do within one discipline, of course, is not in the way that in many cases you can use it within another. So I want to remind the representative and the hall of what I think is going to be one of our big challenges in the future, and it's just that the big equation is going to go up. We have enormous ambitions both in industrial growth and value creation and also related to welfare and knowledge production. The children's pods are getting smaller in the future. The availability of foreign labour also seems to be getting smaller, and it brings me back to the beginning: I think we're going to run out of money for people in this country long before we run out of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2487	In the coming years, the Norwegian economy will undergo major changes, where the petroleum sector will gradually form an increasingly smaller part of the Norwegian economy and industrial structure and other industries will grow and have a greater role to play. Of course, what industries there are and what jobs are created are difficult to predict, but there is no doubt that McKinsey's report mentions several of the industries that will become important to Norway by 2030 and beyond. If we are to succeed in unlocking the potential of business, increased efforts in both research and education are crucial. That is why I would like to give tribute to the representative Vamraak for raising a very important topic in his interpellation, and I would also like to thank the Council of State for his good response. At the same time, it says that the biggest obstacle to change is not necessarily in research and higher education, but perhaps in professional, vocational and not least in getting investment in order to allow companies to develop, let new ideas be tested – and thus we can succeed in innovation. For Norwegian research environments, I already perceive as both forward-looking and ambitious, and some who contribute to the highest level of knowledge needed for the business life of the future. Publicly speaking, Norway has already become good at investing in research, relative to many other countries, with large transfers to both basic and applied research. So the research already exists to a large extent today. Knowledge is there to create the new industries for the future and to create the green jobs we depend on. That's also what McKinsey says in his report: already there's 85 pst technology. of all the cuts needed to get to net zero by 2050. The problem lies in the lack of active industrial and industrial policies over several years, which have made us little aware of the good research that has been carried out. The technology is there; now we need investment and competence in the workforce to put it into practice. Fortunately, we have finally received a government that pursues a more active industrial policy, which sets clear goals for social development and where we want to go with our country. Take the example of Forestia’s new effort on Braskereidfoss. There they have long had plans for a new factory for return. This is an excellent example of both the circular economy and continued investment in industry based on the renewable resources we have in Norway. In addition, those in which 100 new hurt jobs are required in a district municipality. So it's about a cheek egg of a project, and it's been pot-ready for years. The only thing that has been missing is that the state has also gone in with funds and invested. Now the government, with Minister of Industry Jan Christian Vestre at the head, is doing just that. This is a good example of active industrial policies in which political decisions contribute to the growth and development of a forward-looking industry. With regard to the competence of employees, our new government has also done a great deal of good that benefits local businesses throughout the country – among others. increased commitment to decentralised education centres, vocational schools and learning places and for the purpose of retraining and development of skills for those who want and need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2506	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an important question, and thank you to the Council of State for good and interesting thoughts. According to the report ‘Norway tomorrow’, to which the representative Vamraak refers in his interpellation, Norway can become the world’s leading country in sustainable high-quality tourism. They write, among other things, that ‘the time has come to industrialise Norwegian travel lives’. With about 10 pst. of the global gross domestic product before the pandemic, or about three times as much as for example: agriculture, tourism is really a global megatrend. At home in Norway, however, the industry is under the shadow of other natural resource-based industries and today is characterised by strong fragmentation and low margins. Sustainable development has been put on the agenda as one of the multidisciplinary themes of Norwegian school. It's a good starting point to build on. If, as a nation, we are to take advantage of the great opportunities offered by sustainable tourism and build a competitive tourism economy by 2030, we must treat tourism as strategically as other industries. It will require a strategic focus on education and innovation, strategic organisation and it is necessary to ensure that current conditions for SMEs continue and that these conditions develop in line with the needs of the future. A greener Norwegian travel life will be a prerequisite for sustainable growth and is a competitive advantage towards other countries. Norway’s ambition should be to become a priority country for green solutions and thus take the position as the world’s leading destination for sustainable tourism. Norway has a natural advantage that makes all-year tourism a strategically important effort across the country all of us in this room are so very happy. The question is then whether the will is there. Then there is an area where we have a lot to pick up, and there is cooperation with the EU and the EU research programme. We have paid the entrance ticket, but there is a need for willingness to bet over time to see results. Research and education cannot be governed by the choice cycle; long-term efforts are needed. The report 'Norway tomorrow' points out the direction of several interesting areas of activity in which Norway should be in close proximity. Close cooperation with the EU can be the trigger in several of these areas. We need to strengthen international and national research and innovation cooperation on the major societal challenges. Norway’s green and digital migration and sustainability programme must play with the objectives and instruments of the EU in Horizon Europe and with the key EU strategies available. The continuation of the ‘Green Platform’ will be a bet on how many can achieve good synergy with the European Green Deal. At the same time, we must take care of those parts of Norwegian business that are not covered by the EU's efforts. We solve the big challenges together, not each of us. As a nation, we have great opportunities and natural advantages. We have the greatest opportunities through close cooperation with our closest neighbours in the EU. It requires the continuation of the last few years. It will pay off for small and medium-sized enterprises across the country, it will pay off for Norway and the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2525	It should be a goal for all governments to provide better and more work-related education for all. Of course, it should be a goal for all governments to ensure that we have schools, vocational training and universities throughout the country. That's why I feel that the interpellation that comes from the Right today is fixing a lot that I think is obvious. One goal that we obviously need to work both more and harder to achieve is to get more jobs in the private sector that create both jobs and value creation across the country. In the government, in the Central Party and the Workers' Party, we know that if we are to develop strong communities, secure the development of businesses and good jobs across the country, yes, then we are dependent on strong vocational schools, vocational training, and universities everywhere where people live, throughout Norway. We know that this isn't just important for business. This is also important to ensure that young people enter local businesses. This is important for young people around the country to become residents so that the country is kept alive. It is also worth noting that the government, the Central Party and the Workers' Party have inherited a demanding employment curve from the right-hand government. I've taken the freedom to look at how things went with the employment in the private sector when the Right Directed. In fact, although the corona is kept out, the proportion employed in the public sector increased year after year, looking up to the private sector. We in the Center Party and the Workers' Party have a goal of creating more jobs in the private sector around, which leads both to value creation, which creates life and light in the houses and creates activity. We're going to do that, but then there's good education that's where both people and businesses are, part of the key. I am sure that the government will come back to Stortinget with a complete and good plan for this, as Ola mentioned. I hope that in that plan we can look at the needs of business, and that we can see the need for both continuing education and training as a whole – with a goal of building more jobs in the private sector, because here the government, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have a part to do after eight years of right-wing control.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2536	It is important to make posts, to say ‘state council’ or ‘man’ — even if you are good friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2541	It's late in the day, but we'll try to stick to the shapes that we can best. I would also like, on behalf of the Left, to thank the representative Vamraak for raising this question on an important topic and for the response from the Council of State. This McKinsey report is particularly interesting and should actually have our mandatory reading for all representatives in this Chamber, precisely because he is so concrete and breaking down what all of our political parties are about to bet on selected industries of the future, and what challenges it presents. Unfortunately, it's probably true, what the council says, that when we're going to work on triggering this potential, we're going to run out of money before we run out of money. I think it's a point formula, but it's a pretty correct description. We also need to remember that the ten industries that have been raised here are not the whole of Norwegian industry or the whole of the new business world. There are big, important industries that are not inside this picture, where we want it to work a lot. Agriculture is now a big topic. Health is another industry with enormous potential, which corresponds to much of the report. Our need for people will be difficult for years to come. The government has also isolated the right view that there are a lot of possibilities for using competences and skills across different sectors, but the challenge is that the sector we might talk about most and have moved activity away from is the petroleum industry, oil and gas, but it's not that we can pinch and now start moving a lot of labour into these new industries for the next one, two, three, four years. There will be full pressure in Norwegian petroleum industry and oil and gas industries for a few more years – in parallel to building up these new industries. That makes our challenges difficult. For this, a wide range of measures is required. I also look forward to the viewing message that is notified by the government. I think that's the right way to get hold of it from the Council of State. Targeted investment in education is important. I am pleased that the Council of State also stressed the importance of providing flexible decentralised education and further training throughout the country in higher education and vocational education. Continuous training and labour skills across the country in more flexible models are an important part of what we need to do. That's a lot we're in, and that's very wise. The representative, Vamraak, discussed several of the measures highlighted in the McKinsey report, but I want to highlight two specific challenges that I think we also need to bring with us, because we are forced to take all the instruments in order to be close to solving this challenge. One is that we will not need more jobs in the private sector; we need more people working in the private sector, while there is a great need for hands in the health and care professions, in education, in the growth sector and in the public sector. We're going to need so many people put in the right place that working on continuously streamlining the public sector is a responsibility we're forced to take. It's not popular to talk about. If there's one thing we don't need anymore, there are several county municipalities, to put it a little bit pointed. We are, in fact, forced to take seriously that we are forced to have an efficient, tight public sector where we have fewer possible hands away in unnecessary bureaucracy and free hands to care tasks in the public sector, but not least in the private sector. So the rationalization of the public sector is extremely important. Then there is another area that is highlighted in the McKinsey report, which the representative Vamraak Interestingly has not taken up, and that is that the report says that we have no way but to have a more offensive policy to attract specialized labour from abroad. That's what we need. We're not going to succeed in just re-training Norwegian labour, because we're going to need so much time. Nearly all other European countries are now setting strategies for how to become attractive countries to attract specialised labour in those industries where each nation has the potential and potential to develop and grow in the future. We must take this seriously in Norway. The left had a short time since a representative proposal that was just about that. There we did not get wide support from the right or the government party of the day to continue our work of attracting specialized labour. That theme will come back, and I hope it will also be part of the policy packages we are now going to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2562	First of all, I would also like to say that I think it is very good with this interpellation that the representative Vamraak has drawn up. I also thought that the Council of State has given good answers in a matter that may not be too much unpleasant about in the Chamber. In 2014, the structural reform came in the high school and university sectors. The aim was to get fewer and stronger institutions to strengthen the quality of higher education and research. In the West, the idea came up to collect the hayballs in a large western high school, and in January 2017, the hayballs in Haugesund, Stord, Bergen, Førde and Sogndal joined forces to form the new high school in the West. The WVL has become a major success for business and society in the West, it is close to the labour market and can offer relevant and up-to-date education in some of our most important professions in the education, engineering and health and social sectors. E.g. 400 engineers a year, making it the largest engineering training institution after NTNU. And it doesn't stop there, HVL is now working to become a professional and work-life-right university built on the five campuses they have in the West. McKinsey's report, which appeared recently, points to seven changes that need to be made in order for us to succeed by 2030 in creating more than 200,000 new jobs in the ten export-right industries. One of these changes is knowledge and competence, because, as they say, in developing the industries of the future, we also need the competence of the future. In this picture, a university or university based on high-quality vocational and work-life education would be very important. All of this also has a major added value, because through its decentralised and practical model, HVL – or the University of the West, which they will take as a name when it becomes a university – and similar educational institutions elsewhere in the country will largely also contribute to good regional development, not only because it will provide the public and business of the regions with good and relevant labour, but also because it will be positive for the population and the ageing process. As the demographic selection has pointed out, people who do well to study in the region that comes from will largely choose to stay in the region after even education. For the Right, education and competence have always been an important political theme. It will be in the future, too, because if we are to develop the industries of the future, we also need the competence of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2574	The purpose of our education offer is twofold. First of all, we will give children, young people and adults the tools they need to move on in life, and then we will ensure that both our business and the public sector have the skills they need in the future. It requires a commitment to both education and business development across the country that is broader and better than the previous government ever had. If we are to train the skills needed for the future working life, both education, further training and the conversion of skills must be made easier to implement, regardless of the situation of life or residence. In addition, this is what the representative and the inter-pellant also address: there are different needs in different regions. Therefore, the Hurdal Platform’s objective of a major effort in decentralised and flexible education is important in this work. In addition, the focus we are now looking at is on the study centre, because they are exactly what the interpellant addresses, namely education adapted to business and the different skills needs locally. The NHO also estimates that vocational education and training skills are becoming even more important to business in the years to come. The training of tomorrow's trade union workers starts early. Then our education life cannot just prepare the students for an academic career; we also need to recognise more fully practical skills early. That is why I am pleased that the government is clear that we are now going to implement a secondary school reform and recognise this early in the school cycle, which will also facilitate a greater professionalisation in the future. That we also strengthen the offers at the colleges becomes very important. The centre party has over time been involved in their role as an important educational actor and an important building block for our trade union workers. There we need more grips in the years to come. Overall, the needs of industry are central to all the decisions we take in education policy. That is why I am also pleased that the Council of State addresses the observation message, because it will be an important guide, and it will be an important framework for this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2587	I would like to thank you for your contributions to the debate. Governments have shown an understanding of the need for more profitable jobs in the industries mentioned here. Several speakers have called for the importance of individual industries, and the representative Grotle has highlighted the importance of having access to good training provision throughout the country, where jobs are located, while providing good quality training. I am pleased that the Council of State is inviting a debate on the labour demand through the observation message. In this work, it will be important to build on the principle of profitability and value creation, on which the Council of State was committed. There are many wishes in this room about jobs in different places, but with the shortage of labour that the Council of State has raised, we will have to ask ourselves one more time if we are going to afford to create jobs with lower value creation than what there is potential for. Competence is not the only factor that comes about if you want to succeed in creating new, profitable jobs. Governments pointed to the availability of electricity as a prerequisite for the power-intensive industry, such as battery production, and that is quite right. At the same time, for this particular industry, the need for other measures, such as: ‘single point of contact’ to attract foreign investors. It is an example of concrete measures that cost little and can provide Norway with better opportunities as a world-leading industrial nation. The representative Swelle tried to create a picture of low employment over time with the government of Solberg. I think, however, that Councillor Borten Moes' description is correct, that we are faster running out of money than we are running out of money. The representative, Bjørlo, took up the need to attract us specialist skills from abroad. It will be useful to look at how we can create a good system for accessing the skills we need to obtain from abroad. And greater in number: we need to make a smooth transition from the industries that provide labour to the industries that need labour. Some people can go straight from dairy to oil, as the Council of State was about to do, but for many others it will be necessary to get further and further training in order to get a job in a different industry, and we need competence at all levels, as the representative Grøthe was in. So I look forward to both the viewing message and further debates on the topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2600	Thank you for what I experience as a good and constructive word change around an important topic in this case and in this room. I have a few final comments. Let's just think about McKinsey and McKinsey first. It is a recognised financial consultancy company, but it is also a company that can sometimes actually be wrong, so using them as a fasitite I think we should be careful with. They include: on its ‘track record’ strategic advice for Norwegian Forest through the 1990s and 2000s. Those who have followed that company can make up their own opinions about how smart it was to sell everything except newspaper paper, just when the Internet took over the world. The point is that even though it was probably right and reasonable at the time, it happens that things are going to be different than what you'd have thought. Furthermore, I think that the figures referred to are also worth a reflection. 310 B.C.E. kr in what I understand is contributions to GDP, I do not read in any other way than a turnover. 310 B.C.E. NOK 210 000 employees are headcounted quickly, and then subject to my error, 1.5 million. kr per head. It's not a high number. On the contrary, in my view, it is a rather low number, which I am very questioning about whether we can put into a socio-economic account the needs we have to create values, to ensure a good welfare development for the population as a whole, and for the needs related to the financing of the public sector in particular. Finally, I Googled a little now and found out that in 2019, at least according to Nettavisen, in order to be embarrassingly accurate, the value creation or contribution to the Treasury was for each employee in oil and gas for a comparison of 21 million. kr. I'm going to assume that this year that number is considerably larger. I should not be surprised if it is close to a three-digit million. That means that if this room were to think that we do not at all allocate the social resources where they provide the best benefits at all times, in general, it means nothing but a loss of well-being for all of us, fewer opportunities to produce good welfare services for us who live here, less prosperity for the total population, and lower competitiveness for the country of origin. We have to be able to deal with these different considerations together. We have to do a green shift, but we also have to make money.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2611	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2627	Last year, the government of Solberg presented a big message on how to include more people in the world of work and society. It was a message that represented an overall policy to start the work on solving the problems we see is increasing, namely that more people do not find their place in working and social life. It was a big message that acknowledged and described the reasons why people are falling outside, and it provided concrete measures to counteract this development. The Government of Støre has withdrawn the message without any further justification or notice that something is coming. Over the last few years, we've seen more young people get into bad luck. The reasons for this are in part that many are becoming more quickly clarified, and in part that medical development has helped more people actually survive and live longer. But these are just parts of the explanation. What we see as a trend now is that many young people simply don't find their place in school or in work. They're struggling mentally, and they don't have the ability to get anywhere other than on the hub. Why does this happen? What causes more and more young people to become passive recipients of social benefits? This is one of many important questions we have to try to find answers and do something about. These kids don't belong on disability. The last thing they need is a state that is going to finance their alienation over the next 40 years. What young people need is a state which at the earliest makes it possible for them to get help through an adapted race that can help them to experience being useful to themselves and society. In addition to the number of young disabled people, we have almost 600 000 adults in Norway who lack secondary education. Business calls for labour, but there are too few people with the right skills to take these jobs. The key in the future will be to ensure that those who are going to work have the skills needed to get a job, if not just an outside job. These issues are big, and they have extremely complex solutions, which means that several agencies need to talk. This attempted to address the Solberg government's big message. Outreach is often the result of health problems in combination with lack of schooling. The Storting Message proposed, among other things: that Nav, the secondary schools and the Health Directorate should cooperate better and test new methods for this. Schools, health and Nav should in no way sit on each other when there are complex issues to be faced. It was also proposed to strengthen the diversity of labour market measures and to allow more small social entrepreneurs to try out. We are totally dependent on a varied offer to the individual since the reasons for exclusion are so incredibly different among people. The earlier you start with the help and follow-up of someone who has fallen outside, the better it is. That is why we also suggested that Nav and the Education Directorate set up a trial project to pick up those who drop out of higher education as early as possible and before they end up on Nav. Individual job support for young people was also reinforced. This action will provide a tailor-made job-oriented follow-up to young people who are struggling with alcohol and mental illness. You get close follow-up from both a psychologist and a job specialist from Nav. Almost 20 pst. of all Nordics aged between 18 and 66, a health-related benefit is received in this country. This is an important reason why many people are not at work. The civil government proposed to make it easier to combine jobs and benefits. Then you work as much as your health allows, and the rest is compensated by Nav. Employers are given access to more labour and their income and costs are increased. The measures proposed by the previous government have now been withdrawn. The first 100 days of the government have not been about meeting the challenges that are real in labour policy. The government has neither announced a new big message nor had an outpost on the agenda. It's time to resume the inclusion work that the previous government started with, and solve the most real problems we're facing as a society. This takes a long time, so the work must not stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2648	The representative raises a wide-ranging issue that cannot solve one level alone. Therefore, the government is working along many tracks and under the responsibilities of different departments. The Ministry of Knowledge will take action to help provide more people with the opportunity to complete vocational training in the labour market. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will prepare a new escalation plan for mental health. These are examples of measures that will support the work of including more people in the labour market. However, in my reply, I would like to focus first and foremost on actions that fall within the remit of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Working for everyone in an inclusive working life is a main task for the government. This permeates everything we do in the field of working life – from working with an orderly working life to developing better services for those who need help to get into work. This is a very important work. At the same time, it is important to balance differences in living conditions, to ensure social mobility and to prevent child poverty. I share the interpellant's concern about the growth in the number of recipients of disability benefits, not least the growth that has been among young people. It's now two years since the Coronapandemy gave us the highest post-war unemployment. After a solid development, unemployment is now lower than in many years. But at the same time, there have been many who have gone for long periods without work in the last two years, and there is still a group that strives to get into work. These are going to get the support they need to get to work. The government wants to pursue an active and inclusive labour market policy. In the Hurdal Platform, we present a series of measures to enable everyone who wants to and can work. As the interpellant points out, many of the long-term unemployed do not have the skills requested by employers. The need for competence in the health and care sector is increasing. At the same time, unmet needs exist in parts of business. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare, the Directorate of Higher Education and Skills and the Directorate of Integration and Diversity cooperate in the development of effective and good education and training services for unemployed, permissive and vulnerable groups on the labour market. Many young people in need of Nav’s assistance have little work experience and poor qualifications. Some also have health problems, especially mental disorders. The government will prevent young and young adults from falling outside school and work by ensuring better coordination of health services, Nav and the education system. The government wants to introduce a new and improved youth guarantee to give more young people a chance in working life. Young people under the age of 30 who need help to get to work will quickly be offered close and good follow-up from Nav. The government will also strengthen Nav. In order to assist those who do not come to work on their own, it is important to have a strong hub that can provide closer follow-up of users and adapt the offer in the best possible way. We want to implement a trust reform in Nav. As an employee, you should feel that you have participation and influence over the working day. It is important to ensure that those who can only work a little, also have an opportunity to participate in the labour market. We will introduce an activity reform to help new beneficiaries of redundancy payments and disability benefits get better opportunities to combine social security and work. The aim of these measures is to reverse developments that have been taking place for many years. Government ambitions are high in creating a more inclusive working life. In many areas of intervention, we are already in the process, and more will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2665	Let me thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very reassuring to hear that we share the same concerns about outsiders in young people. But I also get a little disappointed when I hear the Council of State, because there are a lot of issues here that we fully agree with, but I can't see that there is any overall strategy or plan promised to tackle the huge task this is after all. Several of the measures contained in the previous Storing Communication that were withdrawn are also mentioned in the Hurdal Platform. This applies, for example: improving coordination between the agencies and facilitating the combination of social security and work. What is the status of this today? Will anything come soon? The Hurdal platform also mentions the need for Nav to conduct out-of-work outreach activities for young people under 30 years of age. That's very good, but what does this really mean? Does the government have a plan for organising and designing this outreach activity in practice? Those of us who have followed the government's employment policy in the last few months, see what the priorities have been. Unfortunately, there is currently little track to track when it comes to inclusion. Today's working life policy is primarily about giving trade unions legal rights on behalf of workers who have not agreed to it. It is about putting in place quite austerity and bans on hired labour. It's about limiting access to temporary employment, even though we haven't seen any increase in its use, and it's also about legislating the right to full time, something like that. KS says it has no documented effect. In other words, this labour policy is about finding new and controversial solutions that are out of proportion to the problems we are trying to solve. The real problems are that the number of young people is historically high, and it is not yet affected by the government’s work. It is urgent to deliver policies in this area, and the previous government provided a 160-page pale with policies, which are now in a state of disappointment. So then it's just to expect that the government is starting to deal with the issue, so that we get started with an important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2678	I have to say that I am a little surprised at the interpellant's starting point that you are not doing any work. I believe that representatives in this room might then talk a little to their own knowledge, because there is a broad work associated with getting more young people to work. Then it is clear that there is a concern that we share in this debate, namely that there is a record high number of young people who have become disabled – and that figure doubled on the guard of the previous government – and that is serious. We have to do something about it. The Hurdal Declaration makes it clear that more young people will have a chance in their working life, and it is important to get young people who are currently receiving passive social security benefits into activities where possible. That is why we will introduce an activity reform to help new beneficiaries of redundancy benefits and disability benefits get better opportunities to combine social security and work, and it is important to ensure that those who can only work a little also have an opportunity to participate in the labour market. But then I also want to come up with a little reflection. When you talk about this extravagance, which has been mentioned several times on the interpellant side, we're really talking about a very complex group of very complex issues. There's this government, for example. enhanced the effort related to permanent work, which concerns part of those we are talking about. We have also wanted, not least, to work on better interaction, where the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, the Directorate of Higher Education and Competence and the Directorate of Integration and Diversity work on a joint mission, with the aim of developing both effective and good education and training services for unemployed, outsourced and vulnerable groups on the labour market. When we talk about these being young people, we also stress that more people should be able to complete vocational and vocational training. Then this is closely linked to the serious nature of work. That's one of the main reasons why we want to tighten up the fight against social dumping: just to make it attractive for young people to bet on vocational training and participation in their professional life, and to experience it as a good experience. So I think it's important here that we have adapted education and training services, where we have models that take into account that many of these young people need close and good follow-up, and that on the way they get guidance from a strengthened Nav service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2691	The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has already provided a lot of good policies in the field of working life, and it has been expected from the voters. The whole thing is that it's called work and inclusion, because it's so close, and it says a lot about the will that's there. In Hallingdal we have several good examples of how business operators and volunteers have become important partners for Nav and for the public service by including more and helping people outside the workplace for different reasons into a new start. Skugum cutlery factory at the Geilo is one of those who really liked thinking outside the box. They have long practiced inclusion in working life with good results for each employee, and they have a good economic surplus. In Skaugum, those who have been outside the labour market participated in the production via Nav's support, and after that, most of them go to ordinary work. The goal is to recruit people who the leader describes as mentally tired, who are lost for self-confidence, or who lack faith in their own work skills. In Skaugum they build self-knowledge with love, patience and understanding, and they adapt the requirements of each. Another example is TID café at Ål, which is also a foundation. They combine regular café operations with language training and work training. This is also an example of cooperation in which the café provides both employment training for young adults who have been outside the labour market for various reasons, and for refugees and others who need language training and cultural understanding to understand the codes in Norwegian working life. The reason why the TID Foundation is successful is about human vision – that everyone is met as equals, with needs and with abilities. The most important reason why so many individuals who for different reasons have known outsiders, nevertheless – and for some finally – are happy when they come in the doors there, is about quick clarifications and the implementation of measures, and, of course, what it means to be seen as the one person, with confidence, respect, security and not least trust in what is in the individual. But of course it's a 'but', and so I take the word when the Council of State is present. For such schemes today, only three months are allowed before one has to clarify the status and the further fate of the employee. It's too short a time, for it takes time to build trust. Not knowing if a person is allowed to stay or be dumped is understandable enough to be very stressful and leads to concern for the road further when a backpack is praying, is heavy enough already. This target group needs more time and patience than others to know that one is safe, but it is worth it, because eventually most people have enough faith in a future in the world of work. But one needs more time for clarification than what the legislation opens up today. Today's bureaucracy is based on heavy legislation. It's not forward-looking, because there's a reporting requirement, and there's a conversation before one -- if one's lucky -- gets the chance to get into work. Waiting for months to get a meaningful job and an income is not forward-looking. We need to avoid people with job skills and aspirations having contact with Nav for many months without them coming out into practice. The quickest way to get into activity is to be able to help and feel that one is worth something, that one means something to the community. When quality of life is high and mental health is good, we prevent outreach and at the same time are socio-economic wise in both the short and the long term. Our country needs all the work capacity and the workforce that exists at each and every one of us. There are many with me who are positively impatient after changing the legislation to include more in meaningful work, because it pays off for the individual and for society. I am sure that the government will do its job to find the right solutions to the regulatory action space, because in the chapter of the Hurdal Platform "Work for All in an Inclusive Work Life" they confirm that. On the tap, I would like to remind the Council of State of the invitation from Buskerud Arbedarparti and LO to a company visit in Hallingdal. I hope she takes the turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2708	I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic, because there are too many ways out of work, and there are unfortunately too few ways in. The right should therefore continue to work to create new ways of entering the labour market. On the right, we laid a good foundation when we were in government, through inclusion and how we reformed the area of integration. Furthermore, we introduced activity requirements for young social assistance recipients and presented the ‘Reform of Competence — Learn Your Life’, Report. Paragraph 14 for 2019-2020. We also started work on the completion reform — a historic extension of the right to complete secondary education. A diploma or a diploma in the hand is the entrance ticket itself for work, income and security. We need to help even more of the kids to master the school. At the same time, we need to build up offers for adults who need to qualify for the vacancies. Further progress is not well adapted today to the adults who have jobs, family and housing loans. A right to complete will only be a right to the paper if we don't make sure that the system is better adapted. At Åkrehamn high school you can apply on a Thursday and start on Monday. They tailor a scheme that allows individuals to complete higher education in their own way. This is the school of the future. Right did several important steps in government. Youth action has been and is important, how early follow-up is central. Furthermore, individual job support has proved to be a good measure. That's also why we extended this. Unfortunately, we now see that the government is closing the door to the labour market by going to the fight against the manning industry. It's an industry that every day makes sure people get a foot within. At Nortura they have cooperated with Manpower to train carnivores. They have divided the operation into 16 sections and found out that they start training in four areas at a time with different people, with the aim of completing the letter. There is no doubt that we need Norwegian carnivores. In Rogaland, there's no one, as far as I know. Last summer, Manpower had a collaboration with ASKO, where several got the certificate and a summer job. After the summer Manpower had important competence to serve the labour market with, in an industry screaming for people. There were also several people who had got a foot within. This is part of the manning industry that we unfortunately never read about in the newspapers, but we have to give room for actors like Manpower and not limit them when they can be with us. After all, the government’s announcement of a bid highlighted the need to facilitate the participation of social entrepreneurs and non-profit-making enterprises in labour market measures. Many Nav employees I've talked to say that they find good solutions for the individual in everyday life, but they lack the support of us that it's okay. Then we have to give them the space for action and incentives to innovate and give Nav the back coverage they need, because Nav shouldn't do everything alone. They must be able to cooperate with actors who will contribute, even when they are private, because we need to think new things to get social innovation. In the municipality of Asker, they view well-being as an investment, not an expense, and give exposed persons total assistance over a longer period of time. A boy experienced that he was selected for the first time on the football team. A father got faster and better help while not getting away from the job repeatedly to attend all the meetings. This is the welfare society of the future, and this is something we want more of, because if the public sector is to be dimensioned in providing good services and the necessary help to its citizens, we must allow private actors to contribute. If we're going to build a run around the individual, the state can't point out a provider. We need social innovation, and we need interaction to succeed in inclusion. We also have to settle with our prejudices if we're to succeed. I tend to say a little ghostly that the inclusion clause is primarily about you accepting that as a woman I participate in the working life, without being accused of self-realizing and neglecting the kids. After all, I have chosen to get them myself, I hear. Others get questions about what's wrong with them. Nobody asks them what they need. We're still forgetting that what's blocking you isn't defining you. WHOLE social innovation has led to even more participation. Many of them were put away and forgotten by society. Now both they and the families have got a new day of work. A job means a lot. It is gratifying that a majority in the Grand Duchy is now asking the government to ensure a better follow-up of those who are in permanent work, just after the model of HELT MED. Here, too, the government parties were against it. They thought the system was good enough as it is today. Right should always challenge the system if it doesn't have the individual person in the center. If we can't interact better, we're missing out on important resources in society, and we're also becoming a poorer society. Because diversity pays off, but then everyone has to contribute, even in inclusion. Then we create several ways into the world of work. I wish we could spend more time in the future debate – on how we can make all the good contributions – instead of limiting those who are already contributing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2735	The left will also thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic. For us in the Left, the starting point is that although welfare schemes contribute to securing income, it does not solve the poverty challenges. Neither does it promise man out of poverty. We know that income from work is the main source of income for most households. We in the Left believe that people want to succeed in their own lives, and the most important thing we can do is to pursue a policy that gives the most opportunity to do just that. The left, in cooperation with the other government parties in the government of Solberg, has had an eight-year commitment to include more people in the labour market. We've been lucky to ask you why so many people are outside. We've made extensive changes to make sure that more people complete high school because we know it works. We have changed the introduction system so that more people can use their resources and get an offer adapted to their own goals and background. We put forward our own strategy to increase the quality of Nav's supply to jobseekers who need to qualify, because it is important that we not only increase the number of job vacancies but that we also have diversity and quality of services. The left in government has strengthened cooperation between Nav and employers through both the market work in Nav and increased use of wage subsidies and inclusion grants, in order to take the risk together with employers and wage-earners who appoint non-employed persons. Not least, we have repeatedly called on the public sector to have objectives of being inclusive employers, because we know it is important that those with gaps in the CVs also have a chance in the workplace. These are examples of several important steps taken to give people opportunities. We need this more of the time that comes, not less. We in the Left have as our primary objective to ensure that as many as possible are able to realise their potential and live free lives. The interpellant asks the government what alternative plan the government actually has to include more people in the world of work. It is timely, as the message pointed out that too many people are not allowed to participate in the labour market. We also ask ourselves questions about the reason for drawing the exit message. This Communication was presented in order to have a comprehensive policy and to include more people in working and social life. The notification describes the reasons why people fall outside, and the relevant measures to counter this. What makes you think it's a good idea to withdraw it? The outreach message had a complete look at what it is that creates outreach, and who is in the risk zone. How to ensure better cooperation between health, education and work? How are you going to make it more attractive to hire people with special challenges, just to make sure that more people get the opportunity to use their resources and live good, free lives on their own premises? We know that the pandemic has hit those who have the least, the hardest. The Committee Survey on Life Years in Cities is concerned about the long-term impact that the crisis will have on living conditions and segregation. There is a danger that the crisis will intensify disparities in the long term. The sample has concluded that adverse effects under the pandemic are greatest in those living in life-threatening areas. This is the time to do more and not less. It's time to think new and not continue in the same race. So someone's going to need more help than anyone else in the future. Therefore, we must be willing to target those with the greatest needs. We in the Left are concerned that we do, although that means that we cannot always implement expensive universal arrangements, which are less accurate. If we're going to fight differences, it means giving people the opportunity to live an equivalent life, and sometimes targeting our distribution policy. The measures described in this Communication had been a continuation of the years-long effort we have had to provide a more inclusive society. The fact that you do not choose to continue this is a big step in the wrong direction, and we believe the government is failing those who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2758	Thanks to the interpellant for traveling a very important theme. One time a wise lady said to me: Just because you can't work right now, you're no less valuable as a human being. I remember myself quite often, that I've been there, familiar with the feeling, and I remember very well how much those words meant to me. Because I've learned what it's like to be out of work. I felt so sick from one day to another that I could not go to work. I remember the date I closed the door for the last time and did not come back, it was 13 October 2004. Then came the feeling of emptiness and the question of ‘who am I really’ when the phone suddenly doesn’t call anymore. Losing the community and place of work did something to me. But it's also given me valuable experience, and it's an experience I want to use in politics. As politicians and as a society, we have a big task. We're going to make sure that anyone who wants and can, knows the feeling of participating in the community, of having something to go to, of being useful and of society needing you. There are many ways out of work and too few ways in. We have to make sure that there is an entrance for everyone. Many, and many more than we know, have quite twisted career paths. That means that things can take time, and that you have to go in between. As a society, we have to make sure that is possible without losing our place. The most important thing is to ensure that young people outside the labour market get into the community. It is good health in good community, and it is early effort to ensure that young people complete high school and come out in education, work or further studies. As a society, we can't afford to say that no one is needed, and that there's no need for you. All people have a self-esteem, but not all career paths are a four-field highway in the future. That's why we in the Right believe that we need to use all the good forces in our work to create an inclusive and sustainable society. We want social innovation, and we think we get it by letting go to social entrepreneurs and private initiatives. Nav can't handle the social mission alone. Then it is our job to make sure that Nav gets the back coverage they need to cooperate with those who are ready to contribute. It is our duty to provide for a society in which the door is always open to all, whether it is work or education. The government understood Solberg and therefore presented the communication on exclusion: None outside – a comprehensive policy to include more people in working and social life. This Communication contains a number of concrete measures that would make more people aware of the Community's feeling and the ability to contribute to society. I hope the government will look at this big message when they're going to develop policies for this very important area. There is a shortage of workers throughout the country and in many industries. As a society, we can't afford people who can and will work outside. Then we have to use all the good forces and make sure that the openings into work and into school are many, rather than making the road as narrow as possible. I must be allowed to express a great concern. The Council of State says that this group is complex. Yes, and that's exactly why I want to refer to the Westfors story from Ål, about how those who open up opportunities. Letting everyone who can and will contribute to the virtue that it is – because it is, it is a virtue we as a society have to take – is so important. If you close all the individuals in the group that's outside, that's just as complex as the group that's inside, through the same system, and if you put the whole load on Nav, I think we've lost something important on the road -- we've lost the opportunity for a lot of good ideas, many initiatives and a lot of experience. I have so intimate faith that when those who take hold of the boy or the girl who is outside, and lift them into a box, we take care of him, and then we as a society have earned so much. That is why the government cannot afford to ignore the announcement by the government of Solberg, which provided for a comprehensive policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2779	The interpellant addresses a theme that is a huge challenge for the whole country. At the same time, I believe it is important to recognise that there are areas in the country where the problem of exclusion is more widespread than others. Earlier this week we could read about the municipalities of Eastfold which unfortunately have to spend much more money on social expenditure than the average in the country. Of course, we're going to make sure that everyone who lives in Norway has a decent life, but that's not what we want to spend the money on. Nor should there be a political urination contest to give even more money to direct benefits or framework transfers to municipalities. That's what I almost feel the government is now adding up, and at least did in the election campaign ahead of this big shot. Now, when the government is going to review the income systems of the municipalities, so that Eastfold is going to flood with milk and honey, it's awfully boring if all the tens of millions we're going to get are going to have to secure the livelihood of people. It'll be quick if the trend we see now continues. We can't buy ourselves out of this problem. It is therefore a bit encouraging to see that the government is slowing down the work that was being done on precisely the reasons for the alienation. These are as well-known many and complex. The great Norwegian social dictator, Levi Henriksen, says, "We never get on TV, except when we're the worst in testing." When the public health profile of the municipalities ticks in each year, Eastfold comes back on TV, year after year. Recently, the public health barometer has been discussed in municipal governments throughout the country, and in Eastfold, unfortunately, there are still many red dots. External relations, which is the theme of this debate, are almost antonymous to public health. The heritage of the industrial community is proud, but it can also be difficult to bear. It is not like that in 2022 that the relatives follow the lineage of the relatives through the factory doors. Before that, if you were willing to get sweaty in your forehead and dirty on your fists, you got a job. I wish it was still like that, but it's not like that. Today, we see a clear mismatch between people's skills and business needs. There is a lot of exciting happening with new start-ups and high-tech companies that gather around the well-established clusters of competences we have in Eastfold and many other places in the country. The first week in May is for example: the municipalities I know best, Halden, host for AI+. It is a world-leading conference of artificial intelligence and how to use artificial intelligence to create a better life for ordinary people. It should also be very nice to welcome the Prime Minister to Halden, even if it is on screen. All this positive happens at the same time as we have a lower level of employment and people who don't find jobs that match their skills. Then I believe that the job in the future must be to provide people with the skills they need to fit into a state-of-the-art working life, and not create jobs that are tailored to the skills we have today. For the world, development is much faster than policy. I'd like to add that this job starts in safe families that master their everyday life, a modern and flexible education system and a policy that allows people to learn their whole lives. I am counting on the Council of State in the wake of this debate to be convinced that the government should start work on an overall plan for how to solve this wave of society. Then I think it's a good idea to look at the districts where it's most likely to reverse the trend with increasing expenditure on social costs. Then Eastfold is a clever place to begin. It is also possible to get on TV because you can suddenly run with the rest of the field. We must ensure that Eastfold creates that heading as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2808	Have they seen the new movie on Netflix called Don’t Look Up? It's a classic scenario where a meteor comes down to Earth, with Leonardo DiCaprio in the lead. When I saw that film and saw all the people who panic and can't do the everyday jobs they would otherwise do, because the comet comes falling down on them, it strikes me that a little bit like that, too, is for many of those who fall out of work. How can you manage to plan a future when you don't think there's a future to plan for? This is the reality of many of the old and young people who fall out of work. It is true that the reasons are many and composite, not least for the young, but I would say that one of the reasons is Right. There's been a doubling of young deputies on the Right Guard. The government party at the time, on the blue side, chose to do to solve the problem, was to cut people out of work clearance and send them straight in a guy's wound. I don't expect everyone to be aware of what it means, but that means that instead of getting things settled and getting a safe way out into work or a health clearance, one will then be thrown into economic social assistance, being forced to sell houses and homes, cars and whatever one might have of valuables. I met one who was forced to spend up the confirmation money on his son before she could get any help at all. There's no way back, either to society or to work. Yesterday I had an incredibly nice meeting across both trust leaders of Nav and common people who have been or are in the Nav system as users. What is clear feedback is that all the years that have been now, with me to cut the operating budget and ABE-cut, have done something about the preparedness. I'm not talking about the military and that kind of preparedness, but something as close and fundamental as the social readiness of people who need help on our safety net in Nav. It's a concern that's known to both the adjoining and ordinary people. We are now replacing the ABE reform with a trust reform, where instead of asking the boss how much he can save, they are asking what he needs to do to make the job the best possible. Those are the ones we have to listen to. It is quite right that there are many measures that have been taken and that they know works if they only get the ability to implement them. I recently talked to a person who had worked in Nav who had got one in his office who said: I don't know if I'm ever going to get back to work, but if I'm only allowed to try myself as a truck driver, I think it might be possible. He who works in Nav said, "I'm not allowed to get you a driver's card, but you know what?" Let's do it again. He did it, and the one who came in is still truck driver. Unfortunately, that very matter came out for revision and control, and there was a little talk to this flexible Nav worker. What we have to do is make sure that all the good measures are brought to fruition, that they are added to Nav, that they are given the confidence to do their job, and that all those who once in life need help in the Nav system, also feel that they are met by a system that has confidence in them. We can do this by combining statements with both education and working life. We can think of something new. When the meteor goes over one, it's not good to plan for the future, but with the work we intend to do, with both youth guarantee and trust reform, we're going to do and make it possible. We're going to do that with both the added ones and the ones that need help in the Nav system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2827	It can never be stressed enough: working for more is our most important job. That is why I am very pleased with our recent decision in Stortinget on the closer and lasting follow-up of several people with disabilities, who will try themselves in the ordinary working life. It will mean a great difference in the lives of many. But there are still hundreds of thousands outside, knocking on and wanting to contribute. That's why we need to take more action. The inclusion buffer must be back on track. On the Right Guard, social sustainability and inclusion were an important priority, and last year we presented the Communication of Exclusion, with many concrete actions. The aim was to contribute to an increased diversity of offers and measures for those outside the EU. Then the Workers' Party and the Center's party joined the government and withdrew – not only the message, but also the measures. It was obvious that now you would rather spend the large amount of money to reverse. The fight against serious enterprises that help people in work, and symbolism policies have become more important than providing measures for the many outsiders. Obviously, this was reflected in the budget, with several unsocial cuts designed for those who work hard to establish a relationship with the labour market: One slowed down the efforts on the interpreting service, where Nav only last year lacked interpreters in 5,300 assignments, and as we know, it is vital for many to be able to work. The experiment was dropped, which would help to ensure that several Nav users have completed advanced training and get to work. They cut the availability of debt advice for those who want to fix the economy, the concerns and life and get a job. The new government has got a slow start on its efforts for those outside, but we're going to be positive, and we're going to look ahead. I hope this debate can be the start-up shot, where the government really floats the engine on and launches new measures. Now we're about to have a new opportunity for Stortinget. From the right, we have presented our own proposal for a representative on social entrepreneurship, which follows the message of exclusion – and which we hope the government parties will meet with an open mind. If we are to contribute to getting more people in work and activity, we need to think more of tailoring that suits the individual's needs, rather than group thinking and A4 solutions. Then we need non-governmental organisations and social entrepreneurs who can be involved and contribute and attract the burden. The right looks forward to the job further, so that together we can achieve our common goal that no one should be left standing. Working for more is our most important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2856	Then I would like to take the opportunity to thank everyone, including the Council of State and good colleagues among the representatives, for a good debate. I note that the representative Vereide says that the government has replaced the ABE reform with a trust reform, but I might remind the representative that the ABE reform is at its best. The most important thing we can do is to solve small problems before they grow much bigger, and we have to do what is necessary to avoid young people ending up disapproving when they could actually get help. The right will very much help to discuss new measures that may help stop this development. For example, we can think again about the follow-up of young people. Usually you are left to yourself when you reach disability status. Perhaps the authorities should have a much greater follow-up duty after a certain period of time? Maybe we should also see if it's going to be access to getting disability benefits at a young age at all, unless it's not quite obvious that you're going to have it? We should also look at whether health-adjusted wages can be a way of getting more disadvantaged people into part-time work. Today, too few have graduated from disability. It's about the expected delivery of 100 pst. the hours you are obliged to work. Perhaps you should be paid for how productive you are, and then the threshold for combining work and social security is lower. The inclusion virtue, which the bourgeois government started, was one of our most important projects, and much was done in eight years. We increased the use of wage subsidies, so companies took more people with holes in the CV. We put over 2,700 more VTA places in place. We allocated money to 7 000 more action places last year, where young people were to be a priority group. Politically, this may sound like numbers, but in practice this is people. There are 2,700 more VTA places and 2,700 more people who are included in the working life and who were previously outside. I hope this debate may have been a contribution to putting the issue of exclusion on the agenda, and that it will now be a much more priority area for the government in the future. But that's what I'm saying, thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2867	I would also like to thank you for an inter-pelling debate that addresses important issues in our welfare community. I share the concerns of the inter-pellant and many of the representatives who have spoken, of some of the developments we have seen over the last few years, among others. an increase in the number of young unemployed persons. At the same time, there are challenges that I would like to address quickly, both in my own sector and in cooperation with others. So I think we're pretty much in agreement about a lot, and I'd like to be a little bit out of touch and not take away anything that you've actually done with. There it was from the interpellant's side now rammed up some reinforcements that I think are good. So I would point out that this government has followed up part of it with further reinforcements, for example. in VTA places and in something else that I think is very important, namely strengthening labour market measures, which are precisely about being able to provide skills and opportunities for those outside the labour market. We agree that our country must make use of its resources, and that also applies to the labour force: more people must have the opportunity to work. That's why I'm also happy to represent a party that says that work for everyone is job number one, not just giving work to more people. Whereas it is necessary for the Community to adopt active measures to help people at work; As my introduction shows, the government has put forward a wide range of concrete and powerful measures to help ensure that more people can be included in the working life. It is particularly important for young people not to be pushed out of the labour market but to receive the support they need to get to work. Young people have the potential to have a long working life ahead of them, so the loss is great both for individuals — who have also been highlighted in this debate — and for society if people from a young age are already out of work. Therefore, it is worrying that the previous government weakened Nav every year in the budgets. We strengthen Nav to provide the follow-up they need. People with disabilities and health challenges shall meet a working life that includes and provides the necessary organisation. Immigrants and refugees shall contribute their resources, and it shall now also facilitate the participation of displaced persons from Ukraine in work and activity as soon as possible. This will take place in close cooperation between municipalities, the Employment and Welfare Act and the social partners. It is deeply worrying that a large proportion of working age are out of the labour market for reasons of competence or health. This is a major common challenge that requires us to develop, in the future, good tools and measures that can address the overall need for assistance of individuals. The Government will come back to the Stortinget with concrete proposals in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-26.ana.ud367e2882	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over. The map for the day is finished. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It's not set, and the meeting has been cancelled.
