ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e27	Honourable co-representatives! Former depositor Leif Frode Onarheim passed away on 9 September last year, 87 years old. We have lost a citizen of society of rare marks, always constructive and with extraordinary ability to cooperate. Trained as a civil economist, Onarheim had a successful and comprehensive career in Norwegian business. He was, among other things, Group leader of Nora Industrier, president of the Norwegian Association of Industry and Chairman of Orkla. During the period 1993-1997, Onarheim was the head of the BI School of Business. He was also the chairman of Aschehoug, Netcom and Narvesen, as well as the group leader of Marine Harvest. In the NHO, he was president from 1996 to 2000. Onarheim was early in lifting corporate social responsibility. The exposure did not end at retirement age. At the age of 67, Onarheim made himself available to the Right and was elected as the depositor of Akershus in the period 2001-2005. With his background from business, it was natural for him at Stortinget to engage in issues related to the business environment and the need for secure access to energy. In addition to being a member of the Energy and Environment Committee, he was an alternate member of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. With his whiny manner of being and the ability to talk to everyone he quickly won friends across traditional partisan lines. Younger co-representatives he describes as an important mentor, knowledgeable and always kind and listening. After the time at Stortinget, Onarheim was in Asker's municipal administration from 2007, and in the period 2015–2019 he was the municipality's vice-president. His efforts over the years were recognised in several ways. Already in 1986 he was appointed Knight of the 1st class of the Order of St. Olav. That same year, the magazine Farmand Onarheim proclaimed as the year’s leader. In 2008 he was awarded the Daily Food Prize and in 2013 the local Asker Laden prize for his great efforts for business and social life in the home municipality. We are at peace with Leif Frode Onarheim's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e52	The representatives Anja Ninasdotter Abusland, Eigil Knutsen and Roy Steffensen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Hordaland: Sara Bell For Rogaland: Emma Watne For South Throne Team: Steinar Krogstad An application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Marius Arion Nilsen is submitted from 20 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara Representative Andreas Arff is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e101	Andreas Arff is here and wants to take a seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 12 April 2022, concerning changes in the composition of the government and changes among the State Secretaries: ‘The Council of State was held at the Royal Palace on 12 April 2022 at 2.30 p.m. 1400 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Government council Odd Roger Enoksen is pardoned. Councillor Bjørn Arild Gram takes over the board of the Ministry of Defence. Mr Sigbjørn Gülsvik is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Administrative Board of the Ministry of Local and District Affairs. State Secretary Bent-Joacim Bentzen is hereby dismissed from office as State Secretary for State Council Odd Roger Enoxen and re-appointed State Secretary for State Council Bjørn Arild Gram in the Ministry of Defence. State Secretarys Ole Gustav Narud, Gunn Karin Gjul, Nancy Charlotte Porsanger Anti and Kjersti Bjørnstad are hereby dismissed from office as State Secretary to the Council of State Bjørn Arild Gram and re-appointed State Secretary to the Council of State Sigbjørn Gjelsvik in the Ministry of Municipal and District Affairs. The amendments shall take effect from 12 April 2022 at the latest. 14.00.’» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first deputy of Akershus, Kari Mette Prestrud, has taken the seat as a representative of the time the representative Sigbjørn Gælsvik is a member of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e146	On Wednesday 13 April, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e155	There are many positive signs in the Norwegian economy at present in terms of high growth in employment and in terms of many enterprises that demand a lot of labour. But there are also some clouds in the horizon. We have a higher price increase than we've had in the past, and we have a higher price increase in the rest of the world than we've had in the past. We have a lack of goods that don't come in, there are supply lines that don't work. And both the increased inflation and the increased use of money we have can help increase interest rates more than would be natural. Most of us know that interest rates are going to rise because we've had an exceptionally low interest rate through a pandemic, but the speed of how much it goes up is also going to be determined by domestic questions – how we handle our budgets and our economy in the future. Increasing interest rates in Norway means a significant redistribution and a more difficult economic situation for young people in the start-up phase, persons who may have entered the housing market for the first time. One percentage point increase on a $3 million loan. So NOK 30 000 more every year – an increase that is significant for the family economy for many. There's a danger that we're going into an overheating of the Norwegian economy, further interest rate increases can feel like this, and the families are going to notice it. Then it is important that we conduct a budgetary policy that keeps up the pressure in the economy. That is why it was amazing that we had an allocation proposal without any impact just before Easter. Even more astonishing was that the government seemed to want a good deal, along with all the parties, to pay up the appropriations. Right chose to say that now we have to give priority to family interest expenditure. We are going to say yes to cover the expenses, but we must not increase any more and therefore gave the government an offer. [[President knocks]] We vote in favour of...
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e166	I want to raise my eyes and say that we have been through three serious crises in the last six months: we have had the pandemic coming back, and strong measures were needed. We've had an energy crisis, as this government got in hand, and as the previous government hadn't done anything about action, and it hit the economy of many families. And we have a war in Ukraine. It is worth remembering that the Norwegian economy has managed well until now through this crisis. We're going to follow up on the crisis signs, but I want to say that we're recording that 70,000 more people are expected to come to work this year compared to last year. We have the number of registered unemployed down to 1.9 pst. in March – adjusted for normal variation. It is the lowest level since before 2008. We have strong economic growth. It's inflation, and it's lower than it's a country outside. It is estimated that the Nordics will be able to look forward to a normal good year compared to other countries. We have carried out a wage settlement in line with the best Norwegian traditions. It is very important for the stability of the Norwegian economy that we have a front-line model and parties that take responsibility. I mention this because this is important for the framework of the Norwegian economy. So then we have extraordinary situations that have made it necessary to take action from the government. We have a power support system, which is designed to make it possible to relieve the burden on households. High electricity prices attract purchasing power from households. We're helping to take some of that bill. We have strengthened the defence in the meeting with Russia's changed behaviour, the serious situation in Europe, and we have spent money accepting refugees. This government is responsible for economic policy. Unlike the previous government, we didn't increase the use of oil money when we took over, we kept it tight. We have to take responsibility. Like the previous government, we did not present these additional appropriations in a crisis. It will come in future budgets. [[The President knocks.]] We have revised the budget, which comes in May, and we have a new budget coming to the harvest. [[The President knocks again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e177	The President has not recorded that the Easter feast has led to changes in speaking time, so that's still true!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e182	I'm sorry, President. I just want to stress that I am happy that the government is pleased that it inherited a good economy from the previous government. So we came out of the pandemic with a much stronger economy than the many, including the then big business representative Jonas Gahr Støre, thought we would do, because we led a good economic policy. But what we have to do now is look forward to: what challenges do we face? When, in the 2015 refugee crisis, we put forward a proposition to deal with the economic consequences, we covered most of the extraordinary expenses. We are now, at the moment, in an overheated situation in the economy. Then there will be a question of containment. We have said that we will vote in favour of the expenditure that has been put forward now, but we will not participate in the further bidding. I hope the government will take that offer and say that you have a majority for this, and that we will not get a new bidding round in the Stortingen for more expenses. My question is: will the government then cover the expenditure of the revised national budget, or is it willing to risk an additional interest rate increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e191	I have expressed my opinion on this with interest rate increases several times. That's what the representative says, that we're coming from a level of close to zero. Norway’s Bank has announced a steady escalation of interest rates. It is the responsibility of the Bank of Norway to implement, and it is the responsibility of the government to pursue a fiscal policy that helps to respond to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy. The government does. We're going to come back to this in good order in the revised budget, which is mid-year, and when we come with the budget for 2023, to the usual appointments that are in Stortinget. In the case of exceptional expenditure, measures and containment, it is true that during the pandemic, the government of Solberg provided extensive packages in the Stortinget which both received broad support and were changed here in Stortinget, without it then following the invasion with it. However, we need a responsible economic policy, and fiscal policy should contribute to achieving the objectives we have – high employment and many at work, and that is what we see now. Then we're going to adapt it to the high temperature of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e198	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e203	There is a relatively large difference between an economy that falls by 2.5 pst. and an economy that goes too far and lacks resources. It has a completely different effect. Therefore, there is a difference between the two situations mentioned. So in the most parallel situation, we covered the cost. But is it such to understand that the Prime Minister now guarantees that he will be covered in the revised national budget? And will the Prime Minister accept the offer to ensure that families with children do not now experience further increased interest rates – because you spend too much money here in the house – and simply say yes to the Right offer to vote for the proposition that was promoted, without us making changes in it now, so that we do not receive a new bid for increased public expenditure? Or is it that the Right is the only party that supports the government – not even the government parties on the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e210	The last one there was a little special. If the Right is the only party in Norway that supports the government, we are in a new situation. I don't think that's the way it is. Now there must be good negotiations here in the Grand Duchy. My impression, when I listened to Stortinget's games, was that what we presented before Easter, was widely accepted. It was a necessary proposal on defence and a necessary proposal on refugees. I feel that also what we provided in terms of electricity, now the country has done well. In the context of the revised national budget, we normally contact our budgetary partner to negotiate. That's SV. If the Right wants to be in the cheerleader for that, I would like to welcome them. We must conduct a responsible economic policy. We need to achieve the key objectives we have – work for everyone and a good economy. Of course, we should not help to increase interest rates more than what Norway’s Bank has already announced. It's their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e219	Heidi Nordby Lunde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e225	Let me make it quite clear: right-wing support for the government's economic measures as a result of the crisis in Ukraine, in order to avoid a political game and a spiral of costly negotiations. We will contribute both to Ukraine and at the same time ensure that Norway helps refugees in the best possible way. Just in my own circle of friends, I now have seven Ukrainian refugees who have recently arrived. This engages and concerns us all. The willingness to help is great, and the opening-up of measures and costs is high. But if the cost becomes too high, the will may be confused. That is why we are also concerned about those who are struggling with the private economy. Increases in interest rates due to increased use of public money will lead to a large increase in costs for ordinary people. In other words, if the government does not give priority to its budgets, normal people must give priority instead. I'm a little surprised. I have to assume when a government delivers a proposition to the Stortinget, that they actually believe that it is responsible for both measures and costs. Now the government has a majority for its proposition and its proposals with Right-wing votes. Can the Prime Minister say yes to this proposal, so that interest increases to ordinary people are avoided?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e232	I welcome the support that the Right has given to what we have presented. I feel that it is a support we also get from several other parties. Then I have respect for the fact that the Storting has now received our material. It has to be negotiated in good manners. The Minister of Finance and I said from the moment we presented this package – both on defence and on refugees – that the broader the solutions we get on this, the better it is. For one important reason: the friends to which the representative refers, who are concerned with both the economy and refugees. I am very concerned that the refugees will experience that they come from a country in war to a country in peace, where there is a broad consensus on how to receive them. That's why we're going out wide with this. That the Right signals support for it, I think it's good. We have put forward a proposal we believe is adapted and good, and I want to work to get an impact on it in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e239	Heidi Nordby Lunde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e244	Once again, I want to say that the right is behind the measures, but at the same time I am concerned about the expenditure increases that ordinary people can experience as a result of the measures. It is important that we maintain that willingness to help, and that it also goes over time, even if you experience changes in your own economy. Increases in interest rates due to irresponsible overburden policy – which the Prime Minister and the Government parties now propose through negotiations, when they already have a majority in the Stortinget – will eat up all of the support schemes so far and will be impossible to compensate for. At the same time, this government will increase public expenditure by cost-effective reversals of necessary reforms such as judicial reform, rail reform, red tape and public sector efficiency. In fact, the right believes that it is unsocial to shift the need for containment to ordinary people through interest rate increases. The government is seeded to begin with the payments made to the aid budget during the evaluation of the measures. Isn't it really better to freeze costly reversals? Are there several municipalities that refugees are asking for, and what Norway needs now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e251	The representative is both very concerned about this package and very concerned about it. So it has to be a little bit difficult to handle and balance. We will work to get this agreement well through in Stortinget. It is necessary to receive refugees in a good way. It shall be carried out in a economically responsible manner. I thank you for supporting this. The Government shall conduct a responsible policy. There is in no way any other goal than to ensure that we can then achieve other objectives we have in our political platform, namely to reduce the differences between people. It's interesting to hear the representative's great concern that people with the usual economy will be more vulnerable because we're now helping refugees. After eight years of increasing disparities with the Right in Government, where the tax cuts have gone to those with the most, where the distribution has gone in a negative direction, this government has a different policy for this, in terms of access to kindergartens, access to school leisure schemes and access to welfare. We need to ensure a policy that reduces disparities and also provides security for refugees coming to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e258	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e263	Even before the atrocious war in Ukraine, people and businesses in Norway broke down with electricity bills. Now you also get high fuel prices. At the worst, prices have been up to 27 kroner a litre. The government's contribution overall has been to increase fuel taxes in the current year. Food prices are rising and there may be a food crisis in the world. Interest has increased. This is the worst year for people in economics for a long time, and there are common people who lose purchasing power. On April 8, the magazine told about the family of Ann Kristin Sandelin, who is two adults and two children. They mark expenditure messages. If the prices continue, the family may have to cut off the leisure services for the children and warm meals, and much of the holiday money they expect to pay simply bills. According to Consumer Economist Magne Gundersen in Sparebank 1, this and similar families will receive additional costs of up to NOK 50 000 this year, and according to the same Gundersen, a high wage settlement will not compensate for the total expenditure increase that people are experiencing now. Those who have the least, are hit the most, but now also ordinary families are affected by this. I wonder: Why does the government sit quietly and watch ordinary families, lonely and retired people now be fluttered by a price increase running smoothly, while the state treasury floods with income from electricity, oil and gas? In March, the country received the highest income from exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e272	The experience of sitting still has good coverage in the former government to describe. The party of progress has been in government – and supported government – for eight years. There was a proposal here in Stortingen to prepare for action in response to increased electricity prices. You didn't do anything. This was something this government had to deal with when it came. We don't sit still. We are affected by how this affects families, how it affects people with exposed economies, and from the first stage, when we negotiated our budget, we have gone out wide to remedy them: support for housing support in several rounds, the comprehensive billion package for power support to help ordinary people on the electricity bill. The Government and the SV now agree that this scheme will apply until March 2023. We have extended the scheme to the voluntary sector, agriculture, greenhouses, etc. out 2022, and we're going to evaluate this scheme at the end of the year to see how it works and can be targeted. So the increase in the housing stock is supposed to get people who are struggling, to the rescue. None of this took hold of the Advance Party. It's been going on and on and on. This needs to be seen in the context of how we meet it with targeted measures, and in addition other measures that are important for people with vulnerable economies. There is our welfare state – health services, fairer kindergartens, school leisure arrangements, stopping the privatisation of healthcare, which distinguishes the economy from accessing good health care – an important part of what helps people in their everyday lives. We've put forward an energy commission to look at our entire energy system, but we've already simplified the arrangement, a proposal to be able to simplify the arrangement, with long-term contracts at a stable price. We're going to work on this and look at how we can set up our energy system so that ordinary people can afford to pay for electricity and not be in the difficult situation they've been in in in the last few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e285	The situation has not been ongoing and ongoing. It has been going on under the government of Støre, and whatever happens, the feedback is that the government is following the situation closely. The Party has proposed to eliminate charges and to introduce a maximum price on electricity. We have proposed to eliminate fuel taxes, halve the food tax. Whatever's suggested, it's going to be downgraded. The Social Democrats in Sweden brought their own crisis package for the drivers. The oil country Norway does nothing, despite having record revenues from this sector. How long will the government follow the situation closely? What does it take for the government to wake up and do something? Is there a price of $30, is there a price of $40? When are you going to wake up and see what's going on out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e292	I can confirm that the government is awake and working around the clock and follows this situation. In the case of fuel prices, we follow them on an ongoing basis. They fluctuate with an oil price that has gone up and that has fallen, and we follow it to see if there is any reason for our own action. We haven't, so far, come to the conclusion that it's the right thing to do. But, as I said, we have spent a lot of money, which was so that the cooperation party for the Progress Party was worried about what we are doing now in relation to the Norwegian economy when we are relieving electricity customers with the bill. We've extended that power supply. The main feature of the households' economy is electricity, in this context, and here the government has come with strong grips for which we have received a majority in the Stortinget, and I am pleased about that. It helps the situation for ordinary people – plus everything else we do – and of course, we will always look for measures that are adapted to the situation we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e299	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e305	That the Right Party and the Labour Party will sit and look at this, gets to be their case, but the problem is that it hits people. The government is concerned with low unemployment in Norway, but the question is how long this low unemployment will last. In the construction and truck industries, many are now afraid of bankruptcy, and if diesel prices continue, it will happen in a large way. Many companies experience a million notifications of diesel costs in addition to having a difficult paycheck. Leif Sande in Levanger has 50 trucks. He'll get an extra $25 million. kr in the year if this continues. Busengdal transport in Stordal in Møre and Romesdal gets an extra charge of 5 million. kr. They believe that the government's view will lead to a liquidity crisis in many companies. Doesn't it make any sense to the Prime Minister that there is a warning coming from the truck and construction industry, and if it makes an impression, when is the government going to wake up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e310	It makes an impression on me. I get the messages from many teams around the country about the challenges that business faces. As far as electricity is concerned, the arrangement we are now seeing that long-term contracts can be signed at a much lower price, fixed-price agreements, could be an important contribution to business. Households get their support through the power supply system we have. So it's the companies that have to make their assessments in relation to the prices of fuel, that swing. I fully understand that there are challenges when they go up, but there are no announcements from the government to intervene in it now. Then we're going to hope that the companies will be able to find the right balance between the costs they have and the costs customers have. The Norwegian economy is going well, as we were going through instead. It's high activity. There are many assignments, and it's high temperature. We believe that we should be careful and ensure that interest rates do not rise in such a situation and conduct a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e319	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e324	What the industry is asking is, how long is it going to be with the prices that are now? Now we've had six months with sky-high power prices. The government hasn't done anything for corporations yet. We know that a lot of people work: laundry, bakery, industrial companies. REC Solar Norway budgeted with power costs in December of 6.5 million. kr. The bill came in at $40 million. kr. They are now simply assessing whether they have the right to life in Norway. It is far from party speeches about the bet on the green shift to the harsh realities that are out there. Power prices are predicted to be high for a long time. Even in the summer, the Nordics have to put themselves at record prices. The Progress Party has proposed a maximum price, which will also help businesses, but it is also downgraded here in the Stortinget. Will the government continue to sit the paralysis of action, or will you do something to help the business, which gets harder and harder hit every month that goes, and where the money is tapped out by the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e331	I understand that the companies that are now experiencing increased electricity prices and who have not secured themselves with long-term contracts with fixed prices have a difficult situation, and that it requires adjustments and too many are difficult – just as I understand that families who feel that the family budget has to go to pay electricity, while it was intended to be used for holidays or expenses for children, are affected. Maybe that's what makes the most impression on me, how it happens in everyday life. We have also taken strong steps to remedy this. Then it's corporate responsibility to make decisions if they secure themselves with fixed and long contracts, or if they buy power in the spot market, where prices vary. Now we've just aired and put forward ideas that we're considering promoting here in Stortinget that can secure fixed-price contracts in the long term, which can bring those prices down significantly. It will be an important measure for business. And then it's still the business that has to assess its risk in a market where prices fluctuate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e338	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e343	Even with the power support, families experience more than twice as high power bills. But while we have sky-high electricity prices in Norway, exports go too far. The level of filling in Norwegian water storage plants is lower than in a normal year, and although the water storage plants are record low, exports go too far. The fact that Norwegian electricity customers will pay the price of Merkel’s and Germany’s naïve energy policies, where they have become dependent on Putin and Russia despite repeated warnings, is unacceptable. The proposal of the Progress Party to limit electricity exports will be discussed tomorrow in Stortinget and will be voted down. The government says they want to talk to the EU and the United Kingdom. My question is: are these discussions with the EU and the United Kingdom going on? And if not, when does that happen, and when can you expect to get a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e348	We've been through this several times here in Stortinget. Norway is linked to the countries around us with a comprehensive transmission system. It has served Norway well over the years. Now we are affected by high gas prices, high CO 2 prices, in Europe, which are also affecting parts of Norway, especially in the south. It's a serious challenge and one of the issues we're going into thoroughly now with the Energy Commission that's been reduced to see how our energy system works. It has worked well for many years and has served Norway well — now there are some obvious challenges. Then we're going to have those talks with the EU, the United Kingdom and countries where we have transfers, but it's not that Norway now, because it's high prices, can turn off those agreements and subtract us from them. This is a two-way agreement, where we have advantages of what the hours of day there are lower prices in Europe. That's what we've been talking about. We will implement them, in good order, with countries with which we have long-term relations and which are now in a situation far more demanding than it is in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e358	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e363	I hope those conversations go faster than much of what the other government does. The situation in agriculture is dramatic. Here, too, the government is following the situation carefully, so it's doing nothing and nothing. Large food manufacturers now say they want to throw in the towel. Farmers report hundreds of animals for slaughter. Kristian Hovde in Brumunddal has reported over 600 cattle for slaughter. Tore Næss, who is dairy farmer up in Verdal, bets large and produces 500 tons of milk, has had to get a full job at Aker Verdal next to running a large farm to get it to go around. He says it outright: it's all over doing, we're losing money. The whole spring, the government has been warned of the serious agricultural situation, but despite this, nothing has been done, and the world is facing a food crisis. Why has the government refused to sit down with the farmers throughout the spring and start talks to clarify what framework conditions farmers will have in order to ensure Norwegian agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e372	Here the former Minister of Agriculture has unusually selective memory. So we are in a situation in agriculture where the income gap has grown over the eight years when the representative was partly responsible. There were no things done. It's a big challenge we now have to tackle, and we have the goal of doing something about it. In line with the agricultural agreement, this government has followed up agriculture between the agreements and contributed a total of 1.5 billion. kr into that system due to an increase in electricity prices and other important commodities. The situation is extremely serious for many in agriculture as a result of increased fertiliser prices, input prices, etc. The Minister of Agriculture has now clearly signaled that we need to have our own support scheme for food grain so that we get more production of cereals that can be important for food in Norway. Then I can just point out that, in line with our agreement, we will have negotiations with agricultural organisations in a short time, and then we will get back to this. This is a government that has followed up on agriculture, as opposed to what happened in the eight previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e382	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e387	It's a hard world we now have to deal with. Climate change, the aftermath of covid and the war in Ukraine are throwing us into one crisis after another. Global food shortages, increasing levels of conflict in countries, between countries, north to south, poor towards rich can quickly become a reality. All of this must be met with policies, major reforms and efforts on many fronts. One of these areas: Many European countries are now working on bombs to become independent of fossil imports. After Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, one climate plan after another is reinforced to become as rapidly as possible independent of imports of gas and oil from the Putin regime. This shows how closely climate and security policies are linked. Norway is in a very difficult situation. We are extremely concerned about high oil and gas prices, and it attracts capital and investment and binds labour to the very present Europe at an even higher pace. Steel Knoff Johansen in Aker Verdal fears industrial death if the green projects continue to fail, and he thinks that the situation we are now facing, with overinvestment of capital in oil and gas, can lead to yard deaths. What does the government do to get Norway out of this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e400	It is a very important topic that the representative addresses, and I can confirm that this is something that all countries in Europe are now working on and having a lot of focus on. Much attention is paid to Norway, with the following questions: Can we trust Norway to supply gas? Can we trust that Norway is there as a stable, predictable, democratic gas supplier? Our answer is yes. We deliver everything we can, and when Melkøya comes back into operation in May/June, we will also be able to contribute something more to LNG. This enquiry comes from our usual customers, but widely across Europe. Here it is important that Norway is conscious of its responsibility as a stable energy supplier. The big shift to happen is in the direction of renewables, which the representative is talking about, and we agree that we should contribute to this. Gas becomes a very important source on that road. As the European Commission has defined in its 2030 targets plan, gas – and in particular if we succeed in capturing and storing CO 2 – can become a stabilising force needed to scale up wind, sun, wind at sea, wind on land. This is what Norway wants to be in for too much. After years of standstill, we have now started with the first phase of expanding Norwegian sea winds. We have commissioned the NVE to map the entire coast for new areas where we can develop Norwegian sea winds. We're going to scale up the ambitions we can have to produce new renewable energy, both to electrify our own base and to deliver power to land and to be part of the power grid that comes around Europe. It benefits our shipyards, because here there are great opportunities and assignments for the Norwegian supplier industry, and they are in a position to take these tasks precisely because there is now also activity on oil and gas. That's this transition we're going to make, and that's this transition we've been involved in ensuring, among other things. through the measures taken when markets near to collapse under the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e412	What Ståle Knoff Johansen claimed in the Class struggle yesterday is that the measures that the government has taken to facilitate investment in the oil industry do not actually lead to green projects. That is precisely why within five years they may fear the death of the shipyards. Similarly, Energy Norway says that the level of ambition on which the government has committed itself in relation to liquid sea winds, with 1.5 GW of power, can only take place around 2030 and that it is too late. So we're in a situation where it's important to do something right now, you have to change the course now. SV has put in a proposal for a fast track for floating sea winds where one goes directly to the oil companies and instructs them to deal with the introduction of floating sea winds. Is this something that the government can view as a possibility of just lifting a yard industry that fears the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e419	Firstly, we have adopted greater ambitions than the representative now said. Only 1.5 GW have been decided to come directly to Norway. Then there's going to be another 1.5 GW, which we're assessing is going to be on a larger European network. And then we have Utsira with floating sea winds going on. But this is just the beginning. The representative from Aker Verdal said, I listen very carefully. But I can assure you that the plans that the government has are drawing a picture of a great industrial potential for Norwegian shipyards, for Norwegian suppliers, based on the competence they have from underwater installations and offshore industry to scale up Norwegian sea wind inputs. That's exactly why we're now going all over the coast to see an increased opportunity to launch projects. Then I'm for all sorts of quick tracks, we see how we can shorten the time in concession treatment. It still has to be in a responsible way, going through the relationship with other industries thoroughly, but we also see the potential that we can do things faster, and we are thoroughly investigating that with a view to achieving it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e428	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e433	It is good to right that the Prime Minister is for all possible quick tracks. What is SV's solution is that you do not need this type of concession processing, precisely because this stream is not to be run in the country. He simply has to supply the rigs at sea. Thus, a set of projects in industry can be started in a few years. Then there will just be a handshake to Aker Verdal and others and could make Norway come to the front of this important industry trail of the future. The reason I took this up is that yesterday Denmark presented a difficult plan, Denmark can do more than 2, where a green tax reform with support for the green nutrition project is launched and rolled out. There is a doubling in support of energy efficiency improvement in households, a large expansion of renewable energy with zero emissions targets by 2030. They increase the level of sea wind ambition and indicate a higher rate for their 70 pst. target in 2030. Will there be such a difficult initiative from the government that goes into the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e440	Each country has its history and its starting point for where they rate. I think we're going to start with our scheme. We have stated very clearly that we will be part of the EU's 55 pst targets, working together on it. Last night I had a conversation with the President of the European Commission on precisely this, how Norwegian sea wind becomes an important solution, how Norwegian capture and storage of CO 2 becomes an important solution, and how Norwegian gas becomes an important solution in the stability that will be. It differs from Denmark in other ways. I have a lot of sense for this idea that we can produce as much power out there related to the platforms from sea wind as it comes from land, and the much more we can do out there, the better. Now it is likely that the force will have to be first to land, then to get out again, in order to be stable in the platforms receiving the oil installations. But here are the great opportunities where Norway is well positioned, and which I think also benefits jobs like in Verdal. We're not going to waste any time on this, and where we can shorten the treatment period, we're going to do it. And we want to increase the ambitions of every opportunity we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e450	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e455	I thank you for your answer. The challenge is that the pace is too low. 2030 is so far ahead that there is simply a risk of deindustrialisation. The Prime Minister mentioned climate goals, and until then I have a small but important question that I wonder about. The government has submitted a supplement to the energy message from the previous government, and it does not adjust to the climate targets in the Hurdal platform, but one that is based on the climate targets of the previous government – which we think was too weak. It was at least 50 pst. up to 55 pst. The plugin does not say that one should focus on the target on the Hurdal platform, and it has created some confusion. But I noticed that the Prime Minister said 55 pst. Possible Is it just a forget that one has fallen at the level of the previous government, and that one has not made it clear that it is the Hurdal platform's reinforced climate goal to apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e462	What we have written in the supplementary notice is what Norway has committed itself to, what is stated in the Climate Change Act. That is what we have reported to the United Nations for the follow-up to the Paris Agreement. The EU has the plan they call Fit 55, which is a 55 pst. Objective. What has been notified by the Norwegian side is 50-55 pst. Let's say 55 pst. in the Hurdal platform. The aim of the Hurdal platform is to underline the ambition we have for action across the economy – including in the quota sector. We want to contribute and push that they are in front of cutting emissions. This is one of the reasons why we are implementing an electrification system on the base, where the representative points to great, exciting opportunities now by allowing sea wind to happen over, as many have assumed, that everything must be done by force from land. I think that gives some very big and exciting opportunities. Positioning the Norwegian industry at the forefront of this is the ambition that underpins the very comprehensive objectives of the Hurdal platform. We're going to be able to switch to Norway throughout the economy. I think the economy and businesses are asking for that, and they are going to get it with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e470	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e475	Back to the main starting point: what is our fear is that we are now – in a situation where climate plans throughout Europe are reinforced and reinforced, making a more and more independent of oil and gas – are not keeping pace with the transition in Norway. What makes us concerned about the notification of the previous government, where one had a low level of ambition for 2030, is that we are also slowing down on the new, larger industrial capabilities, and that the pace that the government has so far taken, but where one looks forward to discussing new things, is too far ahead, and that it can lead to deindustrialization. Finally, the question is simply: could the government be involved in reporting a new target in line with the United Nations Hurdal Platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e482	We're basing the target that's been notified to the United Nations. We haven't had plans to change it. But I believe that in one area, the representative and I separate. I think it's still going to get assignment to Norwegian shipyards related to oil and gas. It's not phased out. We put on a Norwegian base up to a high level of activity with increased entries of renewable industries – hydrogen, sea wind, CCS and other industries – because we know that oil and gas are going down. But we're not going to end it. There will be new projects, and what comes from Europe in terms of gas is a demand for Norway to be there as a stable supplier. If we succeed with that and carbon capture and storage, there will be many exciting assignments to Norwegian shipyards as well. What I can say is that in the case of renewables, in the case of sea winds, in the case of all the investments with the very great opportunities Norway has along its coast, we are going to work to increase both ambitions, cut short of time and use all the opportunities for it in a responsible and good way that can also give Norway more power, because that is what we need in the energy situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e489	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e494	The answer from the Prime Minister to the representative of the State of County on the sea wind was an impressive example of selective storytelling. The Prime Minister therefore says that it has our stature in the development of the Norwegian sea wind for a long time. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that the world's largest floating sea wind farm, Hywind Tampen, is now being completed. I suppose the Prime Minister has plans to open him when he is ready, but I can reveal that it is not this government that has neither financed him nor given the concession. What this government has done, on the other hand, is halve the rate of expansion on the South North Sea II for bottom-solid sea winds. The Prime Minister himself said that 3 GW should not be built, 1.5 GW should be built. Then you might want to build more afterwards. But then one depends on hybrid cables, and that's where the dog is buried, because that's the government's opposite. Or that is to say, the Prime Minister said to the evening post before Easter that he supported the idea of a North Sea. Then he got the question if he thought he'd get the Center Party on this, and then the Prime Minister said, "We have to work for that." So then the question is, how does the work of persuasion go to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e503	I think that was a very good response from the Prime Minister. We have to work every day to get through good solutions. It is wrong that the level of ambition is halved. The level of ambition is clarified in order to start early. So when we get 1,500 MW directly to Norway, it's going to be able to give us power equivalent to 400,000 households. We need that into the southern energy mix – I think everyone see that – and we're going to take a stand for the next 1,500 MW during the autumn. There won't be a waste of time; we've come to a good start. There we have to consider different types of hybrid solution, which means that the force can also go anywhere other than directly to land. But this government, unlike the representative Rotevatn, is against sending more force from Norway right out to Europe. Norwegian households, Norwegian industry, Norwegian energy conversion and green bets need more power in the north, mid and south. That's what we're doing. And then we're going to have a powerful sea-window construction in the new areas, as I replied to the representative of County.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e512	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e517	This year the Easter dawn has been overshadowed by concerns about rising prices and family budgets that do not rise. Over two years of pandemic, hundreds of thousands of workers have been out of work for periods and thus had much less to live on. Many bank accounts have now collapsed, and the buffer has been used up for the most time. Therefore, the price crisis could not come at any worse time than now. Electricity, food, transport and fuel are not all goods. We're dependent on it, and we can't just pick it away overnight. It's true that patience can be a virtue. I think many people think that the government's almost limitless patience in dealing with the price shock has not impressed. What is happening now is that many people around the world, common and unusual, but with very common incomes, are hit hard by the increased prices of electricity, food, fuel and transport. Biggers have said a good deal about what the government won't do in the face of the crisis. I'd like to give Sturgeon the opportunity to say a little bit more about what the government will do to make sure the community stands up. In Sweden, they have cut fuel taxes and the cost of travelling collectively. In Germany, we see the same thing, and in other European countries, we see governments going in to get control of electricity prices. What is the Norwegian Government's plan in the face of this price crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e526	A lot of people have been out of work in the pandemic. That alarmed us greatly. We were involved in running through packages here in Stortinget, which made the economy start again, and we now, after six months with this government, have a record low unemployment. We have 70,000 more at work. We now have a great opportunity to get people into jobs that have been on the outside of the labour market. We put a lot of emphasis on that. And so it's also that average in Norway, many Norwegians have put up money through the pandemic, which makes them come out of the pandemic and contribute to a pretty strong rise in the economy. Our focus is on the people who are not in the lucky situation, the people who need the community and the welfare state there to remedy this situation and give them security. Let me start there: this is a government that prioritises a policy that doesn't give tax cuts to them the most. We give tax cuts to those who have money and lower incomes. We make it easier to have children in kindergarten, and we make healthcare available to more people, regardless of money – the basic security. We have joined forces with the majority in Stortinget and extended housing support and adopted new standards for the calculation of social assistance, which will ensure this safety net for those who are most vulnerable. I can just repeat: we have, I think, the most comprehensive insurance schemes for power customers than any other country, by what we've done with taking 80 pst. of the bill over 70 cents on the price, and we've added an extension of it until March 2023, even 90 cents. at the end of the year. So it is that neither this government nor any other government can zero out what happens in terms of food prices due to, among other things. the war in Ukraine. This isn't going to work. Then we all have to contribute to remedying the situation for those who are hardest hit. That's what this government is doing, and we're going to keep doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e539	We have asked for an overview of how this corona saving divides between poor and rich families, and I would like to have such an overview when it is available. It's useful to see the distribution of this so-called saving. The Prime Minister mentioned food prices. There was a mark outside the Storting today early when the farmers called for warning about how the increase in the price of both fertilisers, construction products, fuel and power feed makes them risk going bankrupt. So as the prices in the shops increase, the income of the food producers does not increase. But we see that the owners of the big chains have had record profits both last year and last year in almost 4 billion. kr. Does Støre see that it is a problem that the money does not go to the food producers, and that the price increase affects the most, while the owners of the big chains are left with a record surplus? What will the government do to fix this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e548	We are in favour of more competition and transparency in the food market, which ensures that we get a variety of products to choose from, at the best possible price for the consumer. The Norwegian trade curve has not increased very much in price over the last long years, but now, with war in Ukraine, which gives more expensive fertilisers, higher production prices and products that are missing, there is a strong driver in that price increase. I also have a strong understanding of Norwegian farmers and others who work in agriculture, which are now affected by these increased prices. As I said on a previous question, the government has twice met farmers' organisations to settle some of this, and we are going to meet the agricultural organisations for negotiations next week, in connection with the agricultural settlement of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e556	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e561	Then we look forward to the government's offer in those agricultural negotiations. It will be important for Norwegian food production in the years to come. We know that several people are now telling us that electricity prices are not going to go down a lot in the future, but that they can be high in the summer as well. We also saw in April that the flow was more expensive in South Norway than in Germany and more than twice as expensive as in Sweden. There are extensive support packages that we have supported, but there is one grip that is missing. It is to ensure political control over power prices, which is the requirement of industrial action and much of the trade movement. Now, when you look at the price picture in the future, does Støre see the need for us to have a government that also wants to take control of prices and not just try to repair the damage afterwards, through the compensation mechanisms that have been put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e572	There are hours in the day when Norwegian prices in the south may have been highest in Europe, but it is not true that Norway has the highest energy prices in Europe. If you go through it for a little longer, it's far from the case. But the situation in South Norway is that you have persistently high prices. The cost of electricity will go down somewhat as we now go into the warmer part of the year, because we use less power. We must continue to work with, among others. energy efficiency improvement and ambition to reduce costs as well. I am in favour of political control over our energy system, and I believe that we have an energy system that is designed to use resources in the best possible way. 2020 was the year with the lowest energy prices in recent times, 2021 was the year with the highest. It shows the fluctuations in a nature-based energy system that Norway has. However, as I have said several times in this room, we have a wide range of comprehensive measures targeting power users in Norway, private, families: housing support, social assistance, power support system. We also have an energy commission that goes through thoroughly how this energy system works, in order to make possible changes that can take care of the interests of families and the interests of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e581	What I mentioned was that in April the flow in South Norway was more expensive than in Germany and more than twice as expensive as in Sweden. That's probably a fact. Calculations have now been made to show that we are going to get a record high electricity price even during the summer. The new thing that has happened in the last year is that North Sea Link has been put into full operation, that is, our export capacity out of the country dramatically increased and increased integration into Europe's free flow of electricity considerably more than in previous years. This integration is why we are getting more and more imports of prices from the continent and the United Kingdom. What we're asking is whether the government will consider using the mechanisms contained in the electricity exchange agreements, precisely in order to limit power exports, to keep power prices down and to avoid further sinking the filling density of the water storage plants. It would just be to take political control of the energy system, as Støre mentioned in his previous reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e588	I think the representative of Moxnes is familiar with the content of the agreements concluded by governments before us. This means that measures can be taken in terms of energy exchange, network security and security of supply. It's not a cable we can turn on and off to regulate prices in Norway. That's not the way the agreements are made. If they were made like this, we would have partners on the other side that would do the same thing. It would create great unforeseeability if the United Kingdom turned on and off based on what was the price picture there. But we have a review with those countries to see how these agreements work. We've said from the government that there won't be any new foreign connections in this magnification period until we have a full overview of their effects. We also need to understand the significance of these cables for the Norwegian price picture and have a good answer to that before we may make changes in the way our energy system is organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e595	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e600	Initially, I would like to express the full support of the Left that Norway has now delivered Mistral Air Protection to Ukraine. After the evidence we've received on war crimes committed by Russian forces in Ukraine, I think it's an overwhelming majority in this Chamber who want to support Norway's efforts to do what we can. I also believe that there is a large majority in the population for that. So the question is, what can Norway contribute to in the very serious situation we are now facing? On 3 March, the Left in the United Kingdom proposed that Norway should consider supporting Ukraine financially so that they can acquire weapons and other defence equipment they need to win this war. On 30 March, Prime Minister Støre and I both sat in this room and heard President Zelensky speak to the Stortinget. There he asked us both for weapons and money. Norway is not a weapon tower power, and what we can deliver to Ukraine is limited. But we are, relatively speaking, an economic power, which can and should contribute to Ukraine's ability to acquire material from another side. In the EU, they have coordinated themselves through the European Peace Facility, and other countries, such as Germany, have provided bilateral financial support to Ukraine for the acquisition of weapons. In previous Questionnaires, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said that the government is assessing the possibility of contributing to this fund. We are aware that Ukrainian authorities want this kind of support, and the fact that the war now seems to last longer also reinforces the argument for setting up, so that Ukraine can use the funds itself. NUPI expert Karsten Friis also supports such an approach. He says that if we don't have enough weapons to give away, we should be able to do more financially. How does the Prime Minister assess the possibility for Norway to join the European Peace Facility’s Ukraine fund, or in other ways bilateral support Ukraine by means of rapid arms acquisition?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e611	It's true that we sat together in the hall and heard President Zelenskyj. I am also talking to him quite regularly, and also to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with whom we have good dialogue and who knows Ukraine's needs. Norway shall participate in and support Ukraine in its defence against a war of international lawless, aggressive invasion by Russia, which has been built up over a year and came on 24 February. It's one before and after February 24. We shall be involved in the important areas currently in force. First, we must lead in the humanitarian field. Norway was early out with 2 billion. kr, which was immediately put into action to remedy the situation. We have contributed directly financially to Ukraine’s economy in order to pay teachers and health workers in Ukraine – an important purpose also for Ukraine to function as they do. We are joining the EU's sanctions. We have used them as a basis for Norwegian legislation. We stand most strongly when we stand with other countries. It was also a topic yesterday in my conversation with the European Commission. And we have here together deviated from previous practices by now we also give weapons. We're going to keep doing that. There are a good number of sensitive aspects to the provision of weapons, both the decision on it, the publication of it and the choices Norway makes. As Prime Minister, I am concerned that Norway should contribute. We've contributed, and we're going to contribute more. At the bottom, we must take care of Norway's defences. We're right there, we've got the neighborhood we've got. This means that Norwegian security must be a priority when making these assessments. So we have contributed two deliveries of M72. We have today announced that there is now a delivery of Mistral Air Protection. Now we're also doing other assessments. I don't go into any more detail about it. We have also contributed financially to a fund that the British have created, which is an allied Norway well knows on the weapons side, which can make it possible to secure weapons for Ukraine in the situation they are currently in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e628	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that there is a very demanding situation. It is important that we put ourselves in a position to act quickly, both in terms of providing weapons and money, and also in terms of penalties. The prohibition of Russian vessels in Norwegian ports has been the subject of several debates in this Chamber, at least just before Easter, when we discussed our proposal for further sanctions and support for Ukraine. It was also one of the main messages from the Ukrainian President. On the same day, the Prime Minister dismissed it. ‘It is not relevant for Norway to close ports today. We're lying there and we have the coast we have," said Støre that time. However, in the 5th EU Penalty Package, the ban on the arrival of Russian flagged vessels in EU ports came, and the Council of State has said in a written reply that Norway will implement the 5th EU Penalty Package, which also includes port bans. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Has Norway moved, or has the coast changed since 30 March? And does the Prime Minister regret that Norway did not use the space for action we have, by being outside the EU, to investigate a Norwegian ban, so that we could introduce it at the same time as the European Union, on 16 April?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e637	It has been a line from this government that we coordinate our sanctions with the EU. I think it is wise to do this as part of a group of countries with which we have a close economic and political relationship. There is an EEA perspective on this. Our Nordic and European partners are the ones we're with. On 30 March, this was not a decision the EU had adopted, and I think it was right that Norway awaited the assessments made in Europe. They are now done, and as the Council of State Schrein says: Norway is working to introduce this into Norwegian law. Norway will then make its decisions on how to do so. These sanctions decisions in the EU do not have direct effect in Norway, it comes through Norwegian decisions, in law and regulations, and there we also have to take some account of the fact that we are there and that we have a search and rescue responsibility, among other things. in the north that we have to look at. But the decision, the decision, to also introduce this package is taken by the government. And there may be a sixth package, and the attitude will be the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e644	There will be follow-up questions – Guri Melby.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e650	The left fully supports the line that we are doing the same thing as the European Union, that we are on the line of the European Union, and I am very pleased that the government has imposed the sanctions imposed by the European Union. But the question is, with the pace of implementation that we now have, we're going to be about the last in the class to impose a port ban. If we had prepared ourselves, if we had investigated in advance, as we have requested again and again, we could have introduced this at the same time as the ban was introduced into the EU. What kind of signals does it send that Norway is the last time out?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e655	There is a completely wrong representation – ‘last out’. We deal with the decisions that come from our European and Nordic partners, and then we implement this in Norwegian legislation. They will take some time, but it is decisions that have been made very quickly and in order as they have come from Europe. So Russia knows – the Russian President knows, because I've told him in clear order – that Norway is with our closest political and allied partners in relinquishing the war, in supporting Ukraine in their legitimate struggle, and in responding to Russia through sanctions. No one perceives Norway as being behind it. In addition, Norway has taken decisions such as: that state pension funds abroad should not be invested in Russia, and we have some other such national measures as it is natural that we do. But the main strategy must be that we associate with our closest economic and political partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e660	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e665	The Constitution § 112 states that it is a human right for Norwegian citizens that the state’s activities should not destroy the environment. Norway’s Human Rights Institute, NIM, which is the Norwegian expert body to ensure that Norwegian citizens’ rights are respected, sent an investigation to the Ministry of Oil and Energy on the follow-up to the High Court climate action in 2020. NIM considers that the State has an obligation to refuse development and operating permits — or PUD on the public mouth — for new oil fields if it cannot be specifically demonstrated that the individual project is compatible with the 1.5 degree target. They also say that it is close to believing that the obligation to say no to new development permits has already occurred, because up-to-date sources say that new oil and gas production in 2022 is not compatible with achieving the 1.5 degree target. In the additional communication to the Energy Communication submitted by the government Friday before Easter, the government also refers to the Supreme Court conclusion that the State is obliged not to approve PUDs if climate and environmental considerations so warrant, but the Energy Communication does not correspond to what is needed in order for a PUD not to be approved for climate reasons. Until the day when the government actually says no to a PUD with a reason for climate, this is just a theoretical exercise. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: what is it that the government does not approve a PUD for the sake of the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e674	I thank you for the question. This government considers that the Norwegian petroleum industry is to be developed, not liquidated. As I said, we're assuming a high level of activity on the Norwegian base, supplemented by increasing activity related to hydrogen, CCS, sea winds and green shipping, which means we're on our way to a new phase in our energy history. We're going to build new jobs on the shoulders of today. The operating companies shall take into account economic risk and climate risk. It has to be evaluated on an ongoing basis and climate-related risks have to be assessed as one of several risk factors in development projects. Therefore, the Government, at the Ministry of Oil and Energy, will now include in the so-called PUD guides a clarification that in its uncertainty analysis relating to development, a rightholder will also include a stress test against financial climate risk by comparing the price of development – called the balance sheet price – with different scenarios from oil and gas runways compatible with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, including the 1.5 degree target. In that case, it will be assessed whether the individual company and the rightholder respond adequately to the question of whether that PUD is to be approved. I think we need to make experience of this, but this is a new step we are taking to underline the importance of what we have in the Hurdal platform that climate risk considerations should also be taken into account when assessing continued activity on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e683	I want to thank you for the answer even though I would like to understand what it's going to mean in practice. According to Energy24.no, it is expected that as many as 36 PUDs are expected to be sent in for treatment only now during 2022. To the evening post on 8 April, the Minister for Climate and Environment said that he did not expect any dramatic changes to assess the climate impact of new PUDs. This is something quite different than what NIM is preparing in its investigation. They write that it is close to believing that the obligation to say no to new extraction permits has already occurred. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: is it even conceivable that some of the 36 PUD applications to be dealt with in 2022 are rejected as a result of climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e688	I think the representative understands that I cannot forge what the result of that treatment is. New criteria are now being used to assess such applications, and it is, of course, important to stress that it is serious. This has to be assessed against the requirements that have been set, and then a good and thorough answer has to be given. Our goal is to achieve a large emission cut on a Norwegian base. Where it is natural, we are going to contribute to both the electrification of Norwegian cap and more renewable power in Norwegian industry, and we want the Norwegian gas industry in particular to have a future, because it rates on the capture and storage of CO 2. I think the sum of this enables us to contribute better to achieving climate goals, for Norway is going to achieve its climate goals, but in this way we can also develop technologies that allow the large economies outside the world to achieve their climate goals, and then it will really be a good thing to achieve the 1.5 degree target that the Paris Agreement has.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e696	There will be follow-up questions – first Lan Marie Nguyen Berg.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e701	I see that the Prime Minister here just confirms that there is still a business as usual in the allocation of oilfields. It's alarming if we have a government that puts so little emphasis on knowledge. Another of the conclusions of the NIM investigation is that the PUD authorisations issued after 22 December 2020 are contrary to the Constitution. NIM therefore recommends to the Government that these should be re-treated. Will the government follow this recommendation from NIM?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e706	Firstly, that this is contrary to knowledge: we are now implementing new demands for stress testing of projects submitted in relation to financial risk and climate risk. It shall be measured against different price paths to reach the 1,5 degree target. Then there are some demands that have been made and that need to be documented, delivered and evaluated. There's no way to be passive with that. Then the government disagrees with the assessment here that those permits were contrary to the Constitution. We believe it is political decisions that have been taken, Norway has reported that we should contribute to achieving the 1.5 degree objective of the Paris Agreement and that Norway should contribute to it. We therefore agree to comply with the agreement that Norway has concluded and to which the Stortinget has agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e711	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e717	There are now major political changes in Europe. Courageous political leaders, including in our neighbouring countries, has taken the consequences of the security policy situation in record time. However, there are also major changes affecting Norway and our ability to care for Norwegian interests. We work with the EU because it is good for Norway. We do it because we want to, not because we have to, and the European Union is becoming more and more important to Norway. Developments in the EU will also be significantly faster, wider and deeper, and EU countries will be more integrated. At the same time, it means that the consequences of our alienation are becoming clearer and our vulnerabilities are increasing. We will seek more and more additional agreements with the EU to meet Norway’s needs. The EU’s capacity and bandwidth to deal with those countries that will not be fully involved will, of course, be smaller. The EU is at full speed in the future, and this is also true in areas that are very important to Norway. It also applies to foreign and security policy, and although our security policy anchoring is in NATO, it is a major challenge that special security policy is discussed in spaces we are not, and decisions are taken where we are not. The government, on the other hand, has full speed backwards. The Minister of Finance believes incredibly that the EU has become less important, and it seems strange that the Hurdals Platform government has decided to spend time and effort on an investigation to assess the experience of EEA cooperation in the last ten years. In this context, inter alia: the experience of neighbouring countries outside the EU is explored with alternative agreements with the EU. These countries include, inter alia: The United Kingdom and Switzerland, and that has no relevance to Norway. What does the Prime Minister think should be the Norwegian strategy to safeguard Norwegian interests in cooperation with an EU that is moving very rapidly forward without Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e728	Let me start by saying that I am based on what is a reality in Norway – that we are not a member of the EU, it is not a project to apply for membership of the EU, it is not an initiative for it in this room, and this government is ruling on the basis that we are not a member of the EU. But we are a member of the EEA and the extensive cooperation. From that point of view, we are working towards a close relationship with our European and Nordic partners and allies. They are in the EU, and our Nordic neighbours can even enter NATO. And it's a work that's going on week by week. The refugee situation has illustrated that. The Minister of Justice has coordinated closely with his European and Nordic partners and has been invited to EU meetings. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was invited as the only foreign minister outside the EU to attend a meeting of foreign ministers in the EU last week. I think that is because we have proved over time that we are a relevant partner for the European Union. It's different from being a member. I believe the representative and I have our views on what Norway could have chosen in 1994, which we did not, but we are there today, and we are seeking to take care of Norwegian interests. So what's our lead forward? Well, that is to say, where is the Norwegian interest coincided with the large European image in many important areas – in foreign and security policy, to achieve the climate target, i.e. the 55 % target set by the EU? Then we seek cooperation there, and report to where we have qualitative contributions to make. I think Norway has done quite well. In my conversation with the President of the European Commission yesterday, we were in the areas where she is very aware that Norway has the prerequisites to contribute, is being listened to, and it is very much related to areas such as energy, our geographical location, sea-related relations, our neighbourhood with Russia, etc. So my strategy is to take care of Norwegian interests and influence decisions in the EU where it is necessary to change what they otherwise have to adopt, and to show that Norway is a reliable partner when Europe is going to come together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e737	The point of seeking a strategy for what is happening in the EU now is that the old strategies will not work. It's going to go faster, and it's going to be harder to influence. Representatives of the government parties have repeatedly stressed that the purpose of the investigation I mentioned in the introduction is to seek knowledge, and we all know that the resources and time involved in such an investigation are very large, and that means that the estimate cannot be too narrow. I think we fully agree that knowledge is important, and I will then challenge the Prime Minister, based on what he now replied, that the point just has to be to apply for knowledge about what is happening in the future, and not just look back. If knowledge is so important to the government, then this investigation will include issues that have occurred in the development of the EU since 1994, which are important for Norway, such as: foreign and defence policy, as climate, and as health?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e744	The representative’s strategy is EU membership. I have full respect for that. It's a strategy, and then the Right will follow it up. They have decided at their national meeting that they will be a driving force for it, and I respect that. I have now expressed the government's strategy: to take care of Norwegian interests on the basis that we are not a member of the EU. It involves looking for solutions with the EU in very many contexts, as we do. Then I can confirm that in the review of the experience with EEA cooperation from 1994 to today, as the representative says, the first part of the job is done. It was done in 2012. Then there was a research-based investigation, from 1994 to 2010–2011, on how development had progressed. I want a new review, in a similar way, of what has happened from 2012 to today, among other things. in the field of foreign and security policy. This is, of course, the important investigation, that it is necessary to look at the experience of non-EEA countries in not being a member of the EEA. You get to draw those ends as you like. I assume that the representative will see a confirmation that it is not a good solution, as she believes, and others may be interested in seeing how they have experienced it. It's a knowledge I don't think we're getting dumber by having.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e753	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e758	Nor do we get any fools by gaining knowledge of what is happening in the EU now and which affects how we have to act in the future in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. And I must say that the geopolitical moment for this government platform is perhaps the worst thing: we are going to work out a more loose cooperation with the EU and closer cooperation with Russia. I have tried several times to get answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the premises for this investigation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs thought it was ‘a strange question’, and she was not ‘used to be the subject of inquisition in the main hall’, until she then concluded that the investigation should be open. It's a perfectly natural question to ask the government, and I think it's a pretty eye-catching answer. But if we're going to take seriously the Foreign Minister's claim that the investigation should be open, why does the government refuse to look at, for example. the consequences of Norwegian EU membership for Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e767	Let me just firmly reject the opening of the previous speech by the representative, that this government is seeking a more loose cooperation with the EU and a closer relationship with Russia. It's mildly hesitated, and I'll take a strong distance from it. It is very clear in our government statement that we are going to have close and close cooperation with the EU through the EEA Agreement, and in relation to Russia, we have marked very clearly where we stand. We are committed to extending cooperation in the Arctic, in the North, to address the many challenges that are there. It's being made impossible by Russia's war of attack. It's one before and after February 24. So this investigation will look at the experience with the EEA Agreement. So we have not started an investigation into the consequences of EU membership. It's a decision this government has made. Now I see that the party of the representative wants to carry out a work on it, and I respect that, it could help to inform the debate. However, the government's review will be with the experience of the EEA Agreement in the last ten years, and I would also like to warmly welcome all the debate on our relationship with Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e774	Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e779	The Covid-19 pandemic showed us how a health crisis affects local, national and global. It has also shown us how dependent we are on cooperation with the EU. Now that the EU is developing and equipping itself for future health threats through the EU Health Programme, EU4health, it is important that Norway participates in this in order to reduce our vulnerability. While the EU is equipping itself for the future, we have a government to investigate – as has been the case with previous questions – what lies behind us. The Labour Party is in government with a party that obviously does not believe that cooperation with the EU will improve Norway’s preparedness for future health crises. The Centre Party shall have, inter alia: it did not mean that Norway’s access to covid-19 vaccines was ensured through the EU and supported it. Does the Prime Minister consider it important for the Prime Minister to strengthen cooperation with the EU in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e788	That is what the Prime Minister believes, and that is what the government believes, and that is what the parties in the government mean. Therefore, Norway has taken the initiative to become part of the so-called HERA cooperation, which is the newly developed EU health cooperation. It is a decision that the government has taken, and the message I have given to the EU at the leadership level in Brussels and to the leaders of the EU governments. It will be welcomed. It strengthens Norway’s preparedness and our capacity to respond more broadly. The experience from the pandemic is important to have further involved in this context. Here I believe we are following up what is a good Norwegian tradition, where we can both increase security and preparedness, and we can contribute to increased security and preparedness with our closest partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e793	Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e799	It is nevertheless a paradox that we have a government with a platform and that the Labour Party has a partner in government that definitely does not believe that stronger cooperation with the EU is the solution for us and to ensure that we do not become more vulnerable. We saw that when the pandemic hit us, we were vulnerable, especially in terms of supplies and availability of vaccines, medical devices, medicines and infectious diseases. As I mentioned so far in my previous question, it was through the EU, via Sweden, that we had access to vaccines. It has not been given that in the future, when Norway sits on the outside, we could have the opportunity to access completely crucial devices and vaccines, as we had. So we're more vulnerable. What will the Prime Minister do to reduce this vulnerability?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e806	The representative’s party has extensive experience of being in government with parties that are not too close to cooperation with the EU. They did that for eight years. At least one party sitting there was of the opinion that EU membership was not the solution, so there she talks on a good basis. I want to say that in terms of health cooperation, this government has been very clear. We want close health cooperation with the European Union. We want emergency cooperation. We want to look at issues related to Norwegian vaccine and drug production in Norway, whether it is a necessary supplement to what we can get to internationally, in the light of the experience from the pandemic. We want to be part of this HERA collaboration that is now developing, and it has been welcomed. The trouble the representative has, I think she can now lie behind when she goes back to the square, because this government is concerned about it, and we're delivering on it. I think we have learned that yes, we are dependent on European cooperation, as we were in order to access vaccines, and I think we have followed up that cooperation well enough internationally so that we can take care of that security if there is a new crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e815	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-20.ana.ud120e829	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
