ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e30	Honourable co-representatives! The former staging representative Marie Lovise Widnes passed away on 19 November, 91 years old. With her passing we have lost a warm and clear voice. She was an engaged and free-lanced woman who dared to stand in the front row at a time when women would like to stay in the background. Widnes grew up under simple conditions on Sunnmower. In 1952, she received free education from her public high school at Sørmarka. This education was the only one she took out of the ordinary elementary school. She was the leader of the SV County Council in More and Romesdal for 12 years before being elected to the Stortinget in 1989. As a member of the Social Committee, she was involved in matters that could make it easier for women to participate in society in the same way as men, such as kindergarten development, care for the elderly and the disabled in society. She was busy with disarmament, asylum policy and human rights in and outside borders. For a wider audience, Widnes was, however, best known as a lyrical, adorable and a visualist, not least for the song "Gångdoora Home", which was a replay in the Wish Concert. Widnes received a number of local cultural and media awards, and in 2006 she received both the King's service medal in gold and honorary membership in the Norwegian Goal. She will be thought of as a liberating Christian socialist who always fights the weakest of things, a people's power that could challenge in a similar way with glimpses of the eye and great warmth of the heart. She was a commonplace man and a thousand artists who spread optimism and a threat to the future. Thanks for the effort and companionship over many years, we bring peace to the memory of Marie Lovise Widnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e51	The representative, Andreas Shelg Unneland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e56	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Marian Hussein and myself, I propose to preserve the Bredtvet Forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e61	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e66	On behalf of the representatives Bård Hoksrud, Marian Hussein and myself, I propose to ensure that doctors cannot be charged infringement fees for the incorrect prescription of blue prescriptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e71	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e87	On Monday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the government councils Espen Barth Eide, Kjersti Toppe and Emilie Mehl will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question. So we start with the first main question, which is from the representative of Ingunn Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e96	The reform of the Court of Justice has support in a single legal profession, and the warnings against reversal are many. The reform has led to stronger professional environments, more efficient case flows and better resource use. The number of leaders has been reduced, which has freed more time for judicial work. Small District Courts that have previously feared closure now feel more secure and that they are given higher priority. No courts have been closed and no competence jobs have disappeared from the districts. These are the facts. Both judges and judges from large and small district courts and land change rights say: Stop, let the reform work! Unfortunately, it does not seem that the government will listen to it. Instead, there is a consultation proposal with so many arguments that you could wonder if the centre party is still in election mode. The government points out itself, and I quote: ‘Any court structure should have good solutions to the challenges of vulnerability, flexibility and efficiency.’ So the solution to the government is to break down the trade unions and make cooperation between the courts more difficult and spend both time and money on reversing no one in the sector will have. So my question is, doesn't the Council of State see that the government's proposals will exacerbate the challenges they themselves point to?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e107	It is important for the Central Party and the Workers' Party in this government to ensure that we have local courts throughout Norway which are professionally strong, which are anchored in their territory and which contribute to the trust in the courts – which are high in Norway, and that is good – can also be maintained in the future. That is why we have now started implementing one of the points from the Hurdal platform, which is that we want to restore many of the courts of the previous government, of which the Right was part, put down. It was made so that courts that were previously independent courts with their own jurisdiction and management were laid down and instead made a branch office in a larger jurisdiction with remote management. That, I believe, is a development that is unfortunate and that over time could lead to a reduction in the courts that remain. Now we have sent out a proposal at the hearing. There we ask for feedback from those who believe anything about this. In this case, there are many shared opinions. I'm sure the representative's familiar with this. It has been since the last government also began to propose centralising the courts. I look forward to having a good process carried out, to having a hearing where the different views on this matter emerge, and then we will decide on the final structure after that. I would encourage the representative not to pre-conclusion, but rather to listen to the recordings that come to the hearing, as the government will do. Listening is something the previous government and the Right have been very bad about in this matter so far. Many courts have been set aside against local will. That's why I want to add up to a better process in this game.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e116	The starting point for the hearing note is full reversal, with some arguments that are quite incomprehensible. You can certainly find people who are for a reversal, but they are getting fewer and fewer. If you listen to some of those who were the strongest opponents, for example. Lawyer Trude Wold and Olav Eriksen from Finnsnes in Troms, they say that after the reform has been introduced, they have turned around. In an interview with the Vesterålen Online, Wold points out that they do not want any reversal. She says that both the benefits and the disadvantages of the reform were revealed, and there was a lot of turbulence around ambiguities, but that they are now cleared by the road. So why won't the Council of State give the courts and the actors time to adapt to the new structure that has already given positive results, instead of throwing the third state power into a chaotic process of new uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e121	The right created a huge chaos in this case with constant attempts to centralize the courts. It was rejected by Stortinget once before one has succeeded in bringing with it the Progress Party to implement the judicial reform to which the Right finally submitted. My goal has been to have this cleaned up as quickly as possible. I want a good and thorough process, and that is why I have put this proposal to the hearing for three months. After that, we will also make careful adjustments before making a final proposal. But it's important to me that we target this process as quickly as it can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e128	It will be opened for follow-up questions – first Ingunn Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e133	The cost of this is another important question. In line with the government's proposal, the starting point is full reversal. Then the cost will be high. New calculations, shared by the Court of Justice with the Department, show that there could be 65 million. SEK at one-off cost, 50 million. kr in annual additional costs, and it will be impossible to take out the efficiency potential identified by the Riksaudition in its report. According to their estimate, this represents approximately 103 million. kr per year, which means an increase of 35 million. SEK per year to potentially around 150 million. kr per year – money that should be spent on improving the quality of the court. I have asked written questions about how much it will cost to reverse in line with the government's proposal, but the Council of State will not provide new figures. So my question is, when the Council of State sits on new numbers about how much a reversal in line with the government's proposal costs: why won't she share these numbers with the Storting? Is it because the Council of State sees that the reversing party is gradually beginning to cost more than it tastes?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e140	I record that the Court of Justice has updated the cost estimates that the first people gave us, and I have provided information in line with the estimates I have received. I would like to stress, as also mentioned in the hearing note, that this is a very uncertain estimate of costs. It is not yet clear how many people want to go back to the old structure and what costs will be. It will depend on what the final proposal will look like. So this is it too early to conclude with. But I also ask questions about how to take out what was said as an efficiency potential, if you are not going to move jobs or take out any premises that are currently in use. For me, it's important that we have a decentralised court structure, and I think it's worth spending money on, just like we spend money on having, for example. police present throughout the country, which is also important for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e145	Take Pettersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e150	The justice system is designed to protect the most vulnerable among us, namely the children, and the follow-up issue is therefore addressed to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The child’s best interests were strengthened when we adopted amendments to the Child Protection Act last year. The second paragraph of Section 104 of the Basic Law states that decisions concerning children must be of fundamental importance. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 3 establishes exactly the same thing. This also applies, of course, to the treatment of child-related cases by the courts. The government will now reverse the judicial reform, which has given strengthened professional environments and faster proceedings. The Stine Sofies Foundation was out in the VG yesterday and stated that the reversal would be at the expense of legal certainty for children, and the Children’s Ombudsman has also clearly expressed the same. How can the National Council of Children and the Chief Child Protection Officer in Norway support a change that will obviously hit the children most?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e162	As the Council of State for the Children, I support the proposal for reversal, precisely because reversal should not be at the expense of children's legal security. If a reading is done, it is very clear that child-disciplinary knowledge and competence should be ensured, and that is what is important. Nor is it the case that one has poor pediatric competence in the courts that have been and that there has been a distinction between large and small. We're looking at EMD judges -- a part of them can go back to big things -- so it's a simplification to make a distinction between big and small things. We're going to gain a good pediatric competence in the District Courts that follow this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e169	Take Pettersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e174	The need for pediatric competence in the courts was highlighted in 2019 as particularly important by, among other things. The Children's Ombudsman, the Stine Sofie Foundation and the Central Unit for Children's Protection and Social Affairs, in the hearings on new structures. The Children’s Ombudsman points out that children’s matters are very difficult and complicated, and that these matters require a wider professional environment in the courts. Norway’s human rights institution is clear that it will more effectively ensure the practical implementation of the best interests of the child and the right of the child to be heard, and that judges in cases under the Children’s Act and the Child Protection Act have particular child-care skills. The fact that the centre party suffers from this reversal agenda is nothing new. But as a government, you should listen to the professional environments and recordings you get, and no one has a worse time than a child living in a difficult family situation. That is why I would like to ask again: is the Council of State here more concerned with the matters of district or the programme of the Central Party than with the legal certainty of the children, which is really important in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e181	It is difficult to answer the question if the representative does not listen to what I have to say. If it had been such a way that a person could automatically set a similarity between a great thing and a good professional environment, and small things and a bad professional environment, things would have been different – but that's not the case. We have to work for the quality and child-care skills of the structure we have, and as I said, it has examples of things with poor child-care assessments also in the large district courts. So this isn't as simple as Right like to make it. It is extremely important for the government to strengthen child-care skills. Then we can also look at the education of those who are going to become judges, that a focus on the competence of children throughout the course. There is a much greater bet than just structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e188	Take Pettersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e193	I am absolutely listening to the answers from the Council of State, but the interesting thing here is whether the Council of State and the government are listening to the recordings they get from the trade unions out there. In this reply, I have already mentioned three to four of those who are concerned about the very competence of the courts and who are just highlighting the positive nature of the structure implemented, which focuses on the best of the child in these assessments. So the important and correct question here is whether the government actually listens to the professional environments that are concerned about what the government is now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e198	You have not adopted a new reform yet. We've actually sent out a call proposal, and it's just to listen to the recordings. It is clear that we – and I – are going to listen to and watch the audio recordings we are getting, and then everyone gets to come back with their sayings. But in the listener's draft that came out, I found it quite clear that it is very strongly underlined that the child's professional competence and knowledge should be guaranteed and taken care of in a new structure. It's absolutely fundamental, and especially after the experience we have with EMD rulings in child protection, which also contained a criticism of the decision-making basis in the courts when it comes to child protection matters. That's what we're about to strengthen, and of course, a new structure of District Courts should also last.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e203	Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e208	My supplementary question goes to the Minister of Justice. I thought that when the letter of hearing on the reversal of the judicial reform came, I would be wiser in how that decision-making process was to take place. I didn't. We still don't know if it's enough for one municipality to veto, if a single trustee can overturn an entire courtship's desire to maintain the reform. Then it's a problem in itself that the municipalities should be involved and decide this. This has nothing to do with municipal autonomy, and it is contrary to the principle that the Court should be independent of political power. Municipalities are party to so many cases before the courts that one should be very careful to involve municipalities in such a decision regarding the courts. Why does the Minister believe that municipalities should be involved in that process, and does she see that it may be problematic against the principle of an independent court?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e219	Unlike the Left, this government believes it is important to listen to recordings from different parts of society. The municipalities are also people who know a lot about how local conditions are and how they work, and what role the courts play in it. Then I would like to stress that it is a political question to decide what the court structure should be. It is perfectly legitimate to focus on local interests and to listen to what the municipalities think about it. All courts and all judges are independent, as it is among others. is presented by the Constitution. It's something other than what we're now discussing. Now we are discussing the organisation of the courts and the structure of the courts, and then we have to make comprehensive assessments where the municipalities also have the right to express their views. It's an open hearing, which means that anyone can express themselves, and we'll go through the answers we get at the hearing, and make comprehensive assessments on the basis of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e224	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e230	My question goes to the Minister of Justice and Security. Last December, the European Commission presented a new proposal for a border regulation. The border regulation regulates the Member States of the Schengen internal control over their own borders and the external border of Schengen cooperation. In particular, it is the new proposal’s regulation of internal border controls, the sovereignty of national states across their own borders in the context of Schengen cooperation, which represents a new course, towards a weakened right of self-determination for their own borders for the Member States. The EU has for a long time been negative to the internal border controls of the Member States in Schengen. A proposal that would have removed this possibility by far was presented by the Commission in 2017, but that proposal was fortunately adopted by the Council. The new proposal for a regulation takes over this defeat by replacing it with an internal border control procedure, and the new proposal includes, inter alia, the following: stricter documentation requirements and requirements for the assessment of alternative instruments. The new proposal will make it more time-consuming and labour-intensive for the Member States with internal border controls and thus seeks to achieve the same objective as the previously agreed proposal, but now with other instruments. Does the Council of State see that the new proposal for a border regulation presented by the Commission last December, which is now being consulted, would weaken Norway's right to self-determination beyond its own borders by weakening, or making it more difficult, the possibility of having national border control over other Schengen co-operation countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e241	Yes, this is a proposal that is now being consulted, which we are considering, and on which there is a lot of discussion in Europe. My approach to these questions is that we must preserve Norwegian action spaces across our own borders. Norway must be clear about this. So this is not a proposal that has been finally adopted, and we have to use the possibilities we have to influence the final design of the proposal in the direction we want. For this government, it is important that we have good cooperation with other countries, both in Europe and beyond, and that we have a Schengen cooperation that enables us to have control at our own borders to the extent that we need what we have today, and also that we have security that the external borders of Schengen are safeguarded in such a way that we do not have negative consequences, for example. secondary migration within the Schengen area. Once again, these are things that we want to include in the further process around these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e250	The EU has long been critical of the practice of internal border control by Member States. Such internal border controls, according to the EU, should only occur exceptionally, as the basic concept of Schengen cooperation is so-called free flow across the borders of the Member States. It has been found through the first proposal, which fortunately was voted down. But now, as the Council of State also points to, there is a new proposal, which, if it becomes a reality, will limit Norway’s right of self-determination, which I believe is confirmed by the Council of State. Can the Council of State therefore guarantee that Norway will not give up one millimetre of sovereignty as regards control over national borders, and will it therefore reject the new proposal for a border regulation, as it stands on the table now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e255	I do not believe that the proposal, as it is on the table now, is good, and I have expressed it in such a way that it will be our approach to the further process. We are bound by Schengen cooperation, so we depend on reaching agreement on something that is better. My view of this is that Norway must take care of national space for action and promote it as an important element in these processes, and there I feel that I have common interests with the representative. We have to get back to this when the process has come further. This is, as the representative has pointed out, a proposal which was sent out at the hearing in December, and which is now being worked on in Europe, also from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e260	It will be opened for follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e265	There have been several recent issues that have challenged Norwegian self-determination and that have created debate. It's about rail, it's about mail, it's about energy – to mention something. It is particularly critical that a country such as Norway has control and autonomy over societally critical areas such as energy and infrastructure, and control of the national border is at least no less important than just these. That's perhaps the most important thing we need to have national self-control over. As I see it, she agrees that the proposal that is on the table now challenges Norwegian sovereignty, but at the same time she does not exclude that we in Norway will agree to this regulation, take it over us and practice it. Do we now have to be prepared with the Central Party in government that national control in these important areas is in the process of weakening, and that power is increasingly left to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e270	No, not because the Central Party is in government. As the representative is well aware, the Progress Party has also been in government for many years where we have been bound by Schengen cooperation, and we have Dublin cooperation in the area of migration. Then our task is to take care of Norwegian positions and secure Norwegian action spaces in the discussions that are taking place on the revision of the legislation we are already bound by. I have made it clear that we want solutions that provide Norwegian space for action. We've seen in recent years how important it has been to be able to put in place border controls, as we've done. We've had it because of pandemic. It may be relevant due to other types of threats to society. It's my ambition to keep it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e275	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e280	I understand that the Council of State confirms my description, namely that the new border regulation as it is on the table will weaken Norwegian autonomy. During the period 2015-2022, we made use of access to internal border controls in the Schengen area on several occasions. This was necessary in order to ensure Norwegian safety, with varying threat images in force during that period. It is therefore natural to ask: if the new proposal for a regulation had been in force during this period, would it have deprived us of the possibility of securing Norwegian society and securing Norwegian citizens by controlling what is crossing our own borders? If the new proposal for a regulation – which I fear becomes a reality – had been in force in 2015-2022, does the Council believe that the new rules would at any time have prevented or impeded the introduction or extension of national border control, which we had on several occasions during this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e287	It's a proposal, which it's too early to take a final position. It's also very hypothetical to try out a prediction of how this might have worked, back in time. What is important now, and which is in my future focus, is to preserve Norwegian space of action and promote a desire that we will, in the forums where it is right to do so. I think that the representative should be pleased, and I hope and believe that he himself would have done so if it was still the Progress Party that put in government. Here are some international commitments that have been lifted up in Norway, regardless of who is in the government offices. Now that there is a government with the Center Party and the Workers' Party, Norwegian action rooms and the ability to have border control when necessary – that is important to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e294	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e300	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. It's obvious that sex should be voluntary. If it's not voluntary, it's a rape. Our law must reflect that. That is why we were happy in SV when the government wrote in the Hurdal platform that they would propose a consent. Time is overdue for Norway to join the European consenting country club. The trend is clear: countries by country are changing and updating their legislation on rape, and there is nothing new. In 1999, Canada introduced a consent law, in 2003, England introduced a consent law, in 2009, Scotland introduced a consent law, in 2017 Malta adopted a consent law, in 2018 Sweden and Iceland adopted a consent law, in 2019 Greece and Croatia adopted a consent law, in 2020 Denmark adopted a consent law, and in 2021 Slovenia adopted a consent law. Now let's write 2022. Then I'd like to ask the Minister: What year do we have to write before the government makes a proposal for consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e311	And in 2021, the new government, with the Central Party and the Workers' Party, went in to give us a consent in Norway. But I am concerned that all changes to the penal code, and in particular to sexual offences, must be made in the light of thorough legal work. It is both those who are accused, and those who are victims in these matters, who have earned, because it protects us from making changes that may have unintended consequences. I think it is very good that we have come there that we have a government that wants to introduce a consent. There's been a lot of commitment to this in public in recent years, and I think it's right that we do it too. At the same time, we cannot compare directly with all the countries that have been affected by the representative. They have had a little different arrangements on their laws before they updated this and introduced what is now considered consent laws. As far as I know, I had e.g. not a criminalisation of grossly negligent rape, which Norway has today, before obtaining consent. When we're going to work on this, we're not just going to look at what's going on with the rape rule itself, which is often mentioned. We also want to go through the entire chapter on sexual offences in criminal law. That is why the Criminal Felony Council has been given a mandate to do so. It's important because many of these are related. There may be borderline cases in different cases. It is important that we get a law that protects against rape, exploitation and other types of sexual offences. They will present their position on 15 December, and then we will come back with a legal work after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e320	It's true, as the minister says, that this is a major social problem. It's so big that it's hard to understand. In terms of figures from the National Knowledge Centre for Violence and Traumatic Stress from 2014, the result is that one in ten Norwegian women are subjected to rape during life — almost half before they reach the age of 18. There are so many that it's hard to put words on it. In Oslo, there are nearly 35,000 people. There are more people than there are in cities like Hamar, Gjøvik and Molde. Norway was already criticised by the UN Women’s Committee in 2012 because we did not have a consent. The centre party is one of the few parties that have not programmed a wish for consent. Will the Council of State guarantee that a consent will be given priority by the Ministry of Justice and Defence when the suspension by the Council of Criminal Felons comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e329	Yes, as I said, there is already a review of these provisions. Then we have to see what the Criminal Felony Council makes as a recommendation, but it is clear that I will give priority to the work to follow up that recommendation after that. I think it's too much of a challenge to sexual abuse in society, which I'm sure the representative agrees with, and to which he has pointed out. There are many who are desperate because they feel that they are not being seen by the system. I want to do something about this, and both legal work and a number of other things are important to prevent sexual abuse in society. We also have to bear in mind that a change in the wording of the penal code will not, for example, be possible. address the strict evidence requirements in criminal proceedings. It's a challenge that will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e334	It will be opened for follow-up questions – first Andreas Shelg Unneland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e339	Now I was not reassured by the Minister's reply, because people expect the government to make a proposal on this. The Hurdal platform states that a proposal for consent should be examined and promoted. Now, and on previous questions, the Minister of Justice has replied that when the investigation comes in December 2022, the government will have a good basis for ‘assessing’ changes in the criminal order for rape. So here we have to clear all the doubts of the path: is the government just going to assess, or are they actually going to propose a consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e347	I think it's absolutely right to wait for an investigation when we've given such an important assignment to the Criminal Felony Council, which has a very high level of competence on this, before we decide exactly how we're going to arrange the way forward. However, we have established in the Hurdal platform that we should make proposals for consent. So far, there has also been a disagreement about what is a consenting law. You can sometimes get the impression that you're allowed to have sex with someone against their will, if you just follow the public debate. It is important for me to make it quite clear that this is not the case. It's criminalized in Norway today. Roughly negligent rape is criminalized, and we must not create the impression that things that are actually illegal are legal. We're doing a thorough job on this, and I think that's quite right, because this is going to be done at the other end, and then we have to make sure that the law is done in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e352	Andreas Shelg Unneland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e357	But people are concerned that the law has to become clearer in this area. In a study conducted by Amnesty, 74 pst responded. by women that they believe that the penal code must clearly confirm that rape is sexual intercourse without consent. At the same time as that study was presented, the then representative, Enger Mehl, commented on the proposal for consent as a purely symbolic policy, unforeseeable, and that it might turn out unlucky. But it has been pointed out to Sweden, where, after the introduction of consent, it was 75 pst. multiple convictions, the number of reviews increased by 21 pst, and the number of appeals increased by 80 pst. Does the Minister of Justice still believe that consent is a purely symbolic policy, or has the Minister personally changed his view of the need for consent?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e362	I am still in the process of making changes to the penal code after a thorough investigation. That's why it was, for example. not so that I supported a proposal proposed by SV in Stortinget during the previous period, because I believe it is wrong to deal with legislative changes in the penal code in Document 8 proposals, promoted in this way. It is probably in that connection that I have made those statements. That's also why I think it's important to do a thorough legal work before we make any new changes. The disagreement between us now is really going on in the time frame. I see the representative as being impatient, and I understand that, because it is a great desire to make these changes. I think it is right to let the Criminal Court work and make complete changes that also include the other provisions on sexual offences, so that we ensure that there is no rightful hole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e367	Andreas Shelg Unneland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e373	It is quite right that one disagrees with the timing, and SV promoted as one of its first proposals in this session just that we should get a proposal for consent during the spring of 2022. However, there is clearly more to which we disagree and to which I should like the Minister to be able to give a clear answer. Does the Minister still believe that a consent law is pure symbolism, or does it actually have something to say to ensure – as it is today – that 99 out of 100 rapists do not lead to a criminal reaction? Would a consent permit have anything to say to ensure that the statutory provisions on rape will be better enforced?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e378	It is one of the questions that I am pleased to see that the Council of Persecution will explain in more detail what effect this could actually have. What I have been concerned about up until now – and to the extent that remains – is that one cannot believe that by changing the wording of this provision, the problem of the difficulty of getting a judgment in rape cases disappears. The evidence situation is often demanding and unbridled. Many of these cases are, unfortunately, felonies, where there are very young people, there is a lot of alcohol, there is no one else present, and where it is difficult to obtain the evidence that is, quite rightly, in criminal proceedings to ensure that no one who is innocent is convicted. I am also concerned that we are addressing those challenges, and there are, for example: police prevention, talking to young people about borders and border crossings, working against children and young people, also very important. So everything doesn't solve with a change of laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e383	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e388	In the newspaper a short time ago, an interview with Espen Barth Eide was interesting. It was about the electricity price crisis and the views of the Council of State on both the production and distribution of energy. The title was about that unforeseeable power prices are not something to be trodden away, and that is absolutely correct. Nor is it black magic, what Red proposes; it is politics. It is to intervene and regulate the market with a maximum price. Bart Eide is asked in the interview about the maximum price of electricity. Then the Council of State says: ‘I think it’s important not to take away incentives for more rational use of electricity’. [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘Then it is important that we use the current wisely and not waste it.’ So far so good! But in winter, power consumption did not go down despite sky-high electricity prices. It went up. The reason is that electricity is not a luxury product; it is a necessity, which varies primarily with temperature. If it gets cold, the power consumption goes up, because we heat up our homes with electricity, mostly, in our country. I wonder if the Council of State can elaborate on what he said to the Newspaper, where it is suggested that a maximum price will take away incentives for a more rational use of electricity, all the time it proves to be such that the electricity consumption in Norway primarily varies with the temperature.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e407	I thank you for a good question from the representative of Moxnes, whom I seem to have reproduced in an exemplary way. I believe that this is both correct and wise. It's important that we all take on the fact that electricity never becomes unlimited, and we have to learn to use it as efficiently as possible. That's why I'm for example. Happy that Enova today announces another new measure to make it easier for most people around the country to install solar panels and advanced power management, and to get substantial support for it – which can bring down the power consumption without the comfort on the inside of the house going down. That's why I'm also very happy that the power-intensive industry is becoming increasingly good at using the power in a rational way. If the flow had been free or had cost almost nothing, none of those measures would have happened. So obviously it's right that it's important that you don't waste electricity. We're going to need power to a lot. Even in Norway, almost half of energy use remains fossil. That number has to go down to zero. The answer to that is more power generation and more rational use of electricity. The representative Moxnes and I agree that the high power prices, which have been shocking and dramatic for very many people, have to be taken into account. Therefore, I am very proud that the government has made a proposal that many professionals have thought was very good, namely that you refund 80 pst. of the cost of the flow when it exceeds 70 cents, according to the model fully entering the January bill. I think that is a good distribution policy response to a problem that is objectively out there, namely that in an increasingly renewable energy world, the raw material price of electricity will go down both to zero and very high over the year, depending on changing weather conditions. You might be sorry about that, but you can't magic out of physics.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e416	I just want to remind you that we don't go in for a zero price of power. We proposed 35 cents per kilowatt hour. The electricity price was on average 33 øre per kilowatt hour from 2010 to 2020. The cost of production is, as we all know, 11.57 cents for 2022, according to the department. So we're adding the maximum price to the three-timer of it-- not the hundred-timer, as it's been examples of throughout the year. What I can see is that the Council of State confirms that power consumption varies primarily with temperature and that it is not a luxury product. It's good that we agree on that. In the case of power savings, it is a problem that Enova does not pay out all that is included in energy efficiency improvement measures. Over 150 million. NOK that was earmarked for action, did not go to households in 2021. How will the Council of State ensure that everything that is consumed also goes back to energy saving measures in households?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e425	I am pleased with that question too, because it is actually linked to my field, while the previous question was related to the field of the Minister of Oil and Energy, but we are well coordinated on this. With regard to the Enova measures, I was in contact with the Enova boss, Nils Kristian Nakstad, as late as yesterday. We talked about these things, including: with the launch of this scheme, which I think will be very good for very many people. It will make it much more accessible to all people who live in houses or who have access to a slightly larger area, to install solar cells and then get a more predictable and lower power bill. At the same time, it will reduce the need for power so that power can be used for other sensible things, such as: power-intensive industry. That's part of the answer to that representative Moxne's question. I think Enova should spend the money they get for reasonable measures. But since this is a long-term allocation, all of the heads are still there. What people didn't apply for last year is available today, at the top of what's been granted this year. In other words, the good news is that it's more to pick up from Enova for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e434	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e439	I am pleased that the Council of State answers several questions about electricity as the Council of State itself expressed itself in an interesting way in the Newspaper – about both the power generation and the distribution of electricity and what happens to the electricity prices in a liberalised, stock-based and EU-regulated free trade system. On that occasion, and with the background of that interview, I would like to challenge the Council of State to give its view of what we are reading in today's Class Fight about one of the major local teams in the Workers' Party in Trondheim. They have decided that the government should renegotiate the agreements with the UK and the EU, to look at electrification of the socket forcefully from land and not least redefine energy production and distribution as basic social infrastructure in line with road, water and sewerage. Does Barth Eide have any view of what has been adopted in Nidaros by the local team in the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e444	The agreements the representative is talking about are not with the EU, although the representative Moxnes would probably like to see them. These are agreements concluded with the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom respectively, which, as you know, are not a member of the EU. These are bilateral agreements between countries. The basis for them was laid by the red-green government when Ola Borten Moe was Minister of Energy, and based on a very broad agreement that we should have exchange cooperation with other countries. With regard to the content of any negotiations on the details of the agreements we already have, I think it is right that the Minister of Energy should respond, but on a general basis, I would say that Norway has made good use of and insisted that we have had exchanges – first in Nordic and then in North European cooperation – for many years. If you look at this over the 30-year period that has passed since it was introduced in 1991, I think the sum is that this has essentially served us well. Then we have to deal with the tops we see, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e449	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e455	The new thing is the connection to completely different and much larger price ranges, just England and Germany – something quite different from what we've had, also much larger cables with larger capacity than we've had in the past. Using a power-exchange situation for other low-capacity pricing areas as an argument for an enormous export capacity situation for other price ranges at much higher prices is a logical flaw that most people have gradually experienced. Interestingly, in the letter on cable concession, the ministry wrote very clearly that concession decisions can be converted if the conditions for the decision change significantly. So it can be justified in general terms, so this is where the Borten Moe and the previous Red-Green government put a useful passage into the cable letter, in order to make sure that there were big and important changes in the assumptions. Does the Council of State agree that this is still the basis, that if conditions change significantly?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e462	The President notes that the Council of State has so far been able to answer questions that are outside his constitutional area, but the Council of State will have the opportunity to answer if the Council of State so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e467	First, I want to thank the President for the important point, because it's become a certain tradition that when I get into this questioning, I get questions to another Council of State. I would encourage Moxnes to take the same questions with the oil and energy minister when she had to be here, because she also shows up at regular intervals in the Questionnaire. What is contained in the agreements is, of course, in the agreements. It will of course be part of the work to look at the whole of this also to look at the content of the agreements concluded many years ago, which are thus completely unaffected by the discussions on the third EU market package. It has no connection with it, for this is bilateral agreements between the two countries mentioned. The Minister of Energy will obviously look at that. But it's simply not exactly the right history that this is qualitatively new. That's right about the United Kingdom. That is why I am pleased that we were able to stop the NorthConnect cable – on the initiative of, among other things. The Labour Party in the last period – but connection to the continent we have had for a long time. We have had a cable to the United Kingdom and four to Denmark, which is again closely connected to Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e474	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e479	The high electricity prices now need to be dealt with with with targeted measures for those who have difficulties, while at the same time thinking about what is needed in the long term. I have to say, also related to questions earlier in this Questionnaire, that I am very pleased with the cooperation we have with Europe in terms of climate and other areas, and the EEA cooperation we have. We need to bet on an additional measure, but we also need to produce more renewable energy. Then, floating sea winds and sea winds are an important part of this, in order to reduce emissions on the base, but also to be involved in cooperation towards Europe. What many say, and that is a fact, is that the foreign tables and also an additional hybrid cable will have little to say for the electricity price in Norway, but it will have a great impact on the development of the Norwegian sea wind industry and on the possibility to reduce emissions here and not least on the base. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State agree that we need to develop this cooperation with Europe, with several hybrid cables also in order to achieve both our and their climate goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e486	So we are continuing in the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy today. The government is currently working to provide a good answer to the question of how to achieve a rapid and efficient expansion of sea wind, both to build a marine wind industry and to ensure that we get more power into our power system – that is, a power system that is already integrated in both Nordic and Northern Europe from 30 years ago – and how we can use part of the extra power to electrify the base. We need to electrify the socket in order to reduce climate change emissions, but also because to the extent that it will still be a gas market, the EU will increasingly impose stricter requirements on how that gas has become, with the lowest possible emissions, and that is also an argument for electrifying and not stealing electricity from countries that have the most energy available with wind power. It's like the main goals, and then the question is what kind of network structure we have, which the government will come back to in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e493	The next main question is from the representative Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e498	The Council of State said that the Minister of Oil and Energy is in the Question Time from time to time. Well, as far as I know, she hasn't been, and that's probably why the Council of State gets a lot of questions that are in the frontier between the two portfolios, because this is related. On several occasions, the Council of State has promoted sea wind as an important climate action, and it is therefore not unnatural for him to ask questions about it. In an interview with Energy and Climate on 22 January, we can read that the Minister for Climate and Environment is concerned that Norway is not associated with the EU's commitment to bringing climate change to green jobs, and the Council of State specifically mentions sea wind. The right-hand side shares this concern. The Solberg government's plan was to illuminate the area of Utsira Nord at the turn of the year 2021/2022 and during the first quarter of Southern North Sea II. Now it seems that disunity between the government parties contributes to the timely shifting of sea wind and the scaling down of the sea, a significant reduction in green jobs, and that this important climate action, which has often been highlighted by the Council of State, is weakening. In Political Quarter this week we could hear the Western Council say that the government has done more for sea wind in the last 100 days than the previous government did in 100 months. The question to the Council of State is then whether the Council of State can clarify what the government has done for sea wind in the last 100 days, in concrete terms, as well as delaying the bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e509	First of all, I would like to express my joy at the fact that the Storting is very much following up on my statements in the media and reflecting me well and correctly. I fully agree that, first of all, it is imperative for this House and for us as governments to take over the power of the transition that is now taking place in Europe. The greening of Europe is, in fact, the world's leading factor in concreteising the objectives of the Paris Agreement and incorporating them into all sectors. Then we talk about all social sectors; energy, industry, transport, agriculture and the whole package. We come back with a lot of things in the years that come up with that question. In the case of sea wind, it is pointed out in the Political Quarter – where he gave an excellent lecture on this – that we have now worked until it is as if very short time is being presented as the answer to the questions that both the representative Astrup and previous questions in the Question Time have gone on: How can we quickly get into place the area of sea window construction? How can we quickly get good processes into good coordination structures against other growing industries at sea? How can we ensure that we get networks that support this? How can we ensure that this is used to raise the Norwegian power-intensive industry? How do we get more power in the Norwegian power system? So the oil and energy minister, to whom I must be allowed to refer, will come back to the Stortinget in the near future – and when I say ‘near future’, I mean in it everyone will understand as near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e518	I understand that the answer to the Council of State is that it is based on the work that the previous government did, and that nothing new and concrete has been brought forward in the last 100 days that tops the foundation that was laid for the sea wind bet under the previous government, among other things. the development of the world's largest sea wind farm, Hywind Tampen, floating as it is now under construction. As I said, the area should have been lit out already, according to our plan. The Council of State has also previously, when he was a representative of big business, called for us to connect to Europe through cables to other countries, and he promoted a representative proposal together with the current Prime Minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, on that, where the point was to be able to sell as much power as possible to Europe. The question is, in the light of the current discussions between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, is there something on which the Council of State stands?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e525	The president notices that we are constantly moving in the border between different constitutional areas, but be so good, Councillor Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e531	I thank you again for the President's contribution to reminding us that we have organized the government in different departments with different constitutional responsibilities, and that we may, in particular, in the Great Britain to the advantage of keeping relatively close to them. It is right, as the representative of Astrup says, that this is also linked to the broader climate perspectives, so I still choose to say something about it, but I do not intend to advance what the Minister of Oil and Energy comes to Stortinget when the work that is now being done is in progress. It includes the very question that has now been asked by about all the respondents: What is happening on the network infrastructure? It is clear that it is a key issue in producing sea wind to obtain power for land, for the base and possibly for export, and in how we are going to lift the fact that we are getting a home industry for Norwegian sea wind. Then I want to stress again that Norway is connected to the outside world – with or without new cables, we have 17-18 cables that connect us to all the countries around us, literally, and many of them have been there for many years. So more power generation in Norway is, in any case, part of the power system in which we are deeply integrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e540	There will be follow-up questions – Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e545	The answer to the Council of State shows that the guarantee that the Central Party has issued to its voters that there will be no hybrid cables in any case, we can cancel because this is something that the government has to investigate. Is it correctly understood that there can be hybrid cables with this government, even though the Central Party has guaranteed to its voters that it won't?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e550	We are clearly outside the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, but the Council of State will have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e555	Yeah, I think almost have to say that. I don't think the representative Astrup will get another answer if he asks several times about the same thing. I also want to warn all parties, really, in this discussion against doing the big question of one of the most important energy sources in the future, which can really be a game changer in terms of speeding up renewable energy, and which can give an industrial volume to the shoreyards that have built oil and gas rigs and installations until now, solely to a question of which way the cables go, and when they go where, for this is part of a large and complete image. I am very sure that my excellent colleague in the Ministry of Oil and Energy – supported by an overall government – will come back with good answers to both these questions and the questions that Moxnes and a number of others were in this round of the Questionnaire, which should have been reserved for another government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e560	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e565	My question goes to the Consumer Minister. The electricity price has hit many consumers hard, and the electricity market has for a long time been characterised by the existence of very many contracts from nearly a hundred power suppliers. Do not misunderstand – competition is good. The problem, however, is that many consumers find it difficult to choose correctly and have poor electricity contracts. Many power suppliers also go a long way in offering consumers what I might characterise as miserable contracts. One example is how Hafslund and Fjordkraft have sued the state to continue to sell agreements that NVE stamp as complex and unbridled. Yesterday the Consumer Council announced that in 2021 they had a triple in requests for electricity. It is clear that increased electricity prices show that the electricity market is not particularly consumer friendly. Yesterday, the Council of State also answered my written question about what happens to the impact of the Progress Party on simplification for consumers. That's good. However, the Hurdal platform states that the government promises to design more powerful measures to strengthen consumer rights. Then I wonder, what will the Council of State do to strengthen consumer rights in the electricity market when it is clear that this is such a big problem for many people out there in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e574	Thank you for the question. It's a problem that very many people are concerned about, and that's an important consumer policy issue. As the representative said, the government in the Hurdal platform states that we want to strengthen consumer rights as an action in the field of power market policy. When the representative asks what the government is doing, I will first refer to the work that the Consumer Protection Authority has done. They have also increased their efforts towards the electricity market. They have called for changes in the terms of the contract of the company, and they have reduced marketing. It is extremely important for the Consumer Protection Authority to do that job and increase its efforts – and I will ensure that they do so. I would also like to refer to the Consumer Council, which has also made a great effort to obtain these bad agreements. We do a job in the department, which I also wrote in the written reply to the representative, among other things. in the light of the decisions made in the Stortinge in ours. There is now work in cooperation between my ministry and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, together with the Energy Regulatory Authority and the Consumer Authority, to bring up the concrete regulatory changes that are needed to give us a lighter system for consumers to stick to when it comes to power contracts and price comparison. This is a priority work in the ministry, and the high power costs have made it extra important to get this done more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e583	Thanks for the answer. It is fine for the Minister to bring forward the supervision, but when consumers do not agree with the electricity supplier, they can file a complaint for Elklagen subject. Consumer complaints are important to ensure that consumers can receive a complaint and be heard. In Norway, it is likely that around 20 cases deal with around 20,000 complaints per year and provide consumers with a free out-of-court complaint offer. However, the denominators often have long waiting times, they have different processing systems, unsafe sources of funding, etc., and there is reason to believe that the current crisis can now also put additional pressure on, for example: The subject of each case. Will the Council of State take action to secure consumers' complaints subjects that function as intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e588	It is clear that the complaints must work, and I can answer yes to the question – I will see that. We are probably quite certain that this is important, and perhaps especially in this situation, where one will be able to assume that there can be more complaints, and that this complaint mechanism must then work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e593	There will be follow-up questions – first Silje Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e599	I thank you again for the answer. However, as power prices now rise, more and more problems are involved in paying their electricity bill, and with the electricity prices we have seen this winter, it is unfortunately likely that this will affect more people. Some people simply have to choose between clothes for their children, food on the table or power. At the same time, we know that the network companies have a legal opportunity to close the power to people who do not pay. This should not happen in winter, but it is nevertheless a very interventional measure. In comparison, for example: the municipalities do not close the water if people do not pay, but have to secure payment in other ways. So I wonder: Will the Council consider removing the possibility for online companies to close the electricity for households with payment problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e608	Thank you again for the question. The government has now taken very many measures to prevent the risk, among other things. with the increase in household electricity, and one has reduced the electricity charge, increased the bus pay and transferred more money to municipalities to secure social assistance, etc. But the question that was about the power companies being able to cut the current: My and the oil and energy ministers have met with the power companies about this, and the cooperation with them has given us a good understanding that something is not going to happen, and that in those cases where there is no ability to pay, one must have a very good cooperation with Nav. That's the way you're going to avoid anyone experiencing it, and we've brought that up at a meeting with the power company.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e615	Silje Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e620	Thank you for that. I will not try to cross over in other areas, as many others have done, but there is no doubt that the Minister of Consumers' Government's colleague, who is now going to set up an Energy Commission to identify energy needs and propose increased energy production, with the aim that Norway will continue to have a surplus production of power, also having an important role here. It's obvious that most people also need to be heard in this commission. Norwegian houses and homes are heavily dependent on electricity, and Norwegian families are vulnerable to the fluctuations and the high electricity prices that we are now seeing. Responsible for consumer policy: will the Council of State ensure that consumer interests become part of the objective of the Energy Commission and that consumer interests are represented in the Commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e627	The Energy Commission is not my responsibility, so I don't want to answer that. But I always want to make sure that the voice of consumer interests comes to light in such a work, and in any case such a NOW will also come to mind. So in the process that is – and the power market and energy is an important consumer responsibility – I can promise the representative that I will follow along and ensure that the voice of consumer interests is heard and joins in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e632	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e637	The high electricity prices in winter are of great concern. They hit very unevenly, and we see that there are many who are struggling. The government has made different arrangements, but even after them many households, non-governmental organisations and enterprises are struggling. The government has refused to repay funds to non-governmental organisations that have chosen to organise themselves as such for various reasons. an AS, or to higher education institutions, health schools, the Norwegian Church, small and medium-sized enterprises – and I could still have that. The Christian People's Party has proposed a temporary maximum price of 50 øre per kWh over the winter. It would have hit absolutely everyone, and one would have avoided that the different households or organisations and businesses that are now struggling had had it so tough. In addition, we would also curb the increasing scepticism of climate action. Norway has ambitious targets to cut climate emissions by up to 55 pst. by 2030. Then we have to carry out many different cuts, even more demanding ones. This will mean that both we and the countries around us must continue to facilitate renewable energy. It'll cost you. In particular, we see it when big countries start and were not exactly playing completely on track, like this winter. The state of Norway makes large sums of money on the high electricity prices it gives, while people feel that they have to take the bill for the green shift. I also noticed the climate minister's statement in the Newspaper that a certain high price is necessary for people to save electricity. I disagree with that statement; for example. a maximum price of 50 cents, and including different charges, there will be many incentives to continue saving electricity. Does the Minister for Climate Change see that the lack of response to the power crisis could weaken the resistance to implementing the absolutely necessary climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e648	As I have shown in various previous answers, I believe that the power prices have been extremely high this winter, and it is very important that we have good policy responses in the acute situation we are facing. I believe the government has signed it out and spends billions of dollars – which is correctly taken from the profits we get because we sell energy, and very much of that energy, or practically everything, is state or municipal owned – through a system where you get back 80 pst. of the excess over 70 cents. My statement was on a general basis. It wasn't a statement about a certain right price level, it was just a reminder that it's okay in this debate to remember that the flow should preferably not be free either, because it's actually that we have to have the ability to prioritize. It can help us, but so must the big community and the community, in particular as regards consumers and not least non-governmental organisations, and especially affected ones. There are a number of different arrangements which are at least not my constitutional responsibility, but for which the various Councils are responsible, in addition to what the Minister for Oil and Energy has, just to meet it. So the long-term answer is not to delay the green shift, but to make it faster. Fortunately, this is also the attitude of the vast majority of my colleagues and of the Minister of Oil and Energy in other Nordic and European countries. We need to reduce our dependence on fossil energy faster, because what we see now is that as a function of the tense situation in Europe at the geopolitical level, gas prices are high because of limited access to gas that could have been in the market. Everyone knows where it could come from. This is an example of the fact that the dependence on fossil sources to produce power is too high, not too low, and therefore one has to do something about it by producing more and economics more.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e657	I do not disagree with the long-term analysis or to the extent that the analysis of the situation today, but I would warn the climate minister against thinking that this does not affect people's attitudes to implementing climate action. One looks at different facebook groups, actions, etc. where either households are frustrated by very high electricity prices, or for example. voluntary organisations and different enterprises are struggling because no power support has been provided. I am not going to go further in an area that is not necessarily the responsibility of the Minister of Climate Change, but what is the responsibility of the Minister of Faith is the Norwegian Church. There are different religious communities that have been notified that they will receive support, but about the Norwegian Church it has been stated that they will not receive support. So my question is simply: why should the Norwegian Church not receive support when the other religious communities are going to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e664	As I believe the representative knows well, we have received a trust and life-seeing law in Norway that states that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the operation of the Norwegian Church, i.e. the financial responsibility for church building and church administration. I think it is unfortunate if you give the impression that the municipalities do not have that responsibility. I have seen some suggestions that the representative has been out with. It is important that according to the laws, municipalities should have financial responsibility, and that also applies when prices are high. Local authorities have been given the means to take greater responsibility for the increase in prices. When it comes to the other belief and life-view societies, they come under the system of voluntary activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e671	Then the oral question hour is over, and we go to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e685	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will show in the context of the electronic question list in the salap. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Morten Stordalen to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport as the appropriate representative. Questions 4 and 5 from the respective representatives Marius Arion Nilsen and Sylvi Listhaug to the Minister of Finance have been transferred to the Minister of Oil and Energy as appropriate. Question 6, by Mr Olve Grotle to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Lene Westgaard-Halle to the Minister for Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as the appropriate representative. The question must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs is suffering from an illness. Question 8, from the representative of Ingerd Schou to the Minister for Development, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative Mr Schou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has a disease. Question 11, from the representative Turid Kristensen of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 14, from the representative Trond Helleland to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 17 from the representative of the Minister for Health and Welfare, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, has been withdrawn. Question 24, from the representative Roy Steffensen of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has a disease. Question 26, from the representative of Tobias Drevland Lund to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e718	This question is from the representative Helge André Njåstad to the Minister for Finance. The President cannot see that the Minister of Finance is present in the Chamber – there is the Minister of Finance in place, and then the President gives the floor to the representative Helge André Njåstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e723	It is nice that the Minister of Finance is in place to answer an important question about a matter that concerns many people a day, namely power prices and the desire to build up more power. My question is as follows: ‘Norway should expand more hydropower and ensure that existing hydropower can generate more generation. Then it is important that the tax authorities motivate for this. Today, if hydropower production exceeds 10 MW, the power plant will have to pay ground interest tax. Today, 17 hydropower plants have fallen just below this limit. Is it appropriate for the Council of State to consider schemes for the taxation of hydropower so that increased output does not have a negative tax impact on electricity producers?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e732	I didn't hear the bell when I was sitting in an office. I followed the TV screen, and then I heard suddenly that the president said the oral questioning was over. Then I thought I'd run a little bit, so I ran. It's probably good to get some energy by running in Stortingets times as well. Let me first make it very clear that electricity is a common good in Norway. Over time, the policy that has been in place has given us a low electricity price, it has been the Norwegian tradition, to the joy of people and businesses using power. Norway is cold and dark, and we depend on power. It is a goal for this government that we will also have reasonable Norwegian power in the future. It has also been stated by the government, unlike the previous government, which, at the beginning of its reigning period, stated that it was a measure of higher power prices, as former government councillor Tord Lien expressed through the media – he was concerned that the electricity prices were too low. The situation in the power market is exceptional, both in Norway and in the countries around us. Electricity prices have increased to very high levels and there has been a significant increase in electricity costs for both households, non-profit institutions and traders. The government has implemented comprehensive measures to remedy the acute situation at exceptionally high power prices this winter. In addition to the temporary insurance scheme for households, we have reduced the electricity charge by 47 pst. – after it was at record levels after the Progress Party had steered the charging policy for eight years. We have increased housing support, increased support for students, increased support for municipalities to cover increased payment of social assistance and increased support for anincreased action through Enova. We have also proposed our own support schemes for the agricultural and greenhouse industries and non-governmental organisations. In the longer term, we need to have many more measures. This government has been clear that we will not build any new inter-national connections, unlike the previous government, which amended the law in order to build more inter-national connections. We have also announced several measures, including: that we set down an energy commission, and we will work actively for more expansion of profitable power generation. We think it's important. The government will increase Norwegian hydropower production, including: by facilitating better maintenance, upgrade and renewal of existing hydropower plants. In the Hurdal platform, we say that the government parties will also provide more small power, and in this round, power plants with installed power below 10 MW. I can assure you that the government attaches great importance to access to clean and reasonable force. This work is highly prioritised. We want to facilitate more power generation, including: to mitigate the impact of high electricity prices in Norway. The government will come back to this issue in future government budgets. Appreciation of hydropower is one of the things we'll go into and look at what you can do to get even more expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e745	When one heard the answer from the council, one could almost believe that my question was whether he could tell about everything he didn't like with the previous government. It seemed as if he took the wrong fluke out of his pocket and read things that the previous government has done. I didn't ask any questions about what's behind us in time, I was looking forward – to get more water power produced, to make sure that the tax egg for hydropower was created so that we could produce the potential. When we see that a total of 17 projects are close to the limit, it tells us that they could produce more if the limits of the time that the base rate is applied had been set at a higher level. My question was whether the Council of State is looking at this, and I got two and a half minutes to find out what the previous government did and did not do, and then I was told that otherwise it would show one to the government budget. So I ask again, is this something that the Council of State is working on, and something that he intends to provide – that one should get a better tax regime for small hydroelectric power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e752	I understand that the representative Helge André Njåstad of the Progress Party does not want us to talk about what the Progress Party did in the eight years they put in power, because it was only a matter of getting the power prices up and not grabbing to get the power prices down. That's why it's so good that we've got a new government and a new oil and energy minister who has a different goal, just to get power prices down. We need that after a policy that has had the opposite objective. In the case of threshold values, that there is no rent tax below 10 MW, it was changed, from 5 MW to 10 MW. It shows the whole issue – with any new threshold you get that kind of adjustment. Getting around it is quite difficult if you want to have a bottom subtraction, to which the Storting wanted and joined, and to which both the Progress Party and the Center Party have also joined. That's the dilemma: if you set a lower or a higher threshold, what adjustments do you make? Of course, we have to constantly look at the possibilities of triggering that force, even if you have the kind of thresholds that are 10 MW.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e759	Once again, the Minister of Finance talks more about what has happened before. It's like a captain on a boat set out a course, and then one sails towards an event. Then it's the captain who's sitting on the bridge, who's responsible for adjusting the rate. I feel that one is more busy owing to the one who plotted the course on the map before, than actually adjusting the course. Now, on this government watch, we are experiencing these power prices, it's on this government's watch that we are experiencing this situation, and it's on this government's watch that we feel that we have a greater potential for water power than we can get out. Now the government described that there are always challenges with threshold values, but it is clear that one gets produced more power by raising those thresholds. That's what we're talking about: getting more water power, more water power, and simply producing more. I don't understand that the Council of State says this is something you're working on, so I ask you once again, is there an idea that the Council of State thinks is good, that you're looking at producing even more small water power by raising this threshold?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e766	I notice that the representative Njåstad describes the course that the Progress Party had worked out for its boat: to go straight on a cutting. I really agree that it was the course the Progress Party had gone. That's the one we're now trying to steer around and make new grips, but it's pretty heavy grips that have to be done, after the previous government plotted the wrong course on the map – right towards a cut. It was Njåstad's own description of his policy. In the case of threshold values: in a situation of high power prices, the main objective of the government is not to provide tax cuts to the power industry. That's not a goal for us. Our goal is to provide tax and tax relief to most people. So it's not that now, when the power prices are particularly high, it's even more important to give tax cuts to parts of the power industry. If it comes to installations over 10 MW, there are also installations that are very often in many hundreds of millions of millions of years of investment, and it is not your tax cuts. That is why, when we were going to give tax cuts, we prioritised cutting the electricity charge. We reduced it by 47 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e776	This question, from the representative of Morten Stordalen to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Transport as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e781	‘Throughout the pandemic, the Stortinget and the Progress Party have repeatedly ensured that the non-governmental airports Sandefjord airport Torp and Haugesund airport compensate for lost revenues from the pandemic. In retrospect, ESA has set considerable limits on payments as a result of seeing individual appropriations isolated for the different periods and not for the year as a whole. Will the Council of State follow up on the will of the Great Government and challenge ESA by looking at whether the space for action is larger than the ESA interpretation?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e788	The questions asked by Stordalen relate to appropriations for 2020. It was an overall committee which supported the allocation set aside to compensate the non-governmental airports for the loss of income resulting from the pandemic measures. The aid granted to the non-governmental operator at Haugesund Airport was administered by Avinor in 2020 and granted under Avinor’s budget. It is linked to the fact that the state-owned company Avinor owns the airport, but had stopped the operation of the private company Airport Operation AS. The aid to Haugesund was therefore completely independent of the periodical appropriations granted by Stortinget. For Torp's part, the appropriations came directly above the State budget. The size allocated its appropriations to specific periods. Ninety million. kr was granted for the period March to September and 30 million. kr was granted for the period October to December. The Norwegian authorities cannot provide more support than is lawful, and must, of course, deal with the ESA's leadership in the settlement of ex post allocations. In this way, the aid rules and the ESA shall ensure a level playing field between undertakings and industries. As the representative now asks the question, one can get the impression that the government is not doing anything to follow up the support that was limited to the two periods, that it can be settled together, in line with what Avinor has done for Haugesund. I am not familiar with this, because we have dialogue with ESA on this, and we are, of course, doing what is possible to ensure that the scope of action under the State aid rules is used in line with the priorities of the government and the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e801	I hear the answer to the Council of State, but then it is now such that at last it was a one-off big deal, after the Progress Party was a driver, precisely because the Solberg government did not deliver on what was really the intentions. Clearly, there are two different amounts given in two different ways. Both the Labour Party and the Centre Party – especially the Centre Party – have been very clear, even now as government parties, that it is necessary to challenge ESA much more often and much more. In view of the case before Christmas, where the Minister of Finance thought something about what were the thresholds for how much you could give in wage support, it is clear that you can challenge ESA more. That's what my question is about, if the minister will actually try to challenge this more, instead of saying that this is the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e806	I don't know if Stordalen got what I said, but I said I don't recognize myself in the description given. We are in dialogue with ESA on this, and we are doing what is possible to ensure that the scope of action under the State aid rules is exploited, in line with the priorities of the Government and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e811	If the Minister of Transport does not recognise it – this is precisely on the basis of several written questions that have come to the Minister of Transport on this particular matter. Then it's very special, when several voices call for and believe that the space for action is much larger. That's what I'm asking about and not getting an answer to – whether the Council of State will challenge and see if the space for action can be bigger, and not say that this is in a way what is the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e816	Yes, I can then repeat that we are in dialogue with ESA on this, and we are going to do what is possible to ensure that we have the space for action within the State aid rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e824	This question, from the representative Hans Andreas Limi to the Minister of Finance, will be raised by the representative Terje Halleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e829	‘In the adopted State budget for 2022, the government chose to increase fuel prices by an increased CO 2 tax, and the price of petrol has already reached NOK 20 per litre. The state now has large extra revenues due to high energy prices, and at the same time as 60 pst. the fuel price related to fees. Will the Council of State in the revised national budget take the initiative to reduce the level of taxation on petrol and diesel while at the same time providing a guarantee that the overall level of taxation on fuel will not increase in the future state budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e839	It was pleasant to be able to get to the pulpit without running there, as I did before. In the State budget for 2022, the Solberg Government, supported by the Progress Party, proposed to increase the CO 2 tax by 28 pst. in addition to the price adjustment without compensating the drivers with reductions in the user charge. That fee increase cancelled this government. This government would have a socially and geographically fair climate policy, and we therefore compensate the drivers for half of the increase in the CO 2 tax through reductions in the user charge. The pump price on petrol is therefore 22 cents lower, and on diesel it is 25 cents lower than the Solberg Government's proposal. The main reasons why fuel prices are now high are linked to commodity prices in the market and cannot be directly linked to this government’s budget. The Hurdal platform is the political platform of the government. The platform is valid for the entire period 2021 to 2025. The Hurdal platform states that the government will ‘reduce taxes that affect people most, such as electricity and fuel taxes’. The Government assesses changes in tax rules in the work of the State budget, including changes in taxes on electricity, fuel and other types of charges. The government will come back with proposals on the tax rates for 2023 in the state budget for 2023, but I can be clear that this government aims to make everyday life easier for people, not harder. We recognise that people in a country like Norway, including myself, are completely dependent on cars in many places, and so will we be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e862	I hear that the tone has changed significantly since before the election. Then it was really important to prioritize lower prices, and one didn't want to be part of a government with a society where the petrol price was 20 kroner. Pollestad in the new day 18 ordered a petrol price of 20 kroner to be too high and referred to the government platform – that prices should be lowered. In addition, Pollestad said that the Senterpartiet works for lower charges and that the petrol charges should be reduced. Then I can follow up with a very simple question. At the end of the year, 31 December 2021 to 1 January 2022 – did the petrol charges rise, or did they decrease?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e867	We can take some examples to understand the contexts of fuel pricing. One of the major changes made when the Progress Party ran was an increase in the integration requirement for biofuels from 3.5 pst. in 2014 to 24,5 pst. in 2021. There was no tax statement on how it turned out, but it is known that biofuels are much more expensive than other fuels, so this has led to an increase in fuel prices. Taxes on biofuels have also been increased. When we took over the government power last fall, we were busy with the part where the fuel companies pressed for more interference, that it would be cheaper. For this reason, we reduced the fees on, for example: incorporation of biodiesel with 57 ears per litre to mitigate part of the rashes with higher incorporation requirements. Some of the main reason why there is now a higher pump price for people is, of course, the crown price and that there are high oil and gas prices. There were prices of more than 20 kroner also last autumn, before this budget was adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e872	We hear that these are good explanations of why the prices are high. I do not remember that these were ever arguments in the election campaign – that a certain reservation was made when 20 kroner were too much, or that a high price or a discount on the former government's fees was of importance to that. The representative Arnstad, as I mentioned earlier, has said that it is not appropriate to sit in a government that has a petrol price of more than NOK 20. In his reply, the representative Pollestad stated that this was more about the CO 2 tax, or that it was about the petrol taxes, and that he wanted to work so that the CO 2 tax would not affect the price to such an extent. I have not understood anything other than that the government is going to work for the price to be NOK 2000 in 2030 as well. [[President clubs]] Is it not that the Centre Party compensates the fees... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e885	Time's up. We have to respect the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e890	The centre party is concerned that having a car in Norway is not going to be more expensive. For example, we put in. reduce the traffic insurance charge for 2022 in order to reduce the basic cost of having a car. One of the most important things that we have raised throughout the election campaign was that if you, for example, in the case of a job, depended on the active use of a car and has a lot of travel, the costs should be reduced. For example, a commuter from my own home – around Hamar and Stange – who commutes by car to Oslo, will receive an increase of over NOK 20 000 and much less the cost of using a car this year than he had last year. Those who depend on the car and use a lot of cars will experience that the costs are going down because we have done a complete tax cut in terms of both traffic insurance charges, that we reduced the tax increases proposed by the Solberg government, and that we strengthen the commuting discount. This means that in sum, a lot of drivers will experience that they come out much better this year than they did when the Progress Party was in and adopted the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e898	This question, from the representative of Marius Arion Nilsen to the Minister of Finance, will be answered by the Minister of Oil and Energy who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e903	‘In today’s situation with sky-high power prices, cold weather and record low water storage filling, the Progress Party believes that general considerations require that we apply § 12 of Statnett’s power exchange concessions with Germany and the United Kingdom, in order to regulate and limit energy exports. We have put forward a proposal for a representative on this point. The Minister of Finance appears to have a different opinion from that of the general interest, at the latest at the Political Quarter on 27 January 2022. How much more critical must the situation be before the Council of State considers that general considerations can be put into effect and power exports limited?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e910	The State network concessions for international relations contain conditions under which the Ministry reserves the right to modify the terms of the concession if ‘general considerations’ make this necessary. What is involved in this must be assessed on the basis of the purpose of the concession scheme, and I therefore believe that consideration such as, inter alia, security of supply, resource management and the environment will be relevant. At the same time, the relationship with international commitments will need to be emphasised in such an assessment. Here, the EEA Agreement and the United Kingdom Agreement place restrictions on the changes that may be made where these involve trade restrictions. In a broader assessment, it also needs to be emphasised that we can get into a situation where we ourselves need to import power from abroad. If the Norwegian authorities are now intervening in the established rules on how power trading is organised, this will be a way of turning us back in such a situation. The EEA Agreement generally prohibits the imposition of quantitative restrictions on exports of goods and includes electricity trade. A similar provision exists in the Free Trade Agreement between the United Kingdom and the EEA countries. At the same time, there are exceptional rules, such as the provisions on safeguard measures in the EEA Agreement. However, the threshold for using such exemptions is very high. Although we experience exceptionally high power prices and lower filling levels in the warehouses than usual, we are not now in a situation of security of supply challenges. Statnet estimates that the availability of power over winter is safe. Energy authorities are closely monitoring the situation. The government takes this year's power situation very seriously. That is why we quickly put in place strong measures to remedy the situation. We will also look closely at the causes of the high electricity prices and the effects of this – so that we do not get in the same situation as we have done this autumn and winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e923	England is not even part of the EU, I hear the Council of State mentions free trade agreements. But I would like to ask the Minister why the government parties are constantly claiming that the power concessions do not allow changes, while in documents from the OED when the concessions were granted, it is explicitly stated that the concession decision can be reversed if the conditions for the decision change significantly. For example, the conversion to non-statutory rules may: be appropriate to consider if, in particular, overriding reasons relating to the future organisation of power exchanges with the rest of the world should so be stated. These concession applications also state that Statnett is responsible for the socio-economical development and operation of the link. It's not socio-economically profitable to sit still and watch business go bankrupt, flag out, or people get ruined. The most illustrative example of change in power exchange is Germany’s little thoughtful decommissioning of nuclear power plants this winter. Does the Minister believe that power concessions cannot be changed regardless of the energy policy pursued in the exchange countries, and no matter how negative the consequences are for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e930	We have good dialogue with our neighbouring countries – both the Nordic countries, the United Kingdom and Germany – about this situation. However, if Norway were to limit trade in foreign links in an attempt to influence the price of power, it would be contrary to our obligations and the agreements concluded, among others. when the party of progress was in government. The UK cable is mentioned, and it is that the United Kingdom is not a member of the EU. The agreement between Statnett and National Grid is a private law agreement for the construction and operation of the power cable and was drawn up before it became known that the United Kingdom could withdraw from the EU. In order to ensure a predictable framework for the North Sea Link project and any future cables between Norway and the United Kingdom, a separate power trade agreement was concluded with the United Kingdom and it states that the overall principles are in line with those of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e935	Given that both the Central Party and the SV in the media have spoken in favour of renegotiation of the power exchange agreements, I assume that this is at least thoroughly discussed in the government of these days, and in fact that proposals for action come soon – and as we have seen before in this pandemic, preferably through proposals that the Progress Party has already promoted, that have been voted down, and where the government parties take a fairly similar blue copy of them and promote them themselves. Can the Minister clarify whether the government has had any contact with neighbouring countries and discussed the power cables and the conditions for the exchange of power in today's situation? In addition, can the Minister elaborate on the allegations that the EEA Agreement does not allow restrictions on the exchange of power and point to where it says?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e942	We have dialogue with our neighbouring countries in the channels that we have about this. That's also what we have to do. The EEA Agreement clearly states that electricity is defined as a product in the EEA Agreement and the Free Trade Agreement and is therefore subject to the provisions of the Agreement on trade restrictions, Article 12 of the EEA Agreement. It prohibits the imposition of quantitative restrictions on exports of electricity as a product. A similar provision is contained in Articles 2 to 12 of the Free Trade Agreement between the EEA countries and the United Kingdom, i.e. an agreement concluded under the previous Government. The dialogue we are going to have must, of course, be about bringing down power prices in Norway. Nor will this government enter into new inter-national connections that could affect the price in such a negative direction as is discussed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e950	This question, from the representative Sylvi Listhaug to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e955	‘It is the turn of ordinary people to be skinned on the guard of this government. The price of food is increasing, the rate is rising, there are record high petrol prices and electricity prices that are destroying many of their economies. The government's running out of money, 30-40 billion. SEK in extra income on electricity charges, and the government incurs several hundred billion in gas revenues each day. Why is the Council of State opposed to a maximum price that makes people do themselves rather than distribute alms, and how does the government intend to ensure that companies that are struggling with high electricity prices do not end up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e962	There were two questions here. I share the concern of the representative Listhaug that high electricity prices make households unable to pay the electricity bill this winter. This is precisely why the government has presented a consistent and targeted package of measures, such as: contains a support scheme for households. For January consumption, the country will pay 80 pst. of the power price exceeding 70 øre per kilowatt hour. This will also apply to February and March. In reality, the government's system, to which the Storting has joined, acts as a ceiling on the price. When the power price reaches 70 cents, the country intervenes and secures households against the peaks. Furthermore, we have reduced the electricity charge by 48 pst. in the winter months January to March and 9 pst. in the other months. Here it is worth remembering that the government of Solberg, where the representative, Mr. Listhaug, was the Minister of Oil and Energy, set up the electricity tax – a grip that, in isolation, led to an increase in electricity prices for ordinary people. The average power price in South Norway was about 140 øre per kilowatt hour in January. A household that used e.g. 4000 kilowatt-hours, they'll get a support of NOK 3,200. So to the representative's other questions: Many actors in the Norwegian power-intensive industry have for a long time had a stable power supply at constant prices due to long-term power purchase agreements. They are therefore not exposed to the fluctuations in the power market in the same way as consumers. The Minister of Industry has stressed the importance of the fact that several companies in the high-power, export-oriented industry are considering the conclusion of such long-term agreements in the future. It is particularly important for companies that have low-cost electricity as one of their competitive advantages and therefore are particularly exposed to fluctuations in the electricity price. For the greenhouse industry and agriculture, we have introduced a compensation scheme similar to that for consumers. The difference is that the ceiling on support for agriculture is set at 20,000 kilowatt-hours per month, in line with the input from the industry. For the greenhouse industry, there are no consumption ceilings. The revenue shall benefit the community. Most of the Norwegian power plants are owned by the state and the municipalities. Large profits result – through dividends, ordinary taxes and high special taxes on hydropower – in large revenues for government. This money goes to our common well-being. The representative of Listhaug's proposal to cut these revenues into the community will mean that municipalities will have to cut their offer to the inhabitants. This could mean fewer sick homes, nurses and less education for our children. The situation we're in is extraordinary and must be treated accordingly. After this winter, the government will evaluate how we ended up here, and work to ensure that we never end up in such a situation again. Right now, we need to avoid short-term measures that can work against their purpose in the long run.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e979	What we hear is a minister who stands and justifies something that is in practice a huge extra taxing of people, and that people should sit and clapping because we pay in tens of billions of dollars of electricity to the public. The party of progress is completely in disagreement with the fact that there is something to celebrate. On the contrary, we believe that the state should take in less, and that people should keep more by themselves. This is a situation that can persist for many years, and therefore more action needs to be taken than to introduce some alms that do not go far. I hear that the Council of State says it is a rigorous and targeted arrangement. Well, the fact is that very many people get more than twice as high expenditure despite this accurate support scheme. My question was not answered. What do you do for bakeries, dry cleaners – powerful industry? Elkem was recently out there and said they'd fly out if you didn't get to the situation. The question is, what are we going to do for the companies in this country so that jobs are not lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e988	High prices are negative for consumers and businesses other than the power industry; there is no doubt. General price regulation is a small targeted measure, and price regulation may also have unintended consequences. I would like to refer from the debate, when we talked about the maximum price proposal and the representative Frank Edvard Sve said: our proposal is exactly the same as the government's proposal. We say 50 cents at the maximum price and we want to cover everything, the government says 70 cents, and we want to cover 80 cents. over it, but we are not touching the market mechanisms. Therefore, I think it is alarming that there appears to be a strong desire to rock the market mechanisms, because in the power market the price is set by means of supply and demand, and it is essential to ensure the balance of a complex and complex power market from day to day and from hour to hour. I have already answered the question relating to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e997	To compare a maximum price of 50 cents with the proposal adopted by the government in Stortinget, I think everyone sees that there is no vote. I do not think that was the intention of the representative, Mr Sve. We're here again with unanswered questions. We can then interpret it there that this government has not intended to lift a single finger to help all the companies that are now struggling – bakeries who get hundreds of thousands of dollars in expenses, as well as dry cleaners – with six times as high electricity bills as normal. We're also in danger of getting companies flagged out. The EU is also being pushed ahead of it. France, a member of the EU, wants to introduce maximum prices for both small and medium-sized enterprises, whereas this government is so loyal to the EU that it is more concerned with protecting Norwegian jobs than with protecting Norwegian jobs. Why is that so?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1006	This government is closely following the situation for business and small, medium-sized and large enterprises. I am also concerned that we should be able to get the situation back to a more normal situation, so that we can secure the industry for the future. Having sufficient and reasonable access to clean renewable energy is a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry, and it should continue to do so. Among other things, one third of the electricity tax bill will be SEK 2.9 billion. New year's kr benefits to business. The power-processing industry got 8.2 billion last year. SEK in aid through exemptions and reduced electricity tax rates, and this year the industry will receive SEK 2.8 billion. NOK in CO 2 compensation. It comes in addition to what I mentioned in my first answer, and then we follow this situation closely. This government stands out both for ordinary people and for industry and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1025	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1039	This question has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for it. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs is suffering from a disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1053	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1061	This question, from the representative Ingerd Schou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Climate and Environment on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is suffering from disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1066	I can then be pleased that he will now be able to answer a question that is planned for another Council of State – with reference to the oral questioning procedure today! So to the question: ‘The Government announced on 11 January that Norway will grant 100 million. kr to the United Nations response plans for Afghanistan. The United Nations estimates that there will be a greater need for 44 billion dollars. kr to prevent a humanitarian disaster in the country. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs assess the political situation in Afghanistan and the ability to contribute to remedy a future humanitarian disaster?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1077	As the representative of Mr Schou rightly points out, Afghanistan is facing a major humanitarian crisis. After 40 years of war, in 2021, the country experienced the worst drought in 27 years, escalated levels of conflict, pandemic, and then the Taliban's takeover of power. More than half of the population need humanitarian aid in 2022. Nearly 23 million people live on the hunger line, and one million children are at risk of dying of hunger. It is therefore essential to talk to those who are actually in power in Afghanistan, to make them responsible and to help the Afghan people who are suffering. That's why we invited the Taliban to Norway. We understand that this invitation has aroused strong emotions, and there have been major dilemmas, but for us it is the most important thing to prevent an even greater disaster. The Oslo meetings contribute to maintaining the pressure on the Taliban. They must do much more to prevent the humanitarian disaster from getting worse, respecting human rights, facilitating a more representative regime and preventing terrorism. The United Nations response plan for 2022 is the largest ever for a country. This shows the seriousness of the humanitarian crisis. Norway is actually one of the few donors who have already committed themselves to an amount of 100 million. kr. The amount is in addition to core support for the UN and support for Norwegian and international partners. The government will maintain a high level of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan, but humanitarian efforts are not enough. We must help maintain basic services for the Afghan people and ensure the livelihood of families and communities. All assistance to Afghan authorities has been stopped, but Norway is also continuing development assistance through multilateral and non-governmental organisations in the interception of humanitarian efforts. We are planning how we can increase our efforts both humanitarianly and through long-term development assistance. Norway was an instigator when, before Christmas, the Security Council concluded that humanitarian assistance and activities supporting basic human needs are not contrary to the UN sanctions regime. We encourage the entire international community to use this space of action for the benefit of the civilian population. The Taliban, for its part, must provide unrestricted and unconditional access to humanitarian actors, as underlined in the Oslo meetings. For months to come, Norway as a pen leader in the Security Council will work to ensure that the UN is given as broad and as robust a mandate for its activities in Afghanistan as possible when this is discussed in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1094	Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt explained that the Taliban met with clear demands that schools in Afghanistan should be opened to girls over 12 years of age, that humanitarian access be given and that people throughout the country have access to food, medicine and human rights, and a more inclusive regime. Has the government set this as a criterion for increased Norwegian aid to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1099	First of all, it is quite true that all these demands were made, with emphasis, in the conversations that were in Oslo. Then it is imperative for the achievement of the goal that this humanitarian approach be given. At the same time, the conduct of the Taliban does not allow the multilateral humanitarian work to be conditional on the behaviour of the Taliban, so that, as far as possible, provision must be made – for the women, children and men in Afghanistan who suffer nevertheless – to create a humanitarian space, the access and the space for action of the actors to work on the side of Afghan authorities. For example, we want to do this. not that Afghan authorities pay teachers with our money, but we want teachers to be paid so that both boys and girls can go to school. How to solve that dilemma is one of the really big challenges in the most regrettable situation we are facing in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1104	Prime Minister Støre said to VG on 24 January this year that ‘Afghanistan is on the brink of collapse, and the possibility of a massive wave of refugees, and terror gets foothold again’. How does the government view the prospect of a wave of refugees against Europe this year, originating in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1111	Once again, this is a significant risk, and there is great concern about this, both for the consequences of a wave of refugees against Europe and simply for the causes that might drive it forward. That's why you have a desire to try to alleviate the worst distress in a hard-tested country at the current stage, with the authorities that have now established themselves in Afghanistan after what happened in the autumn. So that's what we're looking at with great concern, and I feel that there's a lot of the motivation for just doing these actions. That is both what we are doing and what we are responsible for and responsible for in the Afghanistan Security Council to ensure that the UN mandate is robust enough to reach those who suffer and need it the most, without at the same time contributing to any kind of legitimacy or strengthening of the Taliban's status in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1120	‘In September, the Ministry of Defence sent the Additional Agreement on Defence Cooperation between Norway and the United States to a hearing on 8 December. [[SDCA]] The agreement is mentioned in Prop. [[(2021–2022):]] 1 S So far, the government has not communicated anything about either the agreement or the hearing. Will the agreement be submitted for review in the spring session?’ It was a bit like Ivar Aasen's goal, but I hope the minister got the lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1129	The state councils have asked in writing, so I think the performance is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1134	Ivar Aasen's painting is very understandable, so it's going to be okay. It is quite right, as the representative points out, that the hearing period was set at 8 December 2021. There have been a significant number of hearing opinions that should have been processed and processed by the government. This agreement will be binding on international law and will be approved by the Stortinget before it enters into force under the Constitution § 26. The government will present this to Stortinget as soon as possible. The proposal of consent from the U.D. and the bill from the Ministry of Defence is sent to the Stortinget before Easter, so that it can be dealt with in the spring session. That's the government's clear ambition that we're following up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1141	I thank you for your answer. Norway has a 70-year long security policy cooperation with the United States. The United States is our closest ally, and the security guarantee through NATO is absolutely vital to our security and security. This security policy cooperation has been based on a set of agreements, with the 1950 bilateral agreement as the main foundation itself, and this security policy cooperation has been possible within the framework of Norwegian basic policies. But then, in the context of the additional agreement that Stortinget is about to deal with, some critics of this agreement believe that it is a breach of Norwegian basic policy. There was also a notice in Stavanger Aftenblad about this yesterday. How does the Minister of Defence view such criticism and approach to this supplementary agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1150	It is a good summary of the agreements that Norway has had with the United States for a long – 70 years – cooperation in the field of defence policy. This new agreement is a modernisation of previously concluded agreements which state that Norwegian basic policy is established, as it has done in the past. We must also bear in mind that this is a global agreement negotiated by the United States with many other countries, where there is a different device, where permanent American forces are present in the countries with which they have agreed. Norway does not. Norway has another agreement that says that the basic policy is firm and that we should not have American forces on Norwegian soil in peacetime.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1157	As the Minister said, this additional agreement is to be dealt with in Stortinget now in the spring session. So my simple question is: if the Storting against Presumptive would not agree with this agreement, what alternatives do Norway have since security policy, and what consequences could a failure to this additional agreement have?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1162	Of course, there are aspects to the agreement that you might want to do differently, but this is always the case when you have to conclude an agreement and negotiate with others. Then it's giving and taking, and you have to come up with a compromise that both can live with. I believe this has been done in this case: a good compromise has been reached in which Norwegian interests are well protected. If the Storting against assumption chooses to say no to this agreement, it will mean that it will be more difficult to get assistance from the United States, which is our most important ally, when we need it. It may be more difficult to practice together, and we need to set up our defence policy differently from that underlying both in the long-term plans and in the defence policy concept on which we have built.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1176	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1184	‘On 16 November 2021, I asked the Council of State in writing about how he would secure Avinor’s financial security at a time of aviation uncertainty so that a new airport in Bodø could be completed as planned in 2027. We have just received the shock message about a strong postponement of the project with completion near 2030, at best. This is unacceptable. How will the Council of State monitor the completion of the Avinor aerodrome as foreseen by the Stortinget and prevent the termination of the main North Norway development project?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1191	In the draft budget of the Ministry of Transport, it has been suggested that the Ministry will consider further measures against Avinor. I will follow the situation at Avinor close. This concerns the economic situation of the company in general and the case of the transfer of Bodø airport. The Government has continued to pursue the Storting decision to build an aerodrome and to implement a new aerodrome. I will come back to Stortinget with these matters in an appropriate way. A transfer of Bodø airport will help to free up important areas for urban development, and the aim of the project is to contribute to positive urban development and strengthen regional development. As is known, the new airport shall be financed by Avinor, the State and local contributions. In the state budget for 2022, Stortinget granted 200 million. kr to Avinor for further planning and adopted a cost framework for the new airport. The draft budget of the Ministry of Transport also presents a financing plan and a breakdown of cost risks for the new airport. The cost framework, the financing plan and the risk sharing are based on an external quality assurance, known as KS2, carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport, and it was then initiated by the government of Solberg. The budget proposal sets out the economic situation of Avinor as a result of the pandemic and it is pointed out that it is Avinor who is to take the final development decision for the new airport. As the representative pointed out, Avinor announced on 20 January 2022 that the extension decision had been postponed by 12 months. The basis for the decision was Avinor’s economic situation and uncertainty about the future as a result of the pandemic. Avinor is organised as a limited liability company, and in a limited liability company, the board of directors is responsible for determining how much to invest. As a result of the pandemic, Avinor has streamlined operations and reduced and postponed a number of investment projects across the country. However, we have had to make it clear that the company can deviate from the equity requirement of the statutes until 31 March of this year. In the Hurdal platform, the government has shown that it will continue and strengthen the Avinor model to operate and further develop airports throughout the country. And then I'm essentially repeating what I said in the beginning: that the government's goal is that the Storting's decision to build an airport should be followed up, and that a new airport should be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1206	Just as the last F-16 had left the flight town of Bodø, this shock chain came from Avinor. As a settlement, I cannot express clearly enough how we feel throughout the region, without being clubbed down for unparliamentary language. But the Council of State therefore told Avisa Nordland and the NRK that ‘we were not given any prior notice’ of this postponement. Can the Council of State now inform the Stortinget whether it is correct – that is a simple yes/no question – that the owner of Avinor was not informed of such a dramatic delay that took place in three years’ time and that is contrary to the plan of progress envisaged by the Stortinget all the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1213	I understand that there is great impatience associated with the project, and I know how important the project is for the region and for Bodø. So, of course, we want to contribute to the realisation of the project, also from the Department of Transport. This newspaper article is probably a little unpresis; at least I'm quoted a little unpresist. We were, of course, given a short time before the message went out to tell us what Avinor saw for himself. Besides that, I have no knowledge or opportunity to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1220	It was very clarifying, because there are two media companies that quoted the government councils on it, so now we have new information. But then there is the question of whether the Council of State will now use ownership to ensure that Avinor gets the financial security to make an investment decision in good time before the revised national budget in spring. And the Council of State sees anything that is problematic with the project itself, so that Avinor does not make such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1227	To take the last one first: I have no other views on that project than the government and the Stortinge have founded. It's a project that's wanted nationally, regionally and locally, and that means that we take it as the most important signal in order to realize the project. So, of course, I'm in dialogue with Avinor about this, but I have nothing more to tell you about the progress of the project here and now, in addition to what I said in the first post.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1235	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The Council of State answers 24 January to written questions from me that MS «Vetlefjord» will not be included in the system of free ferries. On 25 January, Hallgeir Grøtvedt from the Central Party, Chief Commissioner of Road in Trøndelag, says that the entire connection, including MS «Vetlefjord», will be free during the year. He says that this is settled with the government parties in Stortinget. Can the Council of State clarify what is correct?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1244	The representative Løndeth pointed out that she has raised the question of a reduced fare for a boat and ferry trip in Tøndelag in a written question earlier. As explained in the reply, the Stortinget made a request decision in spring 2020, where the government was asked for an obliging plan for halving the ferry tariffs. The Hurdal platform states that the government will halve the prices of national and county road ferries during the four-year period. The budget for 2022 sets out the means by which the ferry tariffs for road users could be reduced by 30 pst on 1 January this year. compared to the tariffs on 1 January 2021. So the government is doing well to meet the objective of halving the ferry tariffs. Both the request decision and the Hurdals platform concern ferry tariffs and the Solberg Government did not raise the question of speedboat tariffs in the follow-up to the request decision. The Hurdal platform also states that the government wants to introduce free ferries in low-traffic connections to islands and unconnected communities. The budget for 2022 is set at 30 million. kr for free ferries in low-traffic connections, connecting with less than 100000 passengers, and the government has notified the Stortinget that an arrangement will be submitted for the use of these funds for the second half of 2022. I will then come back to Stortinget with suggestions on how the funds will be used in the revision of the State budget for 2022 in May. Furthermore, we are now also working on following up how boats that carry both cars and passengers, so-called combo boats, are to be included in the reduction in ticket prices, cf. the observations of the majority parties in relation to the budget. The routes in question in Trøndelag are considered by Trondelag County Municipality as one ferry and one boat route. The County Municipality has reported the route in question as a boat route in critical data used by the Ministry of Local and District Affairs to calculate framework grants through the income system of the county municipalities. Finally, I would like to remind you that the division of responsibilities between the state and the county council is fixed. The county councils are responsible for local boat and ferry routes and also for fixing tariffs. It is therefore up to the individual county to decide whether the boat route should be made free of charge or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1259	It is, as Hallgeir Grøtvedt also says in the case I mentioned from the newspaper Hitra-Frøya, that you are actually waiting for a clear signal from the government. But what is at the heart of the battle is whether the so-called MS «Vetlefjord» is to be regarded as a speedboat or as a ferry, since it is also a speedboat driving. I feel that I really do not get a very clear answer in addition to the fact that you really do not promise to do anything with the speedboats, which may lead to those who choose to take what is considered a ferry large part of the distance, being able to get it for free, while those who choose to take the same route with a speedboat will not get it for free. I also have another question in extending it, because the Council of State also mentions the comment contained in the State budget. It is said that it is assumed that the government ensures that vehicles using fast-moving motorboats will also be notified of the reduction in the ferry price. Is that how to understand that only vehicles get that reduction, and not passengers and e.g. goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1268	I have explained correctly what is leading the Hurdal platform, and what is leading the state budget to reduce the prices of ferries. And it is quite right that during the wholesale processing, a majority of people made a comment saying that we should follow up the so-called combi boats, which have room to carry both passengers and cars. How Stortinget has thought when you have formulated it, it is not my right to answer, but at least I have been given the task of interpreting and coming back to Stortinget to answer it – and I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1275	Then I'm anxious to get feedback on how the Council of State understands what the majority has written. What has come from the government parties and SV is precisely that there is a vehicle that is using fast-moving motorboats to get a reduction. It seems unclear whether passengers, who use these means of transport, will receive the same reduction as those cars receive. It is also the case that many of the islands that this applies, as I tick also for several other islands in Norway, are roadless communities, so it is not possible to take the car there. And Finance Minister Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, when he was going to present this in the autumn, said to VG that among other things. the smallest island communities in Trøndelag were going to enjoy this very well with free ferries. I noticed that something more appears in the blue. Does the Council of State see that it is paradoxical that what was drawn out by the Minister of Finance might not yet receive the support provided by the Government Platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1280	I think we should not lose sight of it, nor should we lose sight of it. There has been an increase in ferry prices over time during the previous government. In fact, some adjustments were made after negotiations in Stortinget last, but now, in fact, we have a government that has taken strong steps to reduce ferry prices – in contrast to what the Solberg government proposed in its last budget statement. We are committed to reducing ferry prices for ordinary people and will continue to do so in the future state budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1294	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1302	‘The national transport plan foresees that new train equipment will be phased into 2025-2026. According to Norwegian trains, the first 30 trains are replacements for existing materials. In order to provide material beyond this and to ensure half-hour departures on the Westfold Railway, it must be granted, at the latest, in the State budget for 2023. How will the Council of State follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1309	There's a tremendous amount of work going on on on the railways. In the national transport plan 2022-2033, the overall framework for railway investment above 200 billion is set out. kr. About 50 of these have been set aside in the first six-year period to complete or start development projects on the four intercity sections of the East. Construction of new double-track walkways on the Drammen–Kopervikdalen and Nykirke–Barkåker sections has started and is scheduled to be completed in the summer of 2025. After completion, there will be double tracks on the entire Oslo-Tønsberg route, and thus increased infrastructure capacity will, fortunately, provide better train services on the route. In addition, it is expected that the journey time between Drammen and Tønsberg will be reduced by 10-15 minutes. The Railway Directorate has identified different route options/models and has taken into account the establishment of an approximate 15-minute frequency for the train offer between Oslo and Tønsberg from the scheduled deadline change in December 2025. As part of the work on new traffic agreements in the East, an up-to-date assessment of vehicle requirements for the different lines, i.e. trains, is now being carried out. It includes the estimate of transport needs per take-off in the new normal after the pandemic is over. It is true that the Directorate for Railways is responsible for ensuring a comprehensive and coordinated offer and development of the railway, and the Directorate's assessment is that there will be enough trains to run the planned routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1322	Ten days ago, a never-small media bomb went to Westfold, when one of the Minister of Transport’s party friends had spoken to the Director of Norwegian Trains, who could tell that they could only forget four trains an hour on the Westfold Railway from the new double track was finished in 2025. The article claimed that it is not appropriate to start a process of purchasing trains before 2026. Message like this puts the minds of people who have chosen to settle so that they can actively use trains. The council answered a written question from me on this topic: ‘A contract has been concluded to acquire 30 type 77 local trains to replace older materials on the Eastfold route. The contract includes an option to buy another 170 trains.» Is it relevant to install local trains that run at a lower speed and have lower seating comfort than regional trains on the Vestfold track?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1334	It is true that the representative now refers to both the acquisition of local trains and the possibility of an option. That option will be triggered step by step, and the government considers the need to trigger the first part of the option in time for new trains to be delivered as soon as the first order of 30 trains has been completed. Several new trains may have to be ordered by 2024 at the latest in order to be delivered by 2026. This means that the residual value guarantee must be decided at the latest in relation to the treatment of the State budget for 2024. Expected delivery of additional trains is early in 2026, and option 1 takes into account vehicles that can be used on the Dal-Dramen-Tønsberg-Regional train route, and also provides a fallback solution for a transitional period during which dialogue with the Fly train is considered in order to examine together those possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1339	So there's a certain possibility that it could be local trains for a certain period of time. The Council of State said in its first response that the national transport plan describes an ambition to set aside 200 billion. kr for the entire NTP period and that 50 of these billions will be set aside during the first six-year period to complete or start development projects on the four intercity sections of the Eastern region. The national transport plan expresses an ambition and does not oblige the government at all times to follow up on the annual budgets. Can the Council of States confirm that sufficient resources are being allocated to follow-up to the national transport plan of the State budget for 2023?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1346	Of course, when it comes to the individual state budget, the government comes back to that when we put it forward. It'll be completely wrong of me to go into the details of it now. But the ambitions of the national transport plan I perceive that there is a great deal of cross-political support for it, and that is what we are doing. It is quite clear that something has arisen in this answer, I do not know how, but at least it is that trains are available so that we can get the effect that occurs when the infrastructure is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1356	‘NVE writes in several reports that electrification measures in Norway and electrification of Norwegian base will have consequences for the power system and the need for power. Equinor has said that the company will need 10-12 terawattims of shore electricity for electrification of the base. What is expected to increase the power consumption, and what will be the cost of developing the necessary land-based grids as described by the NVE in the onshore and the base electrification measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1363	Without electrification of our society, we don't reach our climate goals. In 2020, the NVE prepared a report on electrification measures and consequences for the power system on behalf of the then government. The report looked at electrification measures in transport, land-based industrial installations and on the base. The total electrification measures studied by NVE were estimated to increase the annual power consumption in Norway by up to 23 TWh, in addition to other consumption growth. The electrification measures studied by NVE will require investments in the power grid. The network investments that must be in place before the electrification measures in the report can be implemented were estimated at between 9 billion. kr and 16 br. kr. Norway has a good starting point for electrification. We have a power surplus of about 20 TWh in a normal year. NVE expects in its long-term market analysis from 2021 that Norway will also have a surplus of power in 2030 and 2040, even with extensive electrification. At the same time, we must now equip ourselves to increase the demand for power in the coming years. The government will facilitate more power generation, so that we are also well equipped to meet the power needs of the future. We are also concerned that the capacity of the power grid is being strengthened and expanded throughout the country. The government's objective is that sea wind should be an important contributor to the electrification of oil activities on Norwegian soil. Nevertheless, there is a need for electricity from land, especially in a start-up phase, to ensure supply of electricity even when it does not blow. The Norwegian power grid is financed by a spice layer. When we are going to electrify parts of Norwegian land-flow sockets, it happens that the oil companies are involved in paying for the infrastructure. These construction contributions contribute to the development of Norwegian infrastructure in a way that also benefits households. The government has ambitious climate targets. In order to achieve the climate targets, it is essential to put in place rapid emission reduction measures. It is necessary to establish a new green industry that can contribute to the move towards a climate-neutral world by 2050. The development of long-term power supplies is not without dilemmas, and there is a need to see the different energy policies in context. The question asked by the representative Sve goes into what is one of the main issues of power policy in the future: how does the gap between expected growth in consumption and planned power generation close? That's why it's a shame that the previous government did so little to prepare us for just such a situation. This government is taking the power situation of the future seriously. That is why, in a short time, we will set down an Energy Commission to assess the need for energy in the future. We will also present an additional message to the Solberg Government's Energy Communication for work, which shows how this government will follow up important issues of energy policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1378	Power policy and everything around it with power generation and the need for power is complicated. Now, when you get a response from the government that you have to have more power from land, and the NVE and Equinor say the same thing, it needs more power, because today's system is so that the current rises there the current thinks it's best to travel. He can't control, he's in the best-capable wires. So the basis is, who is going to pay for the extra production that needs to be done because one is going to electrify the base, and all the comprehensive grid that actually needs to be built? For one, it could be a risk of having to build a lot, much more than a need for electrification of the socket, because, as I said, the current goes where the current will – if it's not equal current cables.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1383	I'm a little uncertain about what was the concrete follow-up question, but it's clear that we need to build up more power to meet the expected growth in consumption we have. We also have to improve our transmission system to get the power to where we need it. It is clear that in all electrification measures, when the whole community is electrified so that we reach climate neutrality by 2050, there is a great need for power. In the case of electrification of new power from land projects by 2030, also supplemented by sea wind, it is considered to be 6,5 TWh, 10 TWh for increased land-based industry and 5,8 TWh for electrification of transport. This is significant and will make that if we don't take powerful action, it will also reduce the gap that is now between consumption growth and production.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1388	In order to be very clear, it is up to who to pay for the extra cables that have to be built on land, i.e. the network that needs to be built on land to electrify the base, and it increases the power generation needed to electrify the base. This will increase the webbed amount, and it will increase the power demand - there will be feedback from NVE. Feedback is very clear that an expected increase in prices, an increase in grid rentals in a situation where prices are now rising, to say it in a fine way, and one can expect it to continue if the gas price persists in Europe. So who's going to pay the big bill? Are Norwegian consumers paying for Norway to be a battery for Europe in a way?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1393	As regards the electrification of the socket, it is about bringing down Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions and not giving export capacity to the rest of the world, which is characterised here as being a battery for Europe. Much of the electrification carried out in the case of reinforcements in the network is due to plant contributions. So to be very specific about, for example, the nature of the electrification of the socket: installation contributions have been made, inter alia: oil companies and the rightholders of the specific project, who then pay for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1407	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1415	‘The feedback from those working with eating disorders after two years of pandemic is alarming. Those who contact for help are younger than before, sicker than before and more than before. So the right-hand side proposed 10 million. For increased capacity in lowthreshold services and treatment of eating disorders. On the other hand, it is not part of the government's agreement with SV. What will the Council of State do to reverse developments and evaluate extra resources to help with eating disorders in the government crisis package?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1422	I share Mr Bruflot's concern about the increase in the incidence of eating disorders during the pandemic, especially in children and young people. Since December 2020, the Coordination Group for vulnerable children and young people under the pandemic, led by Bufdir, has reported increased pressure on health care due to mental health problems and disorders in children and young people, including eating disorders. The government of Solberg thus had a good opportunity to promote desired proposals, including: in their regular draft budget for 2022, and they did not. Psychiatric health is a field of activity for our government, and we have plans both in the short and long term. This is clearly indicated both in the Hurdal platform and in the budget for 2022. Strengthening mental health and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment (TSB) is one of the three main objectives of the 2022 Health Regions Mission Document. Services for children and young people are a priority area. In this year's budget, we proposed increasing basic funding in hospitals by 350 million. kr in the year’s budget to facilitate increased treatment in mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised treatment. It's also set at 350 million. low-threshold health measures, including new cooperation teams of different kinds, we have FACT, ACT and FACT Youth teams, competence development, helplines and advice on eating disorders. So children and young people are a priority area for this government. The government sees the need for a longer-term and systematic commitment to mental health. That is why we have announced a new escalation plan for mental health, and that work is in progress. I can promise that children and young people will have a solid place in this plan, which will include prevention, lowthreshold measures and specialised services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1437	The more professionals say that they are surprised at the rapid increase. And then there's no doubt that as the pandemic gets longer, so are the challenges. The causes of eating disorders are quite complex, but you can imagine that when you don't have control over everyday life, you don't have control over when things become normal, yes, you take control of what you can, and in this case it's food. But if I understand correctly, it's not like you're going to put concrete measures right against eating disorders. I also do not believe that I received an answer as to whether the Council of State assessed extras to help with eating disorders in connection with the crisis packages that were adopted by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1444	We're probably in complete agreement on this challenge picture, but I understand the representative from the Right there that it's these 1010 million to increased capacity in low-threshold offers that are the Right answer. I don't think I entirely agree with that. We believe that this needs to be strengthened by mental health protection, and we have delivered it both in crowns and ears through the additional allocation, also through the crisis proposition that has gone through the Storting now, by 1.5 billion. More to the hospitals, and also through a letter of assignment, in order to strengthen mental health protection and provide an assessment interview to all those who meet children’s and youth psychiatry, which is also very important. Then we also have an increased bet in both dollars and cents and through expectations and the grant scheme for low-threshold offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1451	Ten million. It is an immediate measure in a crisis package that was in force right now, because the pandemic was still a little longer, and because there were even a little more shut-downs than you thought, and we are probably in complete agreement that more needs to be done, and that more long-term action is needed. But mental health protection is big, it's complex, there's so many groups, and then we take in drugs as well. There are limits to how many times we can spend the same money again – and say that all of these things should go to this group and this group and this group. However, I do not hear any concrete measures that go on a low-threshold offer for those with eating disorders, and to get away from the queues that are now increasing. In addition, we know that we want to remove the system of free treatment without knowing what to replace it with. For my part, I am not sure that concrete measures are being put in place precisely against this group of young people with eating disorders, and I do not think that I am getting any answer to anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1458	I'm a little unsure about what the representative is really asking about, because I hear you want to spend 10 million on the right priorities. low-threshold services to help those with eating disorders. But the picture of the challenge is a little bit so that we see an increase among those who have a serious history, and then I think it is important to strengthen mental health protection, so that you get the right help for those who are seriously ill. So this government has prioritised large funds for lowthreshold services, including for eating disorders, so that those with the kind of challenges can get lowthreshold help. But I think it is important to ensure that children's and young people's psychiatry have competence and resources to meet those who also have more serious processes and need help in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1466	‘The Minister of Health was part of the previous Health and Care Committee, which unanimously agreed to the following remark: ‘The Committee considers that the government should consider that patients with type 2 diabetes treated with insulin should have access to sensory technology for monitoring glucose values through public health at the earliest opportunity, and no later than the end of 2021’. Why will the Council not follow up on the majority comment and ensure that new methods are used to assess the allocation of CGM for patients with type 2 diabetes using insulin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1473	Our goal is that everyone with diabetes should have good treatment and follow-up in public health. It shall be adapted to the patient’s needs and mastering level. Patients with diabetes, both those with type 1 and those with type 2, who are two different diseases, face many common challenges in everyday life. However, there are differences in follow-up between these two groups. For patients with type 1 diabetes, the responsibility for treatment lies with the specialist healthcare services, and then health regions assess whether these patients need equipment with sensory technology to measure their blood sugar and thus have the costs covered by the healthcare company. Patients with type 2 diabetes usually have a different course, and the disease often debuts later in life than diabetes type 1 does. Patients with type 2 diabetes are mainly treated by their prescriber and receive the necessary medicines and consumables for the measurement of glucose on a blue prescription. Patients with type 2 diabetes may also be referred to the specialist healthcare services whose decision-makers do not target the treatment and suspect complications resulting from poorly regulated blood sugar for a longer period of time. National guidelines recommend that patients with type 1 diabetes treated with insulin, who are totally dependent on insulin, and who control their own blood sugar, may benefit from sensory technology and then receive it. This is a treatment that may also apply to type 2 diabetic spaces that also use insulin. Then it is done through an individual assessment. Regional health enterprises have informed that it is the individual state of health that determines this need. It's also correct according to the decision-maker's assessment. Not everyone with type 2 has the benefit of a continuous blood sugar meter, but those with it will have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1484	I feel that when I hear the Council of State, I get a little gear, to say it like that. In the Question Time on 10 November 2021, the Council of State said: ‘Type 2 diabetes discs that benefit from continuous blood sugar measurement have both received it from their regional health business and should receive it’. [[...]] There have recently been two media lookups that refer to patients who do not receive CGM, the sensor for continuous glucose measurement, of the hospital, although they have to stick in their finger several times a day. Eva Pedersen is one of these patients. She's 69 years old, works as a sheep farmer, and has had type 2 diabetes for 30 years. She lives with unstable blood sugar and has to stick to her finger many times a day. She said to the nation, «I measure and measure and measure. My fingers are so cut that I almost can't get the blood sweat out of them, so I have to stick in new places all the time." The Minister of Health then has to explain why patients with type 2 diabetes who obviously need a continuous glucose meter do not get it covered by the hospital, all the time the Minister of Health himself has said they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1499	I have not spoken to Eva Pedersen, and I assume that her permanent resident refers her to the hospital when she needs specialized follow-up. It sounds as if it would have been a relief for her to have got a continuous glucose meter and not to stick in her finger. However, patients should not have to go to a government council or a magistrate in order to obtain the treatment they require. It's a responsibility we leave to health care. There are other patients who have received continuous glucose monitoring through their local hospital after an individual assessment, because it has been right for them. What it is tempting to ask the representative, Hoksrud, is whether he believes that we should transfer the responsibility for the type 2 diabetes spaces to someone other than the prescriber and remove it from the prescription. That would also have led to some problems for the type 2 patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1506	What I and the Advancement Party are concerned about is that patients should receive the treatment and the tools that will be good for patients' lives. Patients with type 2 diabetes are to be followed up in the primary health service, where the Council of State was involved, but the allocation of CGM is the specialist health service. They look at the budgets of regional health enterprises, leading to discretionary assessments, with large regional differences in Norway. This means that patients do not necessarily get what they are entitled to and should have received – it depends on where they live in the country. This government has said that they are concerned that regardless of where you live in the country, you should receive equal treatment. Can the Minister of Health answer why patients with type 2 diabetes who are referred by his permanent staff for the allocation of continuous glucose meter are rejected by the hospitals? Does not the Minister of Health think that the doctor is closest to assessing the patient’s needs and the resources needed by the patient, and therefore should be given the opportunity to provide this to the patient?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1513	I think we need to solve the challenges for patients. We're doing that by getting an individual assessment. It's a responsibility the warden has. If you have a complicated disease image and would benefit from CGM, a continuous blood sugar meter, it's with the system we have today, the specialist health service that grants it. It's a tempting idea to see if it couldn't have been done over the blue prescription as well. It costs a lot of money to have such stitches and easier ways to measure your blood sugar, through the sticks in your finger and the use of strips, so there's something you can look at. But transferring responsibility to the specialist healthcare service will create major new challenges for the type 2 patients. They get good follow-up of the prescriber, because very many of them do not need a continuous blood sugar meter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1523	‘In the exceptional situation of the electricity market, it is necessary for the state to provide for the small enterprises, and in concrete terms, I am thinking of the many studios, galleries and small crafts premises. In December, the Right proposed that the government should come back with any measures to remedy the situation. For many of these enterprises, electricity is a decisive input factor that forms a significant part of the cost base. Has the Council considered a mechanism for compensating exceptional electricity costs for the cultural industry?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1530	That a lot of people are now frustrated by the high power prices is completely understandable. The government has taken corrective action for about 15 billion. NOK to help people with high power bills. Especially for my sector, we have also presented a separate power package for sport and volunteering, which is hard-working and has little economy. Cultural life is very different. It consists of different actors that are organised in different ways and have different needs. Some have long-term fixed price contracts for electricity. Who finances the operation of each institution is also different. Some cultural actors operate from their homes, and then it is covered by the domestic electricity compensation scheme, while others are established, as the representative says, in their own workshops or studios. Some are to be regarded as enterprises and are to be regarded as businesses and are then under the responsibility of the Minister of Industry. The major actors, such as: cultural institutions and museums face other challenges. I am in dialogue with the actors in the field of culture all the time, including: Norwegian artisans, Norwegian artists, Norwegian museum associations, etc., to be briefed on the situation of those who belong to me. The government also follows the situation with the current prices continuously. But it is not necessarily easy to create one system that will hit the broad spectrum of cultural actors. They have different needs, some don't need them either. When it comes to the scheme for those who are defined as enterprises, as the representative pointed out that the Right has proposed, there is also nothing under my department, but it is something that the Minister of Industry has said that he follows closely and looks at.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1541	I don't think it reassures so many people that the council says she's going with the power prices. I think we all do. The Council of State has now given a good lecture on the ‘clothe carpet economy’ and the great inequalities that are in a very varied cultural sector. It should have been the back cover that you might already have started a job of looking at how to meet this challenge. I am also informed that the industry itself has lifted this up in the face of the Council of State, most recently last week, where they were almost deformed that there were such good corona measures that no priority had been given to looking at this. My question is whether the Minister of Culture has challenged his own role in assessing different arrangements for the cultural budget, given the wide variation she has now made, or whether she has contributed this to colleagues of government – she has already mentioned a few other government councils – in order to come up with some short-term measures to remedy the critical situation very many are in the middle of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1550	Furthermore, the right-hand opposition has not proposed a system that meets the needs of various cultural actors. What the Right has proposed is a scheme for small businesses. It may meet some, but at very close to all of them also the representative here is concerned about, or the ones I mentioned. Because of the extraordinary power crisis and sky-high prices, the government has given priority to helping households. In addition, we have created a special scheme for volunteering and sports. These are teams and associations that run well, whose only option is to change prices or allow fewer children and young people to participate. In addition to that, we have not yet made other power compensation schemes, but the Minister of Industry has said that he is following the situation closely. It is not that we have begun to look at a separate arrangement for those who are not defined as enterprises, but as pure cultural actors, but when we make a state budget or think about a revised state budget, I know very well which institutions and which groups I am responsible for, and who now have the extra toughness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1559	It is absolutely right that on the right of 16 December, a proposal was made and the government asked to return to Stortinget – something that has not been done. But on Monday I visited an artist collective here in Oslo. The two young artists I visited usually pay 45 000 kroner in electricity; now they fear a three to fourfold of it. We know that the pandemic has initially created great economic uncertainty, and then this comes to the top. Instead, their creative minds are filled with concerns about how to get their ends to meet. The mantra of the Minister of Culture has become that artists are workers, but for the Right, workers in this sector are also very often their own employers. So the government must, if they are to help them, make good arrangements that relieve small and medium-sized enterprises, which were the starting point for our proposal in December. The council knows that many artists are their own employer, as I have now said, and isn't she concerned about it also having to come up with schemes that hit these small businesses – and not hiding behind that she views them as employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1568	I'm not hiding behind anything. I am fully aware of the challenges that many artists – whether self-employed, freelance or employed by institutions – are now facing. But, as the representative himself points out, this is a blend of different needs and different forms of organisation. And neither would the system proposed by the Right in the opposition for the government to make them. This is very complicated. The Minister of Industry, who is responsible for business, has also said that the situation is carefully assessed as to whether to come back with a scheme that meets those who define themselves as small businesses. I follow the situation of those I am responsible for, carefully. A few days ago, we also had $300 million. kr for actions to be taken directly by individual artists through existing instruments. It also helps with this situation. But I am fully aware that many are now in a state of confusion, also because they have not had the opportunity to enter into long-term electricity contracts, for example. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1575	The number has to be respected and was well and well out now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1584	‘Last year, the Left and the Blue-Green Government set aside half a billion dollars for summer school provision in the municipalities, but the current government has not so far signaled that they will come up with broad schemes or crisis packages that hit students the most. The left has set at 300 million in its alternative budget. SEK to extra summer school offers also for 2022. Will the government ensure that students who have been adversely affected by infectious diseases, professional and social, receive a similar summer school offer this year as they received in 2021?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1591	I want to start by thanking you for the question. When the situation became serious again at the end of 2021, the government introduced measures to control the pandemic. In its corona management, the government has focused on protecting children and young people as far as possible and on ensuring the best possible professional and social learning for students. The most important thing we can do is, of course, to keep schools, kindergartens and leisure activities open here and now, as far as it's infective professionally sound. Therefore, unlike the previous government, we prioritised the teachers in the vaccination. That's why we gave teachers exceptions from the quarantine rules for close contacts, and that's why we also made it easier for pensioners and students to work. Now that we're considering whether to cancel or maintain the exam, the question again is how in the situation we're in, can contribute to the best possible and best possible professional and social learning for the students in what's left of the school year. I am aware that many children and young people are affected by the pandemic and the measures taken. We know that the pandemic has gone wrong, and that the big cities and vulnerable children and young people are hit particularly hard. That is why I am listening to the advice of a wide-ranging group headed by Education Director Grete Hovde Parr at the State Manager in Oslo and Viken. In the summer of 2021, the group delivered a report with recommendations on measures that may address the consequences of the pandemic for children and young people in school and vocational training, giving them the opportunity to resume lost professional and social learning. The working group pointed to two main challenges. The first is that students experience a lack of membership in the professional and social learning community. The second is that some students and students have been extra hard hit by the pandemic. The working group proposes measures to ensure that all pupils are included in good school and learning communities. They also propose measures to identify and monitor pupils with high professional and social learning losses and measures to compensate for lost learning and progress for all students. Many of the measures in the report of the working group are about increasing the capacity and competence of existing structures in school. This could be e.g. Strengthening the student, extra hours for students who need it, good temporary arrangements and protection of facilities for organisation. To a lesser extent, they recommend new structures and write that the summer school offer, which is too many a new structure, was the least used offer in 2020 and 2021. The report states: ‘Schools were already in the process of summer holidays when the grant was paid, and therefore it became difficult to prepare summer schools at such short notice.’ I believe that summer school can be a good measure, but experience from previous years suggests that summer school provision should not be remoted from the department, and should be started on the basis of a local assessment of how municipalities can follow up on lost professional and social learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1611	What I was wondering most about was this going to summer school. One of the main objectives of summer school is to compensate for some of the challenges that state councils face in relation to the professional and social consequences of the last year of the pandemic for children and youth. In my home municipality, Lindesnes, which received 2.7 million. kr to summer school, describes the municipality’s employees that the summer school has been a very much needed offer for children and young people after months with infection prevention measures and closure. The police also describe that there have been positive effects in terms of minor crime and drug use among young people in the summer months. Not least, it has had good ring-effects for teams and associations and for sport, which have also been included in many municipalities, and which have also been known to be strongly influenced by the pandemic. We know that there are many other municipalities that have stated in the course that they have been positive about the effects of the summer school offer, and I think it would be natural to evaluate it. Has the State Council spent time last year evaluating the summer school measures and measures during the fall holiday?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1618	As far as I know, the measure with summer school last year has not been evaluated in particular. However, I would like to say that everything we learn and experience from actions we put in place needs to be evaluated and evaluated and closely followed. That being said, Lindesnes is completely free to do the same thing in the coming year. They can have summer school if they think it's the most important and right thing in their municipality. I am concerned that we are able to take action that we both know works, and that works for the right students in the right place at the right time. That is why I have asked the Education Directorate to look at the impact of various measures taken against children and young people to compensate for the loss of professional and social learning and development. In addition, this government has considerably strengthened the municipal economy, and it should ensure that several municipalities have the opportunity to take action, for example: as summer school, if they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1627	Now we see that this school year is also strongly characterized by the pandemic and omicron. There have been both yellow and red levels in schools, and there have been great consequences for students in their school days and leisure time. There are still many who need follow-up because of the pressures that closures have exerted on them, both in the form of professional and cultural activities and in the form of professional replenishment. The summer school offer ensures all this, as a supplement to the ordinary school. It is nice that the municipalities can do this by themselves, but it requires that it is a municipality that has the finances to do so. And as the Council of State was in place, the municipalities must have time to plan if they are to implement measures like this, and yet the government has not signaled so far that they will make arrangements. Does the State Council see any other action that takes the same needs as the summer school did?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1638	I think we're going to be humble because we don't know exactly what works best everywhere. We know that the pandemic has affected both geographically, socially and in terms of age, and we know that it has had a lot to say how much support the individual student has been able to get from home in periods where you've just been more at home. That's why I've asked the Education Directorate to do four things further, because I don't think this is over because the measures are now easier – I think we have to follow it for a long time. The first thing I've asked them to do is look at the consequences of the pandemic measures for the youngest students and start training. The second thing I've asked them to look at is the impact of the measures on youth. I have asked them to look particularly at vulnerable and vulnerable children and young people, and – not least – I have asked them to assess the impact of the measures taken so far, so that we can draw lessons from it and make it even better the next time we decide which measures to take in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1648	‘The Left and the Solberg Government introduced skills requirements and further training for teachers in 2015, which has provided 50000 teachers with an offer of continuing training. Now, the government has to scrap the skills requirements of teachers trained before 2014 and with it an important incentive for the school owner to provide its employees with further training. How will the Council of State and the Government ensure that teachers receive the continuing training offered to them when there are no longer requirements in relation to municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1655	The most important thing for children and young people's learning, mastering and well-being is that they meet qualified teachers who have time to see each student. Teachers who were trained before 2014 have gained a long learning experience that is not necessarily reflected in formal competence and which is important for the government to recognise. That is why we want teachers who were trained before 2014 to be exempted from the requirement for a certain number of credits in the subjects in which they teach. In other words, we cancel the separation of many experienced teachers. I would also like to remind the representative that it was the Stoltenberg II government that initially introduced competence requirements for newly trained teachers. The government's goal is to keep the most of our teachers in school and fill in with skills where there is a need for it. The needs of the school owner, the needs of the pupils and the desire of the individual teacher to fill professionally are relevant to take account of the areas in which continuing training is to be provided. We want to ensure that schools have a wide range of competences, and we need to have a good dialogue with the parties on how the device is best suited to a school in development. Continuing training is a professional supplement that many teachers want and need. More than 11,000 teachers applied for further training last year, despite the fact that many of them were in a difficult situation because of the pandemic. Teachers who continued their training last year were satisfied with the offer. From the participant surveys, we also see that most of those taking continuing training are motivated by things other than the skills requirements. Most mention the motivation for continuing training: because I wanted to develop as a teacher, and because I was interested in learning more about the subject. The teachers have also applied for and received further training in subjects where there has been no requirement for competence. Half of the applications the school owners approved last year were in subjects other than the priority subjects. In addition, the competence requirements for teachers trained after 2014 continue to apply. There will therefore still be a need for further training for teachers as a result of the skills requirements. The changes made by the government in the skills requirements will allow for the re-prioritisation of the continuing training system so that the offer can be expanded to a wider range of disciplines and more adapted to local needs. As a start to this, we will facilitate the provision of further training in practical and aesthetic subjects in 2022. Furthermore, it will be important to look at the needs of the sector in the light of new curricula. Universities and colleges, the Directorate and the Department will of course continue to work actively with continuing education, but I have great confidence that school owners also want teachers with professional depression, and that they will ensure that teachers receive the training they need, even if the skills requirements change. I also have great confidence that the teachers themselves are concerned about learning and developing, and that they are going to seek continuing training even though the requirements are now changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1668	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that the previous red-green government was also concerned about this, although we know that the figures under the previous civil government showed that there was a historically high number offering continuing education – 47,000, up to 50,000. Therefore, given what the Council of State says, it is a little strange that the government is now going to scrape the qualification requirement for teachers trained before 2014 and thus also disappears an important incentive for school owners. Not just for the Left, but for society as a whole, it's important to focus on teachers' skills. The Workers' Party and the Center's solution mean that students of two other equal classes can be taught by teachers with quite different competences. It should be worrying also for the Council of State, for I know that she is very concerned about a good school for all children. My question to the Council of State will then be: When you remove this possibility that many teachers do not receive this requirement for continuing training, does not the Council of State become concerned about how this can be seen in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1675	I, the undersigned, am always concerned if we succeed in providing our students with our good enough education. At the same time, this conversion and dissemination of the subjects within which you can take continuing education is an expression of confidence – confidence that the individual teacher himself knows what you need, trust the individual school manager, who knows about the need for his or her school, and trust in the municipalities, who know something about his or her overall skills needs. Then I would say that the previous government's commitment to continuing education was good. We are also continuing this effort, because it is good to fill in skills through a working life, and it is good to update your knowledge. But learning is done in all disciplines and across subjects. That's why the government has a broader approach to knowledge than the previous government had. We want further and continuing training to take place in several disciplines, because learning takes place in several disciplines, and the subjects must work together for the benefit of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1684	It's good to hear that the Council of State is concerned, because you have every reason to be. At the same time, the fact that the teachers themselves have been quite satisfied with the way this continuing training offer has been. We in the Left believe that society's most important knowledge workers should have the opportunity to deepen and further develop during their careers. It is quite normal in society, as other professions have such demands and opportunities. Without further training of teachers who were trained according to old requirements, there could quickly be a gap of competence between new and previously educated teachers, and that's what we're concerned about. Because that's what I'm talking about, the evaluation of continuing education shows that teachers too believe that education is getting better after completion of further education. Then it should be a paradox to the Council of State that this government removes a system that teachers themselves think makes teaching better. The question is then: What is the Council of State understanding, which the teachers do not understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1691	At least I did not understand the arrangement for that question, if the point of the representative is the continuing training, because our efforts are similar to those of the previous government. I repeat once again: the government that sat before us had a good commitment to continuing education. We continue to do so, but we do not say that we control the subject from my office in the Ministry of Knowledge which subjects the individual teacher should take on- and on-the-job training within. It also has to be up to the individual teacher himself. I hope and believe that in the future teachers themselves will have clear ideas about which subjects they want to fill in, and that in the future they will also seek continuing training, but I trust that they will assess it for themselves. I do not think that Laila Hovstad, who was interviewed in Bergen's Official Journal in 2018 after working for 19 years at school and having experienced being separated and stamped as an unqualified teacher, felt that it was exactly the government's confidence when they asked her to sit down on the school bench in an explicit subject they had pointed to. I think the teachers themselves have a good and correct view of what they need to fill in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1703	‘The red level in school has recently affected students’ motivation and social inclusion. The blue-green government proposed to spend $240 million. kr to resume lost learning, while the current government together with SV cut 10 pst. in this measure. How has the Council of State planned to compensate for the extra burden on students as a result of the omicron shutdown, and the government intends to reverse the cut of 24 million. they did in the grants to resume lost learning?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1710	The coronary apathy has been a great burden for many children and young people, and the accumulation and government and kindergarten and school owners have a great responsibility to follow up and compensate for professional or social learning losses. The most important action we can take to ensure professional and social learning under a pandemic is to keep kindergartens and schools open. Before Christmas, we took control of a situation where more and more people would close kindergartens and schools by introducing national measures and reintroducing the traffic light model. We prioritised, as opposed to the previous government, the teachers in the vaccine queue, and to protests from the opposition, we gave the teachers exemptions from the quarantine rules. We have, unlike the previous government, also made it possible for students and pensioners to work in school without losing a scholarship or a pension. The government covers the additional costs of the municipal sector for pandemic management, e.g.: for temporary workers, overtime workers and additional clean-up services. A new agreement at least doubles the payment for overtime in kindergarten and school in the period from December 2021 to April 2022. All of this helps to keep schools and kindergartens open and prevent further loss of professional and social learning. The knowledge we have of the consequences of the pandemic suggests that some geographical areas and groups have been particularly affected. Therefore, different measures are required for different sites and for different groups. This was also one of the findings of the working group chaired by Grethe Hovde Parr in 2021, which the representative knows well. The measures proposed by the working group are mainly about strengthening and complementing existing work at school, such as: strengthening the students' team, extra hours for students who need it, facilitating mastering, motivation and community, and protecting resources for organisation. Unfortunately, we know from other sectors that even with generous compensation schemes, compensation has not taken place particularly well. On this very basis, unlike the previous government, we chose to target the funds for lost professional and social learning to the most vulnerable areas. In order to improve the follow-up to the Parr Committee report, I have commissioned the Directorate of Education to undertake more research into the consequences of the pandemic and what action is being taken. This is important in order to be able to follow-up students in the longer term. So the government works to follow-up, not only with short-term measures through specific appropriations, but also in the long term by contributing to good and predictable local economy. Although the representative is concerned that a post was cut by 10 p.m., I would like to remind you that the growth in the free income of the local government sector is 4.5 billion. NOK 2022. That's $2.50. more than the previous government's draft budget. Only in Oslo, which is the representative's own county, the primary school budget is strengthened by 72.5 million. kr as a result of the growth of the free income.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1725	I have to say, I react very strongly to the fact that a government council is providing so many incorrect information in an article. First of all, it was our suggestion to focus the pot on lost learning on the areas that were most infected. That's what we put into our state budget that we made last fall. Secondly, we have not protested about the quarantine rules for teachers. And thirdly, we also prioritised the teachers in the vaccine queue, as the only professional group, as well as health professionals and other employees in schools and kindergartens. Further to the question: this is the third school year of severe infectious disease prevention, and I think we fully agree that we wish that we had not implemented these measures. It is also the case that today's government implemented measures at the red level in January, against professional advice. I believe that they also have an additional responsibility to actually compensate for the cost it has. My experience as a knowledge minister was that giving general framework transfers to the municipalities did not give more money to the school. We have to label the media. What does the Council intend to do to ensure that the money reaches the individual student who needs extra follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1732	I am pleased that the representative Melby says that she is busy listening to professional advice. I guess that's not entirely in line with, for example. the examination discussion, which came after the recommendation of the Education Directorate the other day. But it's about one of the same thing, which action we're taking to get as much time as possible for each student in what's left of this school year. I think that over time, we need to keep an eye on how it develops for our children and young people. That is why I have asked that we evaluate the measures that have already been put in place and that we look at what more measures we can put in place. I think that if I were to shoot what would work for all students everywhere, we would have very poor solutions. We've given some money to now, and we're also going to do it in the future. We closely follow and evaluate the measures that have already been put in place, but we're done with this as the infection subsides, or this state budget expires, I think unfortunately we can't count on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1741	No, and that's really my whole point, that the consequences of this pandemic are going to be much longer than what the infectious diseases have done. That's why it's important that we use the opportunity we have now to give an extra bet to fix at least some of these consequences as quickly as possible, but that we also have a long-term plan. What I'm reacting to is that the government seems to be looking at the back in the light of these concrete measures. The measure to provide concrete funds for lost progress to the municipalities has been evaluated along the way, and this has shown that the money has been used very well. They have been used for increasing teacher density; they have been used for special follow-up for those students who need it; and for intensive training. Municipalities and schools have been given great freedom to manage these funds in the way they think is best. It is also to show confidence in the sector. So why is it this scheme you chose to cut? Why have there not been fresh funds for this scheme, so that all municipalities that have actually experienced closure could now have established that kind of offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1750	I can assure the representative that we are not in the back or in any way satisfied. We're still working in the future. But anyway, the most important thing we do is point 1: to keep schools and kindergartens open, and point 2: to make sure that municipalities and county councils have enough money and people to keep the wheels running and retake the lost learning locally. It is a major challenge for sick leave in schools and kindergartens, but I know that our municipalities and employees are doing everything they can to ensure that children and young people have the best possible offer. So I'm absolutely sure it's not the last time we're discussing this in this room, and it's hopefully not the last time anyone comes up with a good idea about what measures we can put in. But I think we should nevertheless be humiliating that part of the consequences the pandemic has had on children and young people, we don't quite overlook yet. We do not know well enough which measures can be put in place as precisely as possible. That's why it's among the things I want to look at when we follow up on this in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1772	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1780	‘Over the last eight years, more than 25 000 cases of abuse in close relationships have been recorded. In the same period, the reverse alarm system has only been used 65 times. Conversely, the alarm of violence increases the safety of victims of violence and means that victims of violence do not have to bear the burden of wearing a violent alarm. Victims of violence are frustrated that the scheme is not more widespread. This frustration shares SV. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that the scheme can be used by more people?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1787	I would like to thank the representative of Unneland for his commitment to this matter, which concerns an area that is also very important to the government. In the Hurdal platform, we are clear that violence in close relations and sexual abuse is to be given higher priority throughout the criminal justice chain. Violence in close relationships is a serious crime that, often, exposes the victim to gross acts in what should be the safest place, their own home, or other places where you need to feel safe. As the representative, I am also concerned that the contact ban with electronic control, which is also called the reverse violent alarm, will be used in the right cases. We need to protect victims of violence and threats, and the reverse alarm of violence is an important tool to achieve it. Being subjected to a violent act so that even having to walk around with a violent alarm afterwards can be experienced as an additional burden to those who are subjected to the violence. This should not be the case, and it is a violent – and not the victim – who should bear the burden in such situations, and we are helping to do so by increasing the use of the reverse violence alarm. In recent years, a number of measures have been implemented to increase the use of the reverse violence alarm, including the use of alcohol and alcohol. through a circular on the refusal of contact with electronic control by the Advocate General. The national lawyer also draws attention to the issue in its governance documents, including in the annual round of objectives and priorities. The Directorate of Police also implements empowerment measures, including: through a national webinar made available for long-term use in the entire police investigation, so that we get more awareness and attention about this, and that it can be more widely used. Reverse violence alert contacts have also been appointed in each police district. These act as drivers of the system in each police district. In addition, it has also been important for technology and equipment to be renewed so that it can be used more widely, because the figure is too low today. There has been a positive trend in the number of reverse violence alert claims since 2019, and the reverse violence alert has also been used in more and more cases. Many of the changes that have taken place in recent years are likely to contribute to the continuation of these positive developments. I am also concerned that the new government with the Workers' Party and the Centre is following this up as part of our desire to strengthen the fight against violence and abuse, and also better follow-up of victims of violence. There is currently also a proposal to open the use of the reverse violence alarm in the event of a breach of the visitation ban. It has been consulted, and such a change in legislation could also lower the threshold of use and make the reverse alarm of violence more readily available as protective measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1808	TV2 told the story to Anna, who lived in a violent relationship, who had to work very hard to get a violent alarm. Her story is unfortunately not unique, and she had a strong prayer to the Minister of Justice: if you want to save lives, then lower the threshold to use the reverse alarm of violence. Today, the police can issue large fines, they can expel people, and they can confiscate assets, but they can't execute reverse violence when there's a breach of a restraining order. The previous government sent proposals to consult to extend the reverse-violence alarm system. Now the matter is with the Ministry of Justice. One of the things the minister said to assess is to extend the funds to the police. Then I would like to ask the Minister: is it time to give the police the opportunity to put on a reverse alarm when someone breaks a restraining order?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1817	This proposal, as I said, is for evaluation in the ministry after the hearing. I think that it is in principle positive that we have moved on with this, that a consultation has been carried out and that a legislative proposal is on the steps. I believe, as the representative suggests, that it is important to strengthen the use of increased violence alarm. Then we have to look at the bases for that, in addition to what I was in the city, which is about the police's practice of the existing possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1822	SV is impatient, and the victims are impatient. This is about the mother who has to change jobs and move, the children who have to change school, the victims who always have to look over the shoulder to reach the pressure of the violence alarm. Conversely, a violent alarm reverses this, so that the attacker who does not comply with the visitation ban is electronically monitored so that the victims are protected. We in SV are ready to form a majority with the government if there's just a proposal for the Stortinget. Now the minister says that this is for evaluation in the Ministry of Justice, so my question will be: When can we expect such a proposal – when will it come to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1829	I can't say exactly when it will come to Stortinget, but I'm working on this, and I've been busy following up this since we got into the government. I'm happy that we can form a majority with SV to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1843	This question is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1851	‘It is stated in the Hurdals platform that the judicial reform is to be reversed, with the exception of places where there is agreement between the judges, the municipalities of the judiciary and the trustees to maintain the structure of the day. On 26 January, the Council of State was challenged whether one municipality should be able to run over three other municipalities and require a reversal. The council replied that ‘this we have to look at the total in’, suggesting that Ne's input is heavier than Drammen's input. Is the Council of State determined by what is stated in the Hurdal platform, which implies that each municipality has a right of veto?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1858	We have sent a proposal to take back the decentralised structure of the courts at the hearing after the previous government put up a more centralised structure, which I am afraid will lead to the dismantling of courts in the districts in the years to come. We've asked for input from anyone who wants to make a statement. The hearing is not restricted to any particulars. This means that both Drammen, Nes and other municipalities can comment on the matter. My point has been that it is important for me to listen to also the municipalities that are suing the court for the former independent courts, and not only the municipality that currently has the largest court in its municipality, such as. The drama. It's important that we take recordings from all over the country. I expect many different opinions to be expressed in the consultation round. This is a matter for which there has been a lot of discussion for many years. There have also been geographical differences related to what local opinions are about this. Norway is a diverse and varied country, and it is important to have good processes to ensure that all visions can be expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1865	I find that the Council of State does not answer the question directly. I want to follow up by saying that the process that the government has set up now involves throwing things out in a chaotic process, and that a substantial part of the power over the organisation of the courts is being transferred from the Storting to local politicians and trade unions, in line with what is on the platform. In that case, there is a whole new way of governing the organisation of state power. In the consultation note, there is no evidence that the government is discussing this issue. Nor under the chapter on fundamental questions does the government mention the most fundamental question of all, who should have power over the organisation of the courts. So my question is, what does the Council of State think about the principal aspects of leaving power over the organisation of the courts to local politicians, and why isn't this discussed in the hearing memo?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1872	What's new to this government's policy with regard to the courts is that we want to listen to different input from around the country. It did not want the previous government to take over when they sent the proposal to centralise the courts at the hearing. There were a lot of counterconceptions about merging the courts into larger units. A number of former independent courts were converted into courts against their will and against local views. I would like to encourage the representative Foss to avoid creating more control around this than that is the basis for, if you're worried that there'll be a lot of noise. This is quite simply: we have sent a proposal for a hearing. There, those who want it can express themselves. We have said that we want to go back to the decentralised court structure and restore independent courts, unless there is broad local consensus between the courts, the trust-elected and the municipalities to maintain today's structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1879	There is already a lot of noise from heavy players in the sector. I would like to follow up on a question of what is stated in the consultation note: ‘More sorority writers are better placed to maintain the balance of power between the courts and the other state powers.’ The question then is, What basis does the government have for such a claim? Will the government then take the initiative to break down the law-enforcement boards and hire more team members, which would obviously be a consequence if such a principle were to be applied?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1886	Norway has a tradition, spanning several centuries, of having independent sorenists around the country. The consequences of going away from it were something the previous government did not consider very carefully when it chose to centralise many of these sorrenprinters. There is also a trend that has been pushed through the campaign conducted by the Court of Justice in order to centralise the courts over a number of years, including: have introduced joint management, which was actually intended to be a narrow rule of exception for cases where, for example: a janitor of a dish has lost his pension, and then one has lost his janitor and been placed under another dish. I believe that has been an unfortunate development. I want a court structure that ensures local anchoring and ensures independent courts throughout Norway, also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1894	‘The Government proposes to reverse the solution with one common professional judicial environment in Sogn and Fjordane in the land change rights with permanent staff in all legal places at least at the same level as before, and greater opportunities for increased activity in the smaller legal places both in the districts and in the land change law. The Council of State says to the NRC that there is ‘disunity in the professional community’ if this makes sense. What professional environment does the government councils know that are inconsistent with the newly formed decentralised model of justice in Sogn and Fjordane, and that want to start a new reorganisation process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1901	As far as I know, I have not spoken about the professional environment in Sogn and Fjordane specifically recently, but on a general basis, the question is what structure you should have for land change rights and property rights, a question that involves a lot. That's what we're seeing in the media right now. For me, it's important that we have a good process on this. We have put forward a proposal to go back to the previous structure of the courts. We want a structure that is anchored locally, which can ensure independent and strong courts throughout the country also in the future, and I am afraid that the centralised structure with remote management over time will be able to challenge it. Then we have put this to the hearing, and we will take the opinions that come to the hearing seriously and look at the whole of it before we submit a final proposal on a new structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1908	It's quite unlikely to right a government council that comes here with concrete proposals to powder a new structure, concretely in Sogn and Fjordane, in a state where there's full professional agreement about what a no-do, come up with general claims that she sees in the media some other places in the country that there is disunity. Why does the government not go to the places where there is disunity in concrete terms, instead of going free and proposing to break up successful new organizations that are fully settled? I can quote Central Party spokesman Jenny Følling in Sunnfjord, who said it very well last week. She said that the merged units work well, and it is important to get calm and deliver quality. When there are general claims that there are concerns in some parts of the country, why does the Council of State not go into those areas specifically? Why does she propose to launch a new joint dispute in Sogn and Fjordne, in a state where a group of solutions has now been found, and where one now wants a little more peace. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1915	Even the fjords have to stay on time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1920	As can be seen from the Hurdal platform, which is also the basis for the consultation note, the government will make derogations where there is local agreement to maintain the structure. So if there's a full local consensus in Sogn and Fjordane, this isn't a problem for the representative. This will then be expressed in the hearing, and the matter is fine. I have sent out a proposal that applies to the whole country, and then – unlike the previous government, where the Left also sat – I intend to go into the recordings that are coming. They will be able to vary from place to place in Norway because Norway is a diverse and diverse country. Sometimes the new structure works well, while it doesn't work as well elsewhere, and I'll listen to that. The proposal put forward by the previous government was implemented without listening to local voices very many places, and I want to add up to a more democratic process than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1927	At least then, the government has confirmed that she does not know any inconsistency in the professional community in Sogn and Fjordane, and that what she suggests – for Sogn and Fjordane’s part – does not spring from any local desire, but because the government has said so in the Hurdal platform. So it's centrally determined by the Center Party and the Labour Party that one should go free on Sogn and Fjordane, even where there is full unity, and where she can't show anyone in the trade union that thinks that what she's proposing is a good idea. That's what I thought was interesting. So I also ask the Council of State: now you're standing on the Stockholm Chair, and the Council of State knows that changes have been made to the process on the basis of local recordings. The size increased, among others: the retention of the staff of courts in districts with the annual work of four judges or less, at least at the same level as at present. You know this, this isn't a scholastic debate, you're at Storting's pulpit. Then you say one can keep it if it's full local unity. Does that mean that if there is one municipality, run by right-hand center partyists, who want to go back to the old one, then there is not full local unity, and then can... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1934	The president wants to remind the representative that a person is talking through the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1939	I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1944	I do not want to accept that the representative attaches to me the kind of intentions or opinions that are said here, which I feel I do not have. I have been clear that I cannot decide what the structure of the courts should look like based on who is the most advanced in the public debate. But there is a lot of disagreement in this matter, and it has also been in the past. I look forward to receiving opinions through the hearing, and I will decide on the matter based on a thorough consultation round and a good process. Then I look forward to the fact that in the future we also have a good solution for both the District Court and the Land Change Court in Sogn and Fjordane. I believe that it is very fine if there is full local agreement that today's solution is good, and if not, I will consider changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1949	The ordinary question time has thus ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-02.ana.ud505e1963	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. - Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? That's not set, and the meeting is elevated.
