ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e74	The President will propose that the public gallery of infectious diseases be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e81	On behalf of the representative Marius Arion Nilsen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to amend the temporary law on social benefits to households as a result of extraordinary power expenditure. This bill is now being proposed because the administration of Storting thought it could not appear as a so-called 'loose' proposal in case No. 7 on the agenda today. We want the state to cover 80 pst. of costs above 50 cents, which is an estimate of 20 cents. kr. That is why it has to be a legislative amendment, which is proposed in this document. I therefore ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Paragraph 39(d) of the Rules of Procedure and in this way with Case No. 7 on the agenda today. It's in such a common debate this proposal belongs to home.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e88	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President is set to let Stortinget decide on the request made by the representative of Frank Edvard Sve. The agenda will therefore be further amended in such a way that case No. 11 will be taken before case No. 7th@item: inlistbox There will be a call to voting when we come to this matter. Furthermore, there will be voting at the end of the meeting, and the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e110	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e117	The design and practice of Storting’s financial arrangements for representatives has recently been explored. The background is that possible breaches of laws and guidelines have been identified. The fact that there are also doubts about the reasonableness of some of the arrangements is unfortunate for the trust in us elected people and in the Storting as an institution. It has therefore been a priority task for the presidency from the beginning of the autumn's session to ensure that it is cleared up in ambiguities and that all arrangements are reviewed. The Presidency has decided that the scope of the financial arrangements and how they will be regulated for the future should be followed up by extending the mandate of the sample entrusted with the operation of the commuting housing scheme for the depositors in the autumn. The committee has now been mandated to assess all financial arrangements for wholesalers. The committee has been asked to stress that it is possible to exercise the position of a magnificant on an almost equal basis, irrespective of the background and place of residence of the representatives, that the arrangements have a purpose and a justification for the legitimacy of the population, and that the arrangements are proportionate to similar arrangements for other groups of society. By 2 May 2022, the sample shall submit an interim report with proposals for general principles for the different financial arrangements and a final report containing any proposed amendments by 31 January 2023. The reports of the committee will provide a good basis for deciding on and debating future arrangements. However, today’s theme is investigations into the management of financial arrangements in time. After discussing the issue with the parliamentary leaders in November, the Presidency announced that they would take the initiative in a retrospective review of the financial arrangements for the representatives of the big business. The Presidency has assessed alternative ways of organising such work and has come to the conclusion that the National Audit Office is best placed to carry out such investigations. In addition, the National Audit Office has announced that it will carry out on its own initiative investigations into the commuting housing issue, the post-paid scheme and, where appropriate, other matters. The Presidency therefore suggests that the Stortinget, in compliance with the law on the Riksrevision § 9, asks the Riksrevision to initiate specific investigations into Stortinget’s financial arrangements for the large-scale representatives. It is proposed that the studies should cover the award of benefits to current or former depositors in breach of the gross grant law, other rules or guidelines laid down by the Stortinget or the Presidentship of the Stortinge, or agreements concluded relating to the schemes. In addition, it is proposed that the Riksrevision should examine the management by the Administration of the Storting and Storting on issues relating to the granting of benefits and the management of financial arrangements. The Presidency indicates that the National Audit Act presupposes that it is up to the Riksrevision itself to determine the detailed arrangements of the investigations. It will therefore be up to the National Audit Office to decide its own priorities on the basis of peer review considerations, including how thoroughly the audit will address each scheme and individual case. However, the Presidency presupposes that the arrangements for commuting housing, retirement benefits and reimbursement are among the priority schemes. The National Audit Office also determines how far back in time it is considered appropriate to conduct individual investigations. In its control and audit activities, the national audit generally does not address matters directly related to the circumstances of individuals. The Presidency therefore states that it should be clarified that the Riksrevision is to ensure legal certainty for the persons concerned in the investigations. If the National Audit Office needs specific legal remedies in order to carry out the investigations, the Presidency shall assume that this is dealt with immediately with by the Stortinget. It is requested that the Riksrevision launch the investigations quickly, based on the trust challenge of Stortinget as an institution, and that it work quickly but thoroughly. I would therefore recommend that the Stortinget take a decision in accordance with the unanimous vote of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e149	Let me first give tribute to the presidency for taking this initiative and to follow up on the fact that the Riksrevision is reviewing this – as the Riksrevision itself publicly stated that it wanted to do. All that has happened, and all the writings about unfortunate conditions in the practice of some rules for the staging representatives, it is time for a thorough review to be carried out in many different ways – and by different ones – as explained by the first Vice President Harberg. The Progress Party has always supported the work of cleaning up, and I can refer to a number of statements by our parliamentary leader Sylvi Listhaug in this way in a number of contexts, including: of course, where, after a review, it is discovered that representatives have been unduly provided with benefits, it shall be refunded. We all have in our heads the scandal of Nav, how common people who haven't done wrong have been punished. It would be totally unreasonable if it was made clear that wholesalers had unlawfully received benefits without having to pay it back. So we assume that that's what we're going to do. Otherwise, it's actually a little special day, because it's not common for the Parliament to ask the Riksrevision to examine whether the Storting's own administration, the Presidentship of the Stortinge and former representatives of the Stortinge have dealt with the laws and regulations of the Stortinge itself. I am very pleased that the presidency is following up the Riksrevision, so that you demonstrate that the Storting is also concerned about this and concerned about using its own apparatus, the Riksrevision, for a proper review. There may be some detail in the presidency position, because, as the presidency itself correctly says, the law does not open up so that the Stortinge can decide how the Riksrevision should proceed. It is clear that in this case one must be detained, and I also interpreted Svein Harberg's posts as a confirmation that it is the Riksrevision itself that is to direct its business. What is written in the presidency’s position is a number of points of view, but it is clearly understood that the Riksrevision itself determines what it will do — including how far back and what types of breaches of the legislation to be prosecuted. It is therefore quite clear that what is not mentioned in the presidency’s position does not mean that the Riksrevision itself can take the initiative to implement things. It is therefore totally wrong if someone tries to interpret the presidency's views as an attempt to limit the study. I would like to make it clear that it is the Riksrevision itself that completely sovereignly determines what it is going to do. So to anyone who had to try to say that here one has tried to limit the study: it's absolutely wrong. We agree with the recommendation that this study be carried out by the Riksrevision. In particular, I would like to mention personally that in the light of this somewhat unclear approach to the former presidency of the Grand Duchy, I would like to put two lines under which the National Audit Office will have the compliance audit of the Grand Duchy, as of all others. And I would like unconditionally to warmly welcome the Riksrevision to the Storting in order to implement what the Presidency has put forward in a good way here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e164	Norway is in a special political situation. People are tired, tired of long-term corona measures, and now they are also tired of power prices that plague and provoke people in their everyday lives. What we don't need in addition is a situation in which there is uncertainty about whether the people's representatives, the people's representatives, are actually dealing with the arrangements we need to do our job in a proper way – which does not mean that we are talking about advantages that we shouldn't have and that other people don't. One such situation, where there is discontent and there is distrust among people, is dangerous to the confidence of democracy. We don't have to. Therefore, the Green Party was already in the autumn offensive to ask the Great and the presidency to fully address these issues, taking full responsibility to show that there is no doubt that the Stortinge takes seriously the situation that has arisen with the abuse of the Stortinge regime. On 23 November we asked in a letter to the Presidency to inter alia: The National Audit Office was withdrawn and investigations were carried out into the use of schemes by all representatives back to the year 2000. We are therefore very pleased that the presidency has now presented a position which – as far as we can see – follows up these proposals on all points. By adopting this, Stortinget shows that we are now taking the matter seriously that the matter has to be dealt with, and that it is completely cleaned up. This is good for Norwegian democracy. The Green Party therefore joins the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e173	I just have a few comments. From the beginning of the autumn, there was a full consensus in the presidency that this would be taken seriously, and we were going to have a review of this. We have to be careful to separate two things. One work is to look forward. How are we going to have these arrangements? That work is in progress. The sample that was originally to look at the housing situation and arrangements around it has now received the full package of schemes, and that is good. The second was that there have been many suggestions on how this should be looked back on time. There could be an external commission, a sample, but what has been important to us, is to get it done quickly and by someone who knows the Storting. We know that the National Audit Office knows the Stortinget and the parliamentary work well. That's why we think it's been a good solution to land on it. So I just want to thank the representative Hagen for clarifying that there are no limitations to this decision. It is precisely the Riksaudition itself to figure this out, and we have asked them to look at the Storting's financial arrangements for the big business representatives. It means all arrangements where one has an economic advantage or compensation. They can look at that, and they have full freedom to do that. I think it should work well. So a comment to the representative Hansson, because he referred to a year: when you look at issues relating to individuals, it's important to deal with what's going on, including in relation to limitation periods. This may in some cases end up in the legal system, and then you have to have the opportunity to stand up for your case. That means that it must be within the limitation period in force. I am absolutely sure that the Riksaudition will take good care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e186	First, thank you to Svein Harberg, who also makes it clear that the Riksrevision is completely free, and that there is no limitation in what the presidency has written in its position. I did not have time in my first post to address another topic that I think is necessary to say something about, and it is also quite natural that the Riksrevision looks at the Prime Minister's office and the various arrangements that apply to the executive state power. There are commuter homes, car services and other conditions that may be checked in the seams to see if the practice is the way it should be. Issues have also arisen in the public debate about receiving taxable benefits. There I would like to say that the car service is a huge advantage for members of the presidency, parliamentary leaders and all state councils if it is used as a service to get back and forth to work every day. Then it's a taxable benefit, as I see it. However, where there is a written request or a decision of the PST on safety driving, i.e. a State Council, a member of the Presidency or a member of the Storting for security reasons shall not travel collectively and shall not move outside, it is not a taxable advantage at all. However, if you are taken home to be driven on a daily basis without such a safety assessment, it must be considered to be a work trip paid by the employer and it should be a taxable benefit. So the system of car services for state councils, presidential members, parliamentary leaders and possibly others should also be considered because we know that the tax authorities in private business are very nobody to pay taxes on taxable benefits from the employer to the employee. I hope that the tax authorities also look at the practice of these schemes, and that where there are pure, common reasons for convenience that indicate that you are being driven back and forth to work approximately every day, it should be reported as a taxable benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e212	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Progress Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Green 5 minutes and the Christian People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e219	Initially, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. It is positive that the main priorities of Norway for our period in the Security Council – peace diplomacy, women, peace and security, civil protection, and climate and security – are also firmly under the new government. It is important that they do so, because it increases our ability to influence and to care for Norwegian interests. Good priorities have been chosen for our presidency. It is positive that the Foreign Minister has continued the idea of implementing a kind of Oslo Forum in New York, then with the Council ambassadors and the UN Secretary-General, when we have not been able to implement the Oslo Forum in the usual way because of the pandemic. It is also reasonable not to add more than two signature events. It has essentially the same reason as the above, but in addition, it is important that the Council actually has time and space, under Norwegian leadership, to deal with what, after all, takes the most time and effort: the land situation. As a member, Norway must have clear positions on all matters on the Security Council's agenda. When we now complete the first days of this presidency period, unfortunately, there are a lot of country situations that have to take up the Council's time. There is a worsening situation in many countries that is already on the Council's agenda, and new land situations are emerging – and it is moving quickly. The role of Norway as a punitor has given some very important breakthroughs and results, including: for Syria and Afghanistan, but the situation is far from stable or resolved. Two of the country situations that took the most time at the very beginning of our period in the Security Council, Ethiopia and Myanmar, have gone from bad to worse. In Mali and Sudan, coups and military regimes have put development back a long way, and the danger of conflict is very real. In the Middle East, the situation is very unstable and can escalate quickly. The experience of May last year clearly shows this, but also at the end of December there was a development that could easily have come out of control. The brutality of opposition and human rights activists in Belarus, and the significant Russian military pressure against Ukraine, are also issues that now have the Council's attention. And in the morning hours today, the news of a dramatic escalation of government violence against demonstrators in Kazakhstan, with a large number of dead demonstrators and over 1,000 injured in the last day, has reached us. In recent years, I've been talking a lot about a world of anxiety and uncertainty. It describes developments globally in recent years, but is also directly relevant in Norwegian foreign policy. A Norwegian main interest is to maintain and strengthen the multilateral system and a world order governed by rules. Anxiety and uncertainty challenge Norwegian interests directly, whether in terms of security, economy or trade, or in terms of achieving progress in human rights, poverty reduction, climate or health – i.e. a large part of Norwegian foreign and security policy. We're going to have to live with this uncertainty in the years to come. We don't have a set and predictable world order on which to attach a label, whether it's unipolar, multipolar or bipolar. But it can also provide room for creative diplomacy from a small country with an interest-based, real policy approach and with profits to engage in areas where results can be achieved. This enables us to contribute to specific knowledge, competences and networks that the Council needs but that few other Council members can contribute. Norway has a good starting point for the period in the Security Council and for our presidency now in January. We have had consistent policies in important areas over time. It was not a completely separate security council policy that made us elected, but that we were politically recognizable, and that the countries that voted for us knew what they got. Some also knew that what they got, e.g. a clear policy on human rights was not something they liked. They did not vote for us either. We have recognized diplomats who know their subject. They work late and early to take care of Norwegian interests and expand our space for foreign policy action. Right now, during our membership period, and especially during the presidency, there is a huge pressure on the diplomats working directly with the Security Council, both in the United Nations Delegation, in the U.D. at home and outside innumerable embassies who actively contribute to the knowledge and understanding of the country situations on the Council's agenda. We have a good relationship with all the members of the Council and can work well with them in concrete matters. This is particularly important in relation to the five permanent members. Norway, through its membership, is also a very interesting interlocutor for many countries. This means that we are involved in setting the agenda, and it also gives us stronger platforms to promote Norwegian interests bilaterally in completely different fields than those handled by the Security Council. However, there is no doubt that the situation in the Council is demanding. Although 48 out of 57 resolutions last year were adopted unanimously, and only one veto was used, it is true that the Foreign Minister said in the statement: that these statistics should not be overplayed. The five permanent members act constructively in many respects, and the common voting patterns of Russia and China are no longer as automatic as before. But this does not mean that it is still very difficult to change the vision of the major powers when their main interests are affected. There is also no doubt that membership of the Security Council requires considerable political commitment and effort, and there must be a lot of work to contribute to the results we will achieve. The Minister of Foreign Affairs points out that the government will increase Norwegian contributions to UN peace operations. It is important to make real assessments of the contributions involved, the operations involved and the assumptions under which they are made. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself says that these operations are now taking place in increasingly unbridled situations. The UN operation MINUSMA in Mali, which Norway has been making considerable contributions for a long time, is also the most dangerous and deadly operation in the United Nations. Contributions to UN operations must be subject to as robust and realistic risk assessments as any other operation involving Norway with military personnel. The Foreign Minister began and concluded the presentation with the story of the Council of State Lehmkuhl, both in the form of the ship bearing his name, and in the form of his efforts in the government of Michelsen in 1905. 1905 was known as the year in which the Norwegian foreign service was founded. The French have called this time in European history ‘la belle époque’ and the world had left behind a longer period of stability and growth. But now the conference diplomacy that had secured decades of stability, signs of wear, and it rebounded to rivalry between the major powers. In meeting this change of weather, Norway chose neutrality – it was seen as the safest choice – and the questions from the debate of dateda tell us a lot about the thinking of this period: do we really need diplomacy and foreign policy? Don't you think it's just inviting you to the big-time press? Wouldn't a consulate and trade alone be best for a small country with an open economy? The debate paused gradually, but it gave life to a new change of words, this time about the value of the defense. Does a neutral country really need proper defence? Isn't neutrality guard good enough for little Norway? Today we know how fateful those elections were. Nevertheless: When we officially launched Norway's campaign for a seat in the Security Council in 2018, a debate arose that had surprising similarities with the word change in the last century. There were several who asked whether Norway should refrain from taking on heavy and forward jobs in the United Nations, in order to avoid being subjected to the heavy duty force. My answer in 2018 was the same as it is today: This pressure already exists, whether we engage or not. We meet it every day, both inside and outside the Security Council, but it's only by engaging that we can share in shaping our own destiny in the world. As a member of the Security Council, we have experienced that Norway, through targeted efforts and creative and knowledge-based diplomacy based on basic international standards, is able to bring forward issues and achieve compromises of real significance. However, the debate on Norway’s handling of the powerpress is a sign of health. It shows that people reflect on the climate change that is now taking place in international policy, and are aware that the space for action in Norwegian foreign policy does not come about by itself. We have to work for it, and it has always been defined by our ability to form alliances. In the end, I wish everyone, both outdoors and at home, who is now working around the clock with the Security Council, good luck – both with a demanding presidency and with the last year of membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e268	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good and honest presentation. It was a good analysis to show clearly what ambitions Norway has for its work. I would like to thank her for inviting the Stortinget to debate how Norway can use the role we have this month and this year to make the world a better and more peaceful place. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee for the efforts she made to get Norway elected, and for the job she did in representing us until the government change. Fortunately, there is agreement between the blocks on the most important thing. The work of the Security Council is not about having the purest or most obvious positions. We have other forums for that. It is about finding solutions and proposals that can provide support to make the world safer. In the statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs came up with many examples of Norway’s success in doing just that, when we have made a difference and got help. She also provided examples of when we have not been able to act, for example. in the situation in Myanmar. We don't know what's going to be on the Security Council's agenda, because it's a lot of what's going on out there -- conflicts that blow up quickly, and that make the Council have to be called together. Right now there are many places in the world where there is a danger of just that. Just because so much is event-driven, it is important to have clear ambitions about what Norway is going to put on the agenda. We have two signature exposures: women and war and the protection of civilians in urban areas. It goes like a red thread in government engagement policy – equality and disarmament legislation. I want to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on each of their events, and I hope that they will also meet outside the Teams or other digital meeting venues. In 2007, the Norwegian Nobel Committee awarded the Peace Prize to the United Nations Climate Panel and Al Gore. They were foresight when they saw the connection between climate and security. Climate change is perhaps the greatest threat to world security today, including armed conflict. Natural disasters and lack of resources will bring people into poverty and make us more vulnerable to war. That's why we now see that there are more people in uniform who are engaged in the climate issue. It appeared natural when NATO’s Secretary-General took part in the UN Climate Change Summit. Nevertheless, we see that this is politically controversial. There is no consensus among the members of the Security Council that this is part of the agenda. Therefore, it is very good that Norway has contributed to some progress. In this area, it is necessary that countries such as Norway continue to work for the link between climate and safety. An unresolved issue on the Security Council agenda is the conflict between Israel and Palestine. There's a conflict that unfortunately is further away from a solution than perhaps ever. The coating on the ground finds new shapes. The humanitarian situation in Gaza is difficult, and Palestinian civil society is being strangled. On the Palestinian side, we see division, and it is serious that there has not yet been a choice. But it is precisely when it is as tough as hell that we must not lose hope that peace is possible. Although there are now other conflicts in the world that get more attention, it is important that Norway, with its long historical commitment, does not give up and constantly search for new dynamics that can make us get to what we dream of – a Palestinian state that will live side by side with Israel. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister is taking on the leadership role she intends to take on during the month she is President of the Security Council. The Security Council may rightly be called the world’s main meeting room. It's a room to which Norway has a very close relationship. The room itself is a gift from Norway. When the Foreign Minister this month sits in the President's seat in the Security Council, there is a painting by Per Krohg behind her. When the painting was handed over by Prime Minister Oscar Torp to the UN Secretary-General, Trygve Lie, Per Krohg said: ‘The essence of the idea is to give the impression of light, safety and joy. The world we see in the foreground collapses, while the new world is based on clarity and harmony, and can be built up." It's a picture that fits very well -- maybe especially in the year we're going into now, in the year of the pandemic. If we get into the goal of a world based on harmony in the course of 2022, I don't know. But what I know is that the government is going to use the opportunity we have, to make the world a safer place, to secure peace and to make the world a better place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e288	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and informative presentation of Norway's work in the UN Security Council. The United Nations is essential for a country like Norway – a small country with an open economy and a need for contact, stability and dialogue with many other countries around the world. So many decades after its establishment, the United Nations' first task has continued to step by step to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security. All countries must take their share of the responsibility for being active in this part of the UN work, and therefore it is also important that Norway seize both the opportunity and the responsibilities of the UN Security Council. At its best, the UN and the Security Council are the world's most important forum for dialogue and a gathering point for all the nations of the world. At its worst, the UN is a huge bureaucracy. Our task must be to promote the best in the United Nations and to slow down the worst. It must also be our task, we who are happy in the UN, to be willing to say both about the good and about the bad aspects of the UN work. The UN is important for our stability, for security, for international law and for our economy. The UN is a path that can lead, but it is not always the fastest way to the goal. I very much like that quote from Dag Hammarskjöld, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred. He has said that the UN is not a guarantee of peace, but it is a necessary tool in our society's quest to secure peace. The UN is a lot of process, but it's also in the nature of the organization. Throughout the post-war period, the UN has tried this in more or less good ways, but always step by step. One has not always succeeded, and the Foreign Minister's statement also shows how difficult it is today, with major regional conflicts in both Africa and Asia. The situation in Ethiopia is alarming. The same thing is true of Myanmar. It is disappointing that, in relation to these types of conflicts, the UN is unable to play the role that one should do under the UN Charter, because of conflicting interests in the Security Council. The more important it is that one has a clear role to play in other difficult conflicts, both in terms of humanitarian aid to Syria, to Afghanistan and also in terms of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The role of the UN in peacekeeping operations is also incredibly important. These are operations in increasingly troubled and unknown terrain, national conflicts are spreading over regionally, many parties are involved in the conflicts, and in many places it has not been possible to establish a peace agreement or the conclusion of an agreement that exists is limited. Nevertheless, peacekeeping operations play a very important role and will continue to play in the years ahead. The centre party wishes to contribute to increasing the contribution to these operations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, was quite comprehensive about the risk of being caught up in a big-time act. It will always be there for members of the Security Council, for foreign policy is interest policy both for small and too large nations. Then it is also important when the foreign minister stresses that we have so far been able to stand firm in that pressure and be able to maintain an independent Norwegian voice. It's very important. The Central Party is pleased that Norway can participate in formulating decisions and laying down political lines and also take our share of the responsibility for the long-term and fundamental peace work to be taken part in the UN Security Council. We also want all those who are now working on the demanding work, both during the presidency period of this month and throughout the next year, to be happy with the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e307	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously stated that the Labour Party puts Norwegian interests first. Yesterday's presentation was then either a broken election vow or a solid belly pad. Or is it in Norway's interest that all conflicts on the planet should have Norway's focus? Is the situation and conflict in Yemen, Libya, Myanmar, Somalia, Syria, Ghana, Chad, Nigeria, Niger, Cameroon or the Sahel region something Norway should engage in? I understand that some politicians, public whites, tax-funded interest groups and diplomacy think such conflicts are interesting, but what about the Nordics most? This is a country where the few Nordics can point out on the map. As all former foreign ministers before her, the Foreign Minister showed the broad cross-political consensus and the long lines of Norwegian foreign policy. I would rather characterize it as a big guess where the government and the diplomatic corps have taken control and do as they have always done. And grace the one who thinks outside the box and challenges the broad cross-political line! So the classic cliché: A strong UN is crucial for Norway’s security and Norwegian interests. Then the question is, what kind of UN is what we want to be strong? The Minister of Foreign Affairs states that a strong UN serving Norwegian interests is a UN that promotes international law and law and protects the small countries from the power of the big ones. Is it really a United Nations that serves our interests? In the United Nations, all the small nations that commit the crimes that are decided at different levels in the United Nations must do something about it. There are representatives of countries based on corruption, undemocratic states that oppress their own population, countries that daily violate human rights, countries that violate international law, countries that treat women as second-class citizens. In the United Nations, they all have one vote. They agree with various resolutions, opinions and decisions condemning practices they themselves carry out. It's full of double morals. Is it a UN that strengthens Norway's interests? Is this country we want to be protected from the power of the great? We're lucky that it's the Western powers based on the liberal values, limits of power and balance of power that have been leading the UN since the beginning. But what will happen to the UN if Western domination disappears and non-democratic authoritarian regimes that build their authority on power concentration and power use put the tone in the United Nations bodies? We already see it today. The democratic powers of the West gradually reduce their global influence, and what remains then is a UN sign of relevance and credibility. Will a strong UN still be in Norway's interest? Norway must be firmly planted on the side of democracy. We should not show understanding of totalitarian states, nor defend their influence in the UN no matter how small they may be. Then our place in the Security Council is a source of conflict, not a place where Norway's interests are taken care of. The fact that the elite more than tax funded stakeholder organisations focus on all the different lines of conflict that the Foreign Minister has framed does not mean that the government of ordinary people and people should spend most of their time, resources and prestige on playing a global Bør Børson. The Progress Party believes that Norway should rather engage in and focus on issues related to ordinary people in its everyday lives, and there are many of them – industrial policy access to global markets, migration from defunct countries, cross-border exchange of power, the north, our role in NATO and security policy, increasing influence of totalitarian Islam in Europe, to name a few. Then the UN Security Council is not a relevant arena. Not surprisingly, the Foreign Minister has hoped for the fashion wave that everything that is sad and dull can be traced to climate change. Climate change is again a result of emissions from human activity, which have to be limited. This will create a link between emissions on Norwegian soil and conflict over grazing areas in the Sahel region. Not least, it's convenient, because not only do you take away the country's own responsibility, but you easily push it over to others. If you follow this logic, everything is related to everything. It's the butterfly effect described here: The wings of a butterfly in Brazil can trigger a tornado in Texas. You also find what you want to find. Conflicts are complex. One has to wonder whether conditions in the poor countries of Africa were particularly much better before all poverty was related to climate change. When the bill is due to be settled by the end of 2022, it is reasonable to be sure that Norway’s efforts in the Security Council have not made a major part of the world’s differences. Nor has Norwegian interests been defended or explained. The world will be equally conflicted. Self-crushing and good words won't change this. However, it is certain that our participation in the Security Council has ensured Norwegian diplomats and civil servants opportunities they could otherwise only have dreamed of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e328	The Minister for Foreign Affairs drew up his speech yesterday, stressing that Norway should have an independent voice and not be a caste in international politics. The minister also said that it is in Norwegian interest to defend international law and international agreements. There were a lot more things to enjoy in this post yesterday. Norway has also chosen important and good priorities for the work of the two years in which we live, and for the Presidency in January – at least at the heading level. It concerns the diplomacy of peace, the inclusion of women in peace processes, the protection of civil, climate and security. The question is how brave Norway is in practice, even in situations where the objective of having an independent vote and defending international law leads us to collision courses with allied major powers. I would like to challenge some of these priorities and some of the country situations that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has given particular attention to. To start with the first, to use peace diplomacy: there are a number of conflicts in the world above, and the question is what kind of initiative Norway will take to prevent a negative development. I have two examples: in our own region Ukraine worries a lot. Isn't it also in place here with a little self-intelligence also in the role of NATO in contributing to the conflict? Another example applies to Israel and Palestine. So the Foreign Minister will hold an open meeting on the Israel–Palestine conflict in the Security Council. What will be the main message of Norway at this meeting? SV will ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to address the illegitimate Israeli new building on Palestinian land. There is now a space between 600,000 and 750,000 Israelis on occupied Palestinian soil, and new settlements are planned. Both the United Nations and the United States have reacted strongly in words, and almost all experts believe that Israeli new buildings are not just incompatible with international law; it is also one of the most important single reasons why one does not progress in peace. At the same time, there is almost no concrete response to the new Israeli buildings. Will Norway then take the initiative in penalising Israel to push forward a stop in the new building? Priority number two is to include women. Here again I will give honor to the government. And then I'm going to add that after the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan, Norway has taken over ten very prominent Afghan women's rights activists, civil society leaders and politicians. Among them is Nargis Nehan, former Minister of Oil, Mining and Industry, and Jamila Afghani, a feminist and one of the leading women's, education and peace activists in Afghanistan. SV will ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Government to make sure that they do everything possible to facilitate the participation of these women in peace negotiations and other international meetings, that they have the travel documents they need, that the Norwegian U.D. maintains close contact with them to get their input into Norway's policy when it comes to Afghanistan, and that the government considers that they are allowed to be busied in the Austland area, so that they can more easily do their important work together with other Afghans in Norway – for a democratic Afghanistan where women's rights are respected. Finally, I would like to say more about the situation in Afghanistan, because the Foreign Minister paid particular attention to the current crisis, including, among other things, the situation in Afghanistan. the exemption from the Taliban sanctions regime agreed by the Security Council. That's good. But the sanctions imposed by the United States and the United Nations are still a major problem in order to get money into the country, and in order to counter the humanitarian disaster that is now taking place. SV would therefore ask that the adaptation of the UN sanctions regime now be placed at the top of the agenda, so that normal banking activities can be resumed and the focus on broad and country-wide development programmes can be relaunched.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e343	I want to start by congratulating both the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Government and the Stortinget on Norway's place in the Security Council and on the leadership role we are now taking. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated yesterday, this has happened thanks to a broad effort by almost all parties on the Stortinget and not least the current head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Ine Eriksen Soreide. It assures me that the Minister for Foreign Affairs started his presentation by focusing on two important themes: climate and women's rights. No doubt climate is a major safety challenge. Of the countries that are going to notice the impact of global warming the most, a large proportion are also in different conflicts. This will be a very negative spiral because these conflicts prevent measures that can alleviate the impacts of climate change. At the same time, we still have climate change that reinforces the impact of war and uncertainty. What I was going to spend the most time in my speech is talking about a conflict that the Foreign Minister did not mention in his statement to the Storting, namely, the grueling and unresolved war between Russia and Ukraine, eight years after Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula. Today, about 100,000 Russian soldiers are standing along the border with Ukraine. The Russian President uses this presence to push forward negotiations on his premises. When the veto members of the Security Council are involved in a conflict, there is rarely any easy solution to find in the same board. Nevertheless, it is essential for members — and especially for the head of the Security Council — to address these conflicts, just as other conflicts are addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself used the word Trygve Lie to say that the UN is not a fast and easy way, but a road leading if the Member States wisely, loyally and firmly use the institutions of the UN Organisation. This also applies to permanent members of the Council. Russia has presented a number of demands for the negotiations to which they are now playing, and in particular one of Putin's demands is absolutely impossible for liberal democracy to accept, namely that there should be restrictions on an OSCE country's right to decide which alliances it should belong to. In the context of the UN and NATO, and in the OSCE, we must be clear that the fundamental principle of freedom of alliance must apply to all countries and in the future. Ukraine, Georgia and other countries that are thus pressured by Russia deserve our wholehearted support. Although the path to both EU and NATO membership may be far away from those countries, we should never close the doors in order for those who want it to be allowed to apply for membership. We need dialogue, including with authoritarian regimes like Russia and China. Therefore, it is good that we have taken the place in the Security Council. But that is also the reason why we need to use such a place to address difficult issues relating to major powers, whether that is the situation in Ukraine or that is the situation in Hong Kong. All countries are losing on a new Russian invasion of Ukraine, not least Russia and Putin themselves. We must therefore use the international arenas where we have influence, to facilitate dialogue, even where the challenges seem most insurmountable. The Security Council was created in many ways to resolve the major conflict of power that led to World War II. It is important that we contribute to Mussolini's old judgment over the League of Nations – that it is important and works when sparrows fight, but useless when eagles quarrel – not become the Security Council's scourge. Therefore, I hope that the Foreign Minister did not mention Ukraine in his statement was not a signal of what Norway places on its Presidency, and that it will be down-prioritised in the amount of other challenges that threaten world peace. Finally, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to live up to the words she uttered in the Chamber yesterday, that Norway's voice should be independent, including in the Security Council, and also from the attempts of the major powers to dominate the Council. It was just the promise of independence that the overwhelming majority in this Chamber during both the previous and current government worked so hard to win Norway a seat in the Council. I look forward to following Norway's Presidency and hope that we in the Chamber can help ensure Norway's weight, impact and continued independence in this important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e362	Since 1990, there has been a dramatic breach of what has been a supporter of Norwegian policy since we received the Constitution in 1814, namely that Norway should support peaceful relations between states and peoples and not participate in the war of aggression. Without any clear decision and even without a thorough democratic debate, US loyal politicians have thrown waste on Norway's peace tradition and dragged us into questionable wars in both Afghanistan, Mali, Libya, Syria and Iraq. It is still said from the government team that Norway’s first line defence is international law, and that must be so, because international law’s prohibition of the war of aggression is absolutely necessary in order for small states such as Norway to maintain their independence over time and not give up for military stronger states. Unfortunately, the same governments contribute to the opposite in practice. In the Libyan War, the UN mandate was broken and abused for war of regime change with consequences that were devastating both to millions of people and also to Norway's first line defense, international law, which erods every time the major acts break the war ban of the United Nations Pact and use military power to force their will through. Red has consistently opposed these wars. Now we are at the head of reintroducing common sense into Norwegian foreign and defence policy, that the defence will be used to defend Norway, not to engage in assault wars that undermine the UN and international law, and also for more transparency and popular control in decisions on Norwegian participation in the war. Today, the Stortinget will vote on the Redt's proposal for a democratic anchoring of Norway's action in the Security Council following the model of the European Committee. The government's vote in the Security Council is ultimately about life and death for millions of people around the world and can decide whether Norway is being dragged into new wars or not. Then we should have a system to ensure that the Storting is informed in advance, and that important decisions are taken with open democratic debate in front and not in the hidden behind closed doors. By opening up Norwegian participation in the aggressive wars of the United States and NATO, the Norwegian political elite has not only thrown waste on Norway's peace tradition, but also made Norway responsible for the so-called war on terrorism in the United States, which has led to hundreds of thousands of deaths and an enormous flowering of Islamic terrorist groups right outside Europe's living room door, and which has also destroyed the livelihood of tens of millions of people, while the war profitors have, of course, earned billions of dollars on these civil sufferings over many, many years. That is why I am pleased that the Foreign Minister now says she will use the Presidency to ensure that the victims of the war are heard in the Security Council. She can consider initially inviting some of the up against the 60 million people who are driven away because of the so-called war on terror in the United States, in which Norway has unfortunately participated. If the government does, Norway can contribute to international peace, which is the primary purpose of the Security Council, and also help prevent new wars, which we have seen too many examples of. On the other hand, if we do not celebrate at our own door, but only bring forward the victims of other countries' warfare, it can – perhaps rightly – be seen as a somewhat hypocritical position from Norway in the Security Council. In the government platform they promise to work to protect children in war. Based on a cooperation with the Red Children, Red today promotes two proposals to take action to protect children who are interned in war, knowing that the only real protection, that is to say, in a lasting way, is to ensure peace and prevent the breakup of the UN war ban. In addition, we propose that Norway take the initiative in the Security Council to impose sanctions on NATO country Turkey and also NATO partner Israel's serious violations of international law. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e381	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e387	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the statement on the plans for the Norwegian presidency period. The themes planned for the two signature events, Women, Peace and Security and Civil Protection in Urban Warfare, are important and good. We know that in the wake of the coronary apathy there has been a sharp increase in violence against women. The same negative trend is also evident in war and conflict situations. Violence and fear of violence hinder women from contributing and participating. It is therefore so important to follow up the so-called 1325 resolution by increasing women's participation and gender perspective across the UN's peace and security efforts. That work needs to be strengthened, and we need to use that opportunity now under the direction of Norway. Even when specific country situations are discussed in the Council, such as Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Myanmar, Sudan and Colombia, it is important that Norway promote women's participation and protection against gender-based violence. In addition, Norway’s vote in the Security Council should be a strong voice for the inclusion of representatives of civil society. They have unique knowledge of what's happening on the grassroots and the situation of marginalised groups. Without the involvement of civil society, it is difficult to find sustainable solutions supported by the population. Here, too, religious, faith-based actors play a central role in very many countries. Leaders in religious communities are often very important in facilitating humanitarian access and protection of civilians. Their support can often be crucial to ensuring popular legitimacy for negotiated solutions. So understanding the role of religious communities in creating sustainable peace, trust and social cohesion is therefore essential. In March last year, Norway was in favour of a meeting on religion and conflict, which was initiated by the United Kingdom. Our message was: Play on teams of faith-based actors, and – not least – protect religious minorities in conflict situations. This is a message that Norway must continue to deliver. Persecution of believers has increased during the pandemic. It creates distrust, fragmentation and undermines important commitment to peace and dialogue. Several times since the military coup, Norway has contributed to the situation in Myanmar being addressed by the Security Council. The humanitarian crisis in the country is now increasing day by day, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was in his intervention. The Christian People's Party's call is clear: Norway must continue to address the matter to the people of Myanmar in the Security Council. Numbers and reports we get, testifying about atrocities and enormous suffering that must end. The situation in Ethiopia is also deeply serious. World society cannot close its eyes to the human suffering and abuses that are now taking place there. Also in Sudan we see an increasingly tense situation, not least now, after Prime Minister Hamdok just after the coup and the consequences of it went out and said he would go off. The fear of more violence from the military forces is real, and the democratic processes in the country are in the process of completely derailing. Here, the Security Council must be active, united and clear to the military leaders before the situation escalates further. The Minister of Foreign Affairs less affected the significant security challenges that have built up on our own continent. There are situations that should definitely be at the Security Council’s table. We have the brutal conduct of Belarus against the oppositional and shameful use of migrants to create political instability in the neighbouring country. We also have Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and the recent formation of troops along the border with Ukraine. Norway should remain crystal clear in its opinions on the negative developments we see in our European neighbourhood. Finally, I would urge the government to keep up the pressure on climate and security, even though it is difficult to adopt something about it in the Council. At all, the Christian People's Party wants a stronger focus on the importance of long-term development for security and peaceful coexistence. Food security, as we hear, is also about security – in a double sense. The catastrophic food crisis that we now see in the poor part of the world is exacerbated by conflict, climate and covid. It threatens stability, drives people on the run and increases recruitment to rebel and terror groups. Norway should contribute through the time of the Security Council to the importance of these long-term development policy themes in the important work on peace and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e408	The President sees that the representative Ulstein had been working well, because the clock didn't work, but he met at the time anyway. We have one clock here that's counting, and then we'll see if we make the other one work on the next post, which is from Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt. If it doesn't work, at least the president has to give notice when there's 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e415	Thank you for a good discussion, which basically addresses many of the conflicts in the world that I think it is important that we have another eye when we run the Security Council. The problem is that the Security Council does not address its primary positions, because we depend on all Council members to be involved in adopting an agenda. So this work is not about Norway promoting its primary position, and then possibly going down with the flag to the top. Then you get to make the mark, but you can't do anything. That's what's the basis for this presidency. Now we have adopted the agenda that we thought was important, and put on the agenda those questions – even though some other countries might have made other priorities. The representative Tybring-Gjedde said – he always inspires me: and graced the one who dared to think outside the box. I believe that, in my speech yesterday, I said the opposite, that the Progress Party through the discussions we have had in Stortinget has contributed to many questions being asked by a number of things there is a broad political consensus on the Stortinget and Norwegian foreign policy. I mean, it's good. I'm being challenged to stand up for what I think is important in that context. When there are fewer democracies in the world, I believe it is absolutely in Norwegian own interest to defend international law. That we as a small country, but a large country in the United Nations, are in favour of standing up for international laws and regulations and universal human rights to apply, I believe, is in Norwegian own interest. Few countries in the world are as dependent on international law as Norway. If we look at our seas: the reason Norway has large seas is precisely based on international agreements. So when we defend international law, when we defend a regulated world, when we defend that conflicts between countries are to be settled in international forums, this is just a very strong Norwegian self-interest. So I'm going to put that at the top of the agenda even in time to come. The question of Ukraine was on the agenda. Now it's handled primarily in other ways. It is now managed through the OSCE, which is a very important regional organisation for Norway. I think it's important, and it's something that both Fiskaa and Melby had in mind, that in time we have to be very, very clear that it's a country that decides which alliance to have. And as the representative Eriksen Soreide was in his post, it was Norway itself who decided in 1905 that we should be a neutral country, and we ourselves decided in 1948 that we should be a member of NATO. That must be the basis for how we deal with Ukraine and other countries. For this reason, our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Finland, are very concerned about now stressing that this is something that each country needs to decide on on its own. In a way, there should be no spheres of interest in which the neighbouring country should define the kind of alliance relationship. The representatives of August and Fisca were also in Palestine. There we have to be quite clear on settlements, that we are against these, and that it is breaking with what is the road to peace. With regard to the Taliban and Afghanistan, we are committed to finding solutions to help the civilian population in the current situation. They are facing a terrible famine unless humanitarian aid is provided in Afghanistan. In the case of Kazakhstan, which Eriksen Soreide had in mind, we urge the authorities and others involved in Kazakhstan to respect their international obligations. It is important to protect human rights, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression as well as life and property. Demonstrations in several cities in Kazakhstan in the last few days are due to an initial increase in fuel prices to include: vehicle, and of course people are allowed to demonstrate. It's part of the public vocabulary that we see is threatened in a lot of countries, but we can see that some democracies are being attacked from within. Elections are being held, and politicians are being given more or less popular support, but freedom of expression is being attacked through the courts, which can no longer be independent, and freedom of the press and the right to civil society. That's why civil society, that we bring those voices to the table in the Security Council, is very important in the period we sit as leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e432	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e437	On 1 February last year, a military coup was held in Myanmar, and it was naturally a matter that was very high on the Security Council's agenda early in our Security Council period. It is also true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, that regional organisations are often very important for the work, including in the Security Council, and cooperate with them. ASEAN was designated as having a special role in relation to Myanmar, and they also designated their own special mission, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brunei. Now Cambodia has taken over the leadership of ASEAN, and in principle it has not done much, if anything, in the period from the military coup to now. So my question is, how does Norway imagine that during our presidential term we can put pressure on ASEAN to contribute to a change in Myanmar?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e444	This is one of the most difficult areas, and an area where I also believe the Security Council has not been able to play the role that we are going to do. Therefore, it has been important for Norway to maintain dialogue with ASEAN and also to have talks with Cambodia, which is now in the leadership role of ASEAN, in order to make progress in these negotiations. What we're doing is we're continuing our long-term and strong commitment to Myanmar. The political situation after the coup is locked up, which the representative is in. What we're doing is supporting democratic forces, free media and also civil society, both political and economic, and we're constantly working to set up the aid so that it reaches out to as many people as possible within the framework of what's feasible. But the political solution is difficult. I can't say anything more specific about it right now, but we're working very actively on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e449	Peace diplomacy – taste a bit of it – we are happy about it, and we have engaged ourselves roughly on the whole planet: Israel, the Palestinian self-government areas, Colombia, we have been in Asia and Africa, Sudan, South Sudan – and common to them is that there is no peace there, it is as bad as it was. Well, we've got some musicals on Broadway, and we've got some Peace Prize winners, but there's no peace. What common people are the Foreign Minister associating, who has asked us to deal with these so-called peace-making conflicts, or the solutions? When I get started, I don't go and say, "What have you done in South Sudan?" And if that's the question, then it's the elite you're dealing with, the academic elite, the tax-funded, the organizations -- it's not the people most, and we're going to do the most politics for people. So the question is, what common people are the Foreign Minister associating?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e459	I think I hang out with a lot of normal people at Jessheim. If we might count up in our neighborhoods, I guess the usual people we're dealing with are both. I remember during the debate here that there are significant similarities between the criticisms of the Moxnes and Tybring-Gjedde, and that may be why you weren't to be a member of the Security Council either. But at least the Progress Party, which is concerned with refugee flows in the world – we see that where there are refugee flows, there are great warriors, so the solution to some refugee disasters is to contribute to peace. Then, as a rule, we fail in our peace initiatives, it usually does not lead, but when it leads, it has such enormous significance for the people it is about, and also for refugee flows in the world. So I believe there is a great deal of excitement in Norway about Norwegian foreign policy, and also about the peace initiatives that Norway should and should take.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e466	There were a lot of clichés here. They're talking about refugee flows. Firstly, the vast majority of migrants who come are not from the poorest countries, and in addition, there have been more migrants in the years we have run with so-called 'peace diplomacy'. So you can't say that you're doing peace diplomacy because you don't want refugees and migrants, and then there's refugees and migrants, and then you're going to fail with a diploma of peace. It's not related. And it's not like there's a broad consensus among the people most and ordinary people that Norway is going to hold on to how you're doing. There are so many things we can do to promote Norway's interests, as I also mentioned in my post. Trade is interesting, trade with China, for example, but we don't have to sit in the Security Council to do that. We have power supply, which we need to control, defence policy, the North, NATO policy, security policy – these are things that we can be concerned about. So where are these common people, at Jessheim or elsewhere, who have asked the Secretary of State to focus on South Sudan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e471	This is a fairly common political analysis, raising itself to the true representative of the people more than the other elected peoples in this Chamber. It basically characterizes both right-wing populistic and left-wing populistic forces on our continent. Here we are all elected peoples, and that the representative of the Progress Party is against what is our line in foreign policy, I take note. However, there is a broad consensus that Norway should play a role and pursue peace diplomacy. It is true that most people who are fleeing the world, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, are in areas where there is war and where there is conflict. And if you really want to do something about the refugee flows in the world: it's just a peace diplomacy, an active UN and getting multilateral organisations to work that helps to solve some of these refugee flows.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e476	The Minister of Foreign Affairs outlined how Norway has been a driving force in the Security Council for a unanimous resolution condemning attacks on schools in conflict areas — the first resolution of its kind in the history of the Security Council, an important resolution. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think this rhymes with the government's dramatic cut in Norwegian education aid in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e482	Getting something done about schools as legitimate goals in a conflict is a very important step forward for Norway. But we have had some other priorities in the aid budget than what the Right has had. We have been busy, among others. in the question of equality, the right of women to determine their own bodies. In many international organisations, priorities have been lowered in recent years, and many countries have cut. That's why it's quite natural that the priorities we've been making in the development budget in recent years, or in the current year's budget, have been on global health, because we're in the middle of a pandemic. It has been to ensure women the right to decide over their own bodies and to increase support for abortion and contraception, and it has been to ensure food safety. So we've had other development budget priorities than what the Right has had, and I'm satisfied with the development that this government has underpinned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e487	I want to return to Afghanistan, both because the situation there is as acute as he is, and because Norway has a special responsibility after being deeply involved in the warfare there for many years. I'm glad the Foreign Minister says that one will work for one to help those who need it. But I don't understand that the question of the sanctions regime has been commented on in particular, so I ask: What will and can the government do to make the necessary changes and adjustments in the sanctions regime so that just help can come up, and how does the Foreign Minister assess the possibilities for doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e492	In order to gain access to humanitarian aid, we need to talk to the Taliban, but it is clear that we have to hold the Taliban responsible for what is political development in the country. There is now an inconspicuous situation. Sometimes we see that girls are allowed to go to school, and elsewhere this is not the situation. In some places we see that human rights activists are being persecuted, in other parts of the country we see that this is not the case. This is why it is not applicable now, for example. opening up the same assistance as we had in the past. What we are increasing is humanitarian aid to the population. I believe that the main focus now is to ensure that they receive increased support through UN organisations building bridges through the emergency humanitarian aid and long-term assistance, and therefore this initiative in the United Nations has just been one of the most important things that we have supported in recent times. But starting to ease sanctions from the Norwegian side, I think I'm wrong to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e497	Recently, The New York Times exposed massive killings on civilians, committed by the coalition in which Norway participated, in Syria. We asked the Secretary of Defense what Norway has known, what role Norway as the US coalition partner may have played, directly or indirectly, in enabling the United States to kill civilians, and what the government is now doing to clarify the matter. But we got answers. In the worst case, the decision of the Solberg government to withdraw Norway into the Syrian War and not demand the United States to inform about the killing of civilians has made Norway accomplices in war crimes. Therefore, will the government explain to the Storting what it knows, how to deal with the United States, and also how Norway will proceed internationally to ensure justice for both victims and relatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e504	Now, this issue has little to do with the UN Security Council, but is about Norway's relationship with other countries. To the representative of Moxnes about participating in the military in the fight against ISIL, our parties have disagreed, and that may also be the basis for the discussion we now have here. So when the Kurds asked for military support to fight ISIL, they did not ask for bread. They didn't ask for schools. They asked for military assistance to fight ISIL, which was standing right outside their living room door. I have been concerned by the Workers' Party during the period that has passed, that we will receive regular evaluations of the efforts we are making in different areas. We got a very good discussion about Afghanistan, and we also got a very good discussion about the efforts in Libya. I believe it is important that we do so also in the discussion of our military efforts in Iraq, but I think it was absolutely necessary that we engage in the military fight against ISIL.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e513	I noticed in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' mention of the dialogue with research and academy yesterday, especially in relation to the situation in East Africa. It is incredibly important and a strength in collaboration with the competent team in the U.D., how you can work together. In extending it, this is a continuation of the way in which a job is done in the previous government, too, the question of whether the same close dialogue and contact with civil society organisations at this stage has been seized, which is of particular importance during the presidency. It gives a voice to those who have knowledge and trust. It gives room for the young voices that are often in the midst of conflict situations, and it also gives a long-term policy dimension in development. So the question is, is there any action taken to secure that contact even now in a very crucial phase of the presidency?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e520	The answer to that question is yes. In recent years, there have been fewer representatives of civil society who have addressed the Security Council directly, and that is what we want to change. It's about those who have experience of different conflicts on the ground to come and tell the Security Council what's the situation. When we had an event related to education, where we got important insights, it was just children who were affected by their school being used in war and conflict, who spoke at an event that Norway arranged. It will also happen when we head the Security Council. It's just civil society actors we want to invite. What we see in many places is that civil society organisations that have been invited, and especially women who have been invited to the Security Council, have been threatened when they come home. Therefore, we should be careful how we follow up those who speak on behalf of civil society for the Security Council. That's absolutely something we want to contribute to under our presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e527	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e532	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for coming to the Stortinget and providing us with a thorough briefing on Norway and the government's priorities in the UN Security Council. I wish her every success in important work during the period of the Presidency of the Council. I would also like to thank the committee leader for the job she did to get Norway into the Security Council. The issues that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions in his statement are serious. In particular, there are specific country situations that call for vigilance from the world community and where Norway can play a role. I'll mention two of them here. The first one is Afghanistan. For 20 years the United States, Norway and other NATO countries were present in Afghanistan militarily. When the presence of the forces was to be phased out during 2021, the Taliban took over power completely. As we know, the takeover of power occurred quickly and surprisingly, leading to chaos and rapid evacuation of international personnel. Desperate Afghans tried to flee in fear of their lives. There were horrible images we saw from the airport in Kabul. The Taliban, who led the country ironically from 1996 to 2001, is back in power. It's shocking. Many fear that especially girls and women would not retain the rights they have had in the last 20 years, such as freedom of movement and the right to education. The Taliban must have moderated, but promising to stop stoning women I won't exactly call progress. In parallel, Afghans are now hit by a hunger crisis. According to the World Food Programme, it is now only 2 pst. of the population with enough food available. At the same time, it is estimated that 3.2 million children face acute malnutrition. Soon five months after the completion of the country’s re-establishment by the Taliban, the regime is still under sanctions to prevent vital emergency aid and the operation of the economy. The currency has lost more than 25 pst. of its value. All in all, this relationship that survives the Afghans is little hope of development and peace in the time to come. The other situation I want to highlight is Ethiopia. In the second year, there is a bloody conflict between the Ethiopian central authorities and the local authorities in the region of Tigray. As is often the case, the conflict has a long history, and so often the conflict is about power-rivalling, country and identity. Thousands have been killed so far since war broke out between the parties in 2020, and also in Ethiopia there is an alarm that a severe famine is on the stairs. The Ethiopian civilian population remains trapped in the locked conflict, with a great need for emergency aid. Emergency aid has been difficult to obtain because it is used in the political game between the warring parties. The civilian population has begun to starve. Many suggest that this is due to a deliberate use of hunger as a tactic in warfare. I would like to join the Foreign Minister in saying that for Ethiopia, the Security Council has failed so far. A functioning Security Council is very important to put an end to the human suffering we see in the world today. It is in this context that it is a positive news that the Security Council unanimously decided on 22 December to grant exemptions from the Taliban sanctions regime for humanitarian aid and for other basic support to Afghanistan as the Foreign Minister also mentioned in his statement. It's been a long time since we talked about soldiers on the battlefield as the most vulnerable in war. The situation in both Afghanistan and Ethiopia illustrates that civilians are the hardest hit in modern conflicts, and especially women. In Ethiopia, systematic rape of women is now reported. In Afghanistan, women are at risk of losing about all the rights acquired in the last 20 years. This recognition is a logical bridge to the meetings that Norway itself chooses to initiate as the head of the Security Council — the first on women, peace and security, led by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the second on urban warfare and the need for the protection of the civilian population, led by the Prime Minister. The fact that these issues will shape the work of the Security Council under the leadership of Norway offers that, as representatives of the world, we stand up for what we think is right and important in order to create development and peace. It is a long-term work that did not start with either this government or the previous government, but continues with full force.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e561	It has been a long time since there was a greater need for international cooperation than today. We see unrest, upgrading and devoured conflicts in several places in the world, including our own neighbourhoods. At a moment of talk, the Russian strength building is on the Ukraine border. President Lukashenko clings to the power of Belarus and presses our European allies through the cynical use of refugees and migrants. The trust in the international community is under pressure. When a rule-driven world order does not seem credible, we end up in rivalry and the most powerful right. We can't do yours. The answer can't be to give up, but to do what we can to contribute to enhanced cohesion. Therefore, it was important that Norway should have a place in the UN Security Council during this critical period. It was important to give Norway the opportunity to contribute where we can make a difference. Furthermore, it was important to give us the opportunity to deepen our relationship with important countries of cooperation and to promote Norwegian views and values in the world. Most parties were behind Norway's candidacy to the seat of the Security Council, and we in the Right are proud that we were the leaders of this work. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and informative review of the work of the year that went on, and the coming year. We share the foreign minister's ambition for Norway to continue to promote important issues in the Council, where Norway has credibility. It is reassuring to hear that our efforts for emergency aid and for conflict mitigation will continue. The same applies to the issue of equality and the participation of women. Norway shall continue to raise the climate issue as an independent safety challenge. I would particularly like to stress that it was positive to hear the Foreign Minister draw up Norway's driving role in ensuring education for children and young people, including in areas marked by war and conflict. Education is the key to lasting peace and growth, and if a generation is deprived of this opportunity, the prospects for the future and the belief that the future is something for the individual disappear. Contradictors may use this cynically, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs also explained. Children and young people are vulnerable groups. Schools are being attacked in conflict zones in several places, and children are being harmed and deprived of their future. The unanimous resolution of Norway was an inciter to the Security Council is a positive step in the right direction. I support the Foreign Minister in highlighting this work in the Security Council. I would just as fully allow myself to stress that the government is not as resolutely following up this work in the other development policy. I am thinking then of how the government has implemented significant cuts in support of education and thus damaged Norway's reputation as a credible development partner by blowing off large parts of Norway's multi-annual commitment to the joint effort to strengthen education through the Global Partnership for Education, the GPE. The same can be said about the government's dramatic cut to the World Food Programme, WFP. The Foreign Minister drew up Norway's efforts in the Security Council to provide emergency assistance to conflict areas. The government's depriority to the fight against hunger is poor in its efforts by the Norwegian delegation to the Council. When Norway comes to grips with the important last year of this period, the Minister for Foreign Affairs shall know that the Norwegian delegation has full support from the Right in this important work. We are aware that it will be a demanding year, but the more important it will be. Peace is never too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e581	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e598	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e605	The government’s communication sets out the scope of exports of weapons, ammunition and other military material, related technology and services for military purposes in 2020. Information is also provided on exports of multifunctional military goods abroad. Such notifications have been submitted annually since 1996. They have helped to strengthen the transparency of export control in Norway by explaining government policy in the field of export control, the practice of export control legislation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs guidelines on processing applications for export of defence material, as well as knowledge of exports themselves. The defence industry and export control are an integral part of Norwegian defence and security policy. It increases our fighting power and our defense. It is an objective to continue to ensure a viable Norwegian defence industry that can contribute to security of supply for both the defence of Norway and allied countries. The defence industry depends on being able to export and participate in international development and production cooperation. So to the comments of the Progress Party on the message: The defence industry is important not only for defence; the preparedness and local community, the defence industry is an engine for the development of civil technology as well. This is a development that will be reinforced in the coming years. Norwegian technology-intensive and knowledge-intensive jobs are important for society. For example, the defence industry contributes to space technology and drone technology and a number of other high-tech industries that are crucial if we are to create a competent and high-tech society. So those who are opponents of the defence industry are at the same time opponents of this form of multi-use goods. Development and production of defence-related products contributes to the creation of more high-tech jobs. Norwegian engineers and other specialists are at the top of the world in several areas of defence. In order for Norway to continue to develop breakthrough products, the industry needs to sell the products and components it develops. They need long-termity. Triangle cooperation between industry, the Defence and the FFI is unique. It brings together industry, users and the research community and helps Norway develop world-class products. The Norwegian defence equipment market is very limited. Therefore, industry is dependent on exports. Exports account for most of the income and also contribute to the income of the country through taxes and taxes. Of course, restrictions relating to the export of defence equipment must be in place. However, the paradox is that if we want the Norwegian defence industry to survive, we will have to harmonise our legislation with the legislation of our leading allies. Norwegian defence companies do not produce platforms such as fighters, helicopters, tanks or submarines. They produce subsystems and components which are part of major foreign systems. If you deliver a component to a German submarine – which then Germany chooses to export to a country to which we would not have exported – we actually need to find out if we are to have a defence industry. It is a bit of a tighter debate we have in Norway – whether we are going to sell to UAE, or whether we are going to sell to Yemen, etc. As long as this is part of a larger system, we can just not have that discussion. If this is ammunition that's directly produced in Nammo, or elsewhere, then of course we can have that kind of constraints, but we have to bear in mind when we're doing politics in this hall, that we're a tiny little country. It relates a little bit to the matter we had before, we're actually a tiny country that means very little in the big context. It means in practice that the export legislation of the system vendor will apply. For example, Kongsberg is a subcontractor to fighter aircraft F-35, but in Norway they have to deal with US export legislation at the same time, and we all know that it is more liberal, because they have other interests globally. Then we either have to be on it or we don't have to be on it. If we say that we do not want to participate in the type of export, we do not get to deliver the same components to countries we want, because then we do not have delivery stability. The U.S. won't accept it, and at the same time, the unit price is going to be higher, so we can't be in it at all. I also hope that socialists will be involved in understanding that logic, because if you can't discuss the export code in this room. All main system suppliers are dependent on predictability and Norway cannot impose national restrictions. Then we accept sales to France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States, which are platform producers, at the same time we have to deal with their export legislation. That discussion is not in this Chamber, nor is it in the comments of the other parties. It's like we're in control of our own exports, but we don't have that, and we can't deal with it? On the one hand, one cannot defend the defence industry and boast it and multi-use technologies and the dissemination of technology and other jobs – if we are not willing to export the same components to central systems that other countries produce, and then I am talking about allied countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e633	The notification of the transparency of exports of defence equipment ensures public and parliamentary transparency in the practice of export control legislation. The level of transparency has increased significantly since the first communication in 1996 and includes both information on actual exports, the practice of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs guidelines, policy and regulatory developments, and extensive international cooperation on export control of strategic goods, technology and services. Norway has one of the world's most stringent legislations for the export of defence equipment. We should continue to have that, while also continuing to work for a better common international legislation. The Labour Party believes it is important for Norway to have its own defence industry. The defence industry represents increased defence and fighting power through deliveries both to our own defenses and to our allies. Exports of defence equipment provide jobs around the country, and in several municipalities and regions, this industry is corner stone enterprises. The Norwegian defence industry is world leader and contributes to the development of advanced technologies that are also used in civil society. The fact that the defence industry has been a provider of solutions for civil purposes throughout history can be exemplified by mentioning products such as the cable, hermetics, GPS and microwaves. Here it may also be worth mentioning that the solution to the remote control tower at Norwegian airports is a result of the Norwegian defence industry. Industry generates large export revenues that are important for Norway, and in 2020 it was exported for nearly 6.7 billion. kr. Norway’s participation in the EU Defence Fund will allow the Norwegian defence industry to be further strengthened and will increase access to the European defence market. Norway has invested in new defence equipment in recent years and will invest significantly in the coming years. Here it is important to impose requirements on industrial cooperation agreements and repurchases in the Norwegian industry, because already today Norwegian industry provides solutions and parts to the foreign defence industry as a result of investments in the Norwegian defence industry. Exports of defence equipment involve a great deal of responsibility. Norway has and shall have strict legislation on exports of defence equipment. The decision on the principle of the Great Britain in 1959 and the clarification in 1997 must be based on the fact that weapons and ammunition should not be sold to countries where war and conflict threaten, or to countries where serious violations of human rights have been detected. In 2020, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs decided to reject 27 applications for export licences. We are all aware of the precarious situation in Yemen. In recent years the situation in Yemen has been the world's most serious humanitarian crisis. There is a continuing deterioration in the security situation in the country, and the number of internal displacements is increasing. I would like to say that the decision of 2018 not to grant new licences for the export of B-materials or multi-use goods for military use in Saudi Arabia was important and correct. The same applies to the suspension of A material for the United Arab Emirates in 2017. The working party assumes that thorough assessments are always carried out before the export of defence equipment from Norway is permitted. It is not least important for the legitimacy of a very important industry for Norway. Technological developments are facing new and complex threats. Increasingly extensive digitisation, autonomous weapons, drones, artificial intelligence, positioning technologies, new materials, biological and medical breakthroughs will greatly change wars and conflicts. We need international cooperation and legislation to strengthen this development. The National Audit Office’s report, ‘The National Audit Office’s examination of the work of the authorities on export control of strategic products’, published in February 2020, identified several critical issues. I see it as reassuring that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has addressed the criticism by improving procedures, and that they will continue to do so in 2022. The government maintains Norway's restrictive line of export controls. The Hurdal platform has expressed an ambition to further international arms control and disarmament efforts, to ensure compliance with the prohibition of class weapons and landmines, and to take the necessary initiatives to regulate the development of autonomous weapon systems. Finally, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the export control system, the decisions on the issue of export licences and the control of the Storting through the annual wholesale notifications may not be too long in time. The working party would clearly expect the export notification for 2021 to be submitted by the end of the second quarter of 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e656	Our defence industry is an important part of Norwegian defence and security policy. The Norwegian defence industry is innovative. Technology primarily developed for military purposes has also found its way to civil use and utility. But the domestic market for the Norwegian defence industry is limited. There is too much time between the acquisition by the Defence Agency of new, larger structural elements so that national needs alone can maintain a viable national defence industry. Our defence industry is highly technologically and internationally competitive. Through systematic cooperation and strategic alliances with foreign companies, the Norwegian defence industry has strengthened its international market access. Of an annual turnover of approximately 20 billion kr represents the export approx. 30 pst. of the revenue. About 7 000 workers are employed in the defence industry throughout the country, many in small and medium-sized enterprises. Exports of Norwegian defence equipment are subject to strict legislation and parliamentary transparency. Export controls shall ensure that the decision of the Storting is followed up, as well as the guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The export control message for 2020 is 26th in a row. The one we are dealing with today is far more extensive, open and thorough than the first message was. There is an ongoing improvement in this area, which guarantees the very control regime of Norwegian exports of defence equipment. In parallel, Norway has also strengthened international cooperation through the multilateral export control regime. Important information on, for example, spreading trends and acquisition attempts. Compared to 2019, the export value of defence equipment increased by 35 pst. The increase is largely due to increased exports of air protection systems, where Norway delivers world-class systems. This is a spring in the hat of the Norwegian defence industry and should be suitable for creating joy, enthusiasm and pride across party boundaries. I have noticed that SV and Red in the comments are in line with the objective of a viable Norwegian defence industry. It's positive. Internationally, we face very complex safety challenges and profound technological advances. This presents challenges for control work. New technologies are being developed at a rapid pace, in some cases faster than the checklists are being updated. It is increasingly recognised that Norwegian knowledge and technology environments are being subjected to attempts to circumvent the export control legislation. Both the PST and the Intelligence Service have warned in their annual threat assessments against foreign actors who aim to gain sensitive knowledge from Norway for military use, contrary to our security and defence policy interests. In particular, Norwegian education and research institutions, including: because Norwegian higher education is free of charge and those institutions maintain a high international level in areas covered by export controls. The Government of Solberg announced in its last year’s export control report the strengthening of the knowledge control in the Export Control Regulation. It is very important that this work continues with unreduced strength, usually with increased strength, and that the information work started with or against the academy, whichever is the preferred, is continued and done in a systematic way. Finally, the same applies to the Police Security Service — regular preventive meetings with Norwegian technology communities. This work is essential to increase the vigilance associated with covert acquisitions and technology espionage.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e675	I only have a few short comments on the setting. Since 1996, the paper on exports of defence equipment has been a very good source of knowledge about what happened in previous years in relation to the export of defence equipment. In particular, the message is retrospective, it shows us what has happened, but the setting will usually also provide a good basis for the individual batches to come up with fundamental considerations relating to the export of defence equipment. I think there is reason to point out this year that the entire committee is in line with the important objective of ensuring a continued viable Norwegian defence industry that can contribute to security of supply for Norwegian defence, but also for the defence of allied countries. That, I think, is a good bottom plan for the whole political environment in this area. Then there is a broad majority who point to the important role played by the defence industry in Norway in terms of jobs, but also in the sense that they are a high-tech industry, of which we have all the benefit. It is also very important to maintain state ownership of the large defence companies in Norway. I would like to stress that, because I think it really was encouraging with the message itself and the setting. So I want to point out a couple of points that I think there's a basis for stressing. One is that a Joint Committee also states that today there is no provision that can directly prevent the transfer of ownership to companies, and that one can thus come into a situation where an enterprise is bought up in order to circumvent the export control legislation. An overall committee is in favour of the government now assessing whether to clarify the safety law in this area and that this could mean a tightening up. I would also like to say that, when the Riksaudition goes through the export control code, we shall listen carefully, because if there is a broad majority in this Chamber, there are different interests from the different parties. Some people want a much stronger role for Stortinget in some of these matters, some have a different view of our ally's connection, and some also have a more critical view of the export of defence equipment. So it's up to the broad majority who are behind today's legislation to be very aware of the comments that come from the Riksrevision. In this respect, the setting points in particular to three things. It points, in particular, to the statutory tasks of the PST and customs office here, whether those tasks are properly and thoroughly carried out, and also whether the decision relating to the acceptance of exports to the United Arab Emirates was well thought about before it was implemented. I think it is important that we are concerned with the findings of the National Audit Office, and that we also look at their findings as an opportunity to actually strengthen and maintain the broad conclusion of the Norwegian Export Control Code, and that one therefore has a particular vigilance in the follow-up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e690	When dealing with this message, we should at least take care of two things. One is to have a viable defence industry in Norway, which is important both for the defence of the country and for technological development, and it is about important jobs and export income. The second point is that the Norwegian defence industry and the export of Norwegian defence technology and weapons should not help to give regimes and warring parties that we cannot afford, an opportunity to use precisely Norwegian-developed weapons and equipment in repression and warfare. We like to talk about Norway as a nation of peace, but we have to realize that there is a great risk of saying one thing, but that we're doing something completely different. SV therefore makes a number of suggestions to strengthen the control of the Norwegian arms export, and I find it disappointing that there is no greater excitement about this. Despite the fact that the government and the majority boast of the legislation governing Norwegian exports of defence equipment, saying that it is very strict and based on a so-called precautionary principle, the experience of the last decade has shown that this is a truth with important modifications. The best example is the Norwegian export to authoritarian regimes, dictatorships, etc. who have been involved in the disastrous war in Yemen, such as. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. In order to have an honest debate on these issues, on Norwegian arms exports and where Norwegian developed weapons actually end, we need to have access to information, and that must be openness. Both the Storting, the media and civil society shall be able to contribute to and participate in an informed debate. SV therefore proposes to increase parliamentary control of arms exports, according to model from the Netherlands. At the same time, we are deeply concerned about the lack of openness and transparency. It's been a year with many revelations of just this. We have the Riksaudien's strong criticism of both the export control itself and the procedures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was recently revealed in the media that thousands of documents in the U.D. are kept open from public access, and at the top of the whole – perhaps one might say – the oral hearing of just this message was cancelled this time. I'm surprised that the majority don't want any more open debate on these important questions. Finally, I want to list the suggestions SV is part of the setting. At the same time, I announce that the SV will vote in favour of proposal No. 15 and 16, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, and substitutively for proposal No. 14 and 17 from the same parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e703	The representative of Ingrid Fiskaa has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e708	Norwegian politicians talk a lot about human rights in other countries, but when a coalition of the world's worst Islamist regimes went to war with Yemen's civilians, the Solberg government did not react. That is, they reacted, but by multiplying the export of Norwegian war material to these countries after they started the ruthless warfare. Without the violent supply of war equipment, these countries would never have had the military superiority they needed to start and continue the war. They have contributions from, among others: The United States active, daily, infected and killed civilians, children, women and men, in large numbers, both by direct bombing and by an inhuman military bloc that prevents the introduction of food and medicine into a badly starving and vulnerable population. In 2020, the Riksrevision revealed that the government has no choice but to ensure adequate control of arms exports. The so-called 1959 decision, that we should not export military material to countries where there is war, civil war, or where war threatens, has been set aside, and the Solberg government seems to have far more on the cruel consequences than it has told the population and the population. Again, the authorities reacted, but not by tightening arms exports to warring countries and ensuring compliance with export rules, but by trying to crush the control body of Storting and keep secret the National Audit Office’s disclosure. The pretext of secrecy was the security of the state, but the security of the state has not been served by Norway exporting war material to Islamist regimes that have passed Western weapons on to terrorist groups, such as the United States. Al Qaida. Of course, it was the war profitors, not Norway's security, who were protected by this secret team, who were yet another example of one of the Solberg government's trademarks, namely to abuse access to secrecy to cover their own scandals. In that case, the authorities were not content with an illegitimate secrecy. When the Riksrevision's criticism appeared in the Evening Post, they launched a raid on the source of this leak. It doesn't make the matter much better. This has to be cleaned up. No decision can bring back the victims of the Islamic regimes' warfare in Yemen, for which Norway and NATO allies, with the United States at the head, of course have a joint responsibility. What we get from a simple decision today will not get Norway out of the shame hook that the previous government has put us in. But fortunately, the majority of the world's states do not reward warring regimes with war equipment, as the previous government did, nor does Norway have to do. Red promotes a series of proposals, along with the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which will not least seal the dirtholes used by the previous government to justify exports to warring countries. I want to praise the SV, and those who have made contributions from civil society, for the thorough work on the proposals. I also see it as positive and good that both the Christian People's Party and the Left are involved in taking important steps in the right direction. A lot is now on the Workers' Party, which when they were in opposition gave signals suggesting that they would have a slightly more decent weapon export policy. Now the Workers' Party sits with government power. Now is the time to demonstrate this propensity in practice by voting for the proposals that ensure Norway stops exporting war equipment to warring regimes and also stops breaking the UN arms trade agreement. The alternative to clean-up now is to continue making money to contribute to what, unfortunately, is indisputably killed by innocent and also humanitarian disasters. With that, I take up the suggestions that Red is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e727	The processing of the export control message is an important part of the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, and this autumn we have addressed the Communication for 2020. Unfortunately, in a busy budget harvest, we did not have time for a formal consultation, as other representatives have also pointed out. We want us to add to a full committee hearing when the next message is submitted to the Stortinget. This is Storting's annual opportunity to provide leadership for export control of Norwegian defence equipment, and then it is important that we give the matter sufficient attention. However, regardless of this, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to making representations in committee proceedings this time too, both in industry, in trade unions and in civil society. Export control is a policy area that does not follow the traditional lines of Norwegian policy, and it is important that actors on different sides of the debate can engage in a dialogue of respect and understanding of each other’s positions. The defence industry is an important premiscuous supplier of technology and innovation in this country. Not only the major players such as the Kongsberg Group and Nammo, but also a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises contribute to Norwegian defence capabilities while creating values that enable the green jobs of the future to be established here at home. We want a Norwegian defence industry that is competitive and that exports its high-tech solutions to our allies and to our friends. However, the same industry will only survive if the industry’s public reputation is good. Export controls are therefore also important for the industry itself. Today, we are voting in favour of a number of proposals that were put forward in committee. We are voting in favour of the proposals for an independent review to countries that have participated in the conflict in Yemen, not because we conclude that Norwegian weapons have been used in this conflict, but because this is an accusation that has been hanging in the air for several years and that should be properly investigated in order to calm the public debate. We are also promoting proposals to strengthen parliamentary control of today's export controls. We know that other countries have found ways to do this, and we want to see if there is anything we can do to make the Storting even closer to the export control policy of the government. In addition, we have made proposals to ensure that biometric monitoring technology is treated as multi-use products under Norwegian export control. I'll get closer to that later. However, we do not vote in favour of some of the proposals from SV and Red that give rise to export licences in specific cases. It is not the Storting, but the government that today's system issues or rejects export licences, and we will also not contribute to decisions that shift responsibility from government to collapse without implementing a system change first. REC uigur — this is the code used by the police in the Chinese Henan Province to get their surveillance cameras to identify members of the Uighur minority in the country. This is one of several examples of China leading the use of biometric monitoring technologies to suppress its own inhabitants. REC uigur is a simple code that has a huge impact on human rights for about 13 million people. A few years ago, this debate on biometric monitoring technology would not be relevant simply because the technology was too little advanced, the reliability was too low, and the cost was too high. But in recent years, a lot has happened. Europe is now the market leader in the development of biometric monitoring technologies. In Europe, it would be impossible to use this technology in the way they do in China, but in China, European technology is imported and adapted to the needs of a communist regime in war with a minority. One of the reasons why we run defence equipment export control is to prevent Norwegian defence equipment from being used in ways that are incompatible with Norwegian values and Norwegian security and defence policy. At the time of the design of the export control body, biometric monitoring technology was not a relevant issue. It is therefore important that we make sure that all biometric monitoring technologies are treated as multifunctional products with the control mechanisms it entails. In the EU, this issue has been high on the agenda for a long time, but unfortunately the Member States have not agreed on a solution whereby exports of this type of technology are covered by the European Multi-Use Control Code. This means that the EU still has few instruments to prevent the use that we use, among other things. sees China, and we believe that Norway can and should go ahead. I will address the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e755	The representative Guri Melby has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e761	The Christian People's Party has long worked for stricter guidelines on Norwegian arms exports and for increased transparency around them. Improvements have been made, as reflected in the annual monitoring reports on Norwegian exports of defence equipment, but the legislation needs to be constantly improved. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway should have its own defence industry. It is important for preparedness, export income and jobs. We know that technological leadership is becoming increasingly important in many areas. That's the same thing with defense. Should the defence industry succeed, require a high level of competence and commitment to leading technology. In addition, the technological competence created in the defence industry is incredibly important for other high-tech industries. But military technology is not any commodity. Therefore, Norway must have strict export control legislation and we must promote common international rules and high international control standards for exports of defence equipment. In the relevant international forums, Norway needs to work to achieve a common standard for end-user documentation. Norway’s cooperation with the EU on export controls and non-proliferation is important, and last year the EU revised its list of multi-use products. Among other things, the export requirements of monitoring technology were strengthened. That is good, but Norway should go further and ensure an export control regime that also includes so-called biometric monitoring technology, as we have just heard, as facial recognition technology. The Christian People's Party is also proposing it today, together with the Left. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that the defence industry has the most predictable and long-term framework for its activities. At the same time, we believe that those frameworks should be more restrictive and applied more stringently than they are at present. Norwegian defence equipment shall not be used in violation of the rules of the war. Norwegian exports shall not strengthen the military capacity and ability of authoritarian regimes to suppress their own population. It's also about which country Norway is going to be, what we can be familiar with, and what values we want to promote. There has been recent criticism of the lack of transparency in the handling of export control cases, from the media, from organisations and from legal teams. It is a criticism aimed at both government and big business. Several organisations have responded to secrecy, and Redd Barna has stated that it has become more difficult to act as a watchbow in this area. It is a criticism that should be taken seriously. It is natural for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to review the practice of legislation on the secrecy of documents relating to export control. The next time this message is handled by the Stortinget, a public hearing should also be organised in advance. A public selection and a comprehensive review of the Norwegian export control regime, as proposed by the Christian People's Party and others today, can also contribute to increased transparency and debate about Norwegian arms exports, and to a long-term and stable framework for industry in the future. I present with it the proposals that the Christian People's Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e778	The representative Dag-Inge Ulstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e783	A robust Norwegian defence industry is very important for Norwegian defence capabilities and for our preparedness. The defence industry shall contribute to security of supply for both Norway and allies, and it constitutes very important value creation – export incomes and jobs – throughout the country. The defence industry is also of great importance in and transfer value to civil society. In order for this industry to be viable and keep pace with technological development, companies must have the opportunity to export and participate in international material development and production projects. It is also necessary to ensure predictability and long-term framework conditions for the defence industry. This is important for the reputation of Norwegian companies as a credible trading partner and for Norwegian industry and Norway. A restrictive export control is just as fully an indispensable prerequisite, and strict but stable legislation is also important to maintain the full legitimacy of this industry. Despite strict and comprehensive legislation and an international or protectionist market, we see Norwegian defence companies succeed in several areas in many markets. It is, in my view, joyous. The message we are debating today is 26th in a row. The value of defence equipment and its exports vary from year to year. This is because contracts often extend over several years and thus revenue is distributed differently throughout the contract period. NATO countries, Nordic countries and other European countries are the largest recipients of material from Norway. In 2020, a total of 87 pst went. of exports to these countries. The government will lead to a strict line of defence equipment exports. As a result of the Saudi-led coalition military operation in Yemen and the serious and very uncertain situation that developed, the export of A-materials, weapons and ammunition to the United Arab Emirates was suspended in 2017. The threshold for refusing to export B-material to countries participating in the Saudi coalition was further reduced. We're following this situation very closely. Today, new licences or contracts for the export of defence equipment to the Emirates cannot be expected to be fulfilled. Let me also stress that Norway has never opened up to export arms and ammunition to Saudi Arabia. It is important when discussing these roles, that we have facts with us, and that Norway is much more stringent than many other countries in these areas. Last year, the National Audit Office’s review of the authorities’ work on export controls was dealt with in Stortinget. The report pointed out several improvement points that we are following, including with other departments. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already taken action in respect of clear writtenness in the proceedings, which was part of the recordings that came. There's a lot of talk about openness in this discussion. I would like to say that the government's aim is to show as much transparency as possible about the export of defence equipment within the framework of the obligation of professional secrecy – that is to say, it is required by law. The processing of this big message is an important part of this transparency. I would like to stress that the duty of professional secrecy is there for a very good reason. Export licence applicants are required to provide very detailed and sensitive information on their applications. This could be done, for example, by: be distorting information, product and price sensitive information or information about customers and markets. There is information received by the Ministry in order to make its assessments. Industry shall have confidence that this information is properly maintained by the administration and that it does not flow to unauthorised persons or competitors. It is essential for the implementation of a responsible and very strict export control legislation that businesses have confidence in the Ministry to comply with this obligation of professional secrecy. So that's the basis for us having this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e802	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e807	Improving and clarifying the practice of the knowledge control in the export control legislation itself is an important work undertaken by the previous government. This is done to prevent sensitive knowledge and technology from getting into unwanted hands. This is a very comprehensive work involving different departments, private enterprises and not least educational and research institutions. Questions to the Minister will then naturally be: What role does the Minister and the Minister's Department play in this work? How are the other actors involved? And what's the status today? for the said work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e814	Trends in multilateral export control cooperation are centred around the representative’s point – knowledge transfer, emerging technologies and digital transmission technology. These are areas where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has worked very closely over time. In 2022 we sent out a consultation note that is a follow-up to how we can control the transfer of knowledge in the most effective way possible. The aim is to establish a clear rule on the control of knowledge transfer in regulations. We are also in the process of assessing how we can best control monitoring technologies, which were also in the discussion here, which can be used for the prosecution and serious violation of human rights. This is a very important work that requires international cooperation with both our allies and like-minded countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e819	A question in the close context of the previous question is the following: I am now aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not have the constitutional responsibility for the Security Act, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a self-interest in the work that is now under way under the Security Act, in which it is necessary to clarify this law with regard to establishments that are being purchased in order to circumvent the Export Control Code. We know a matter in advance of the work started here. What role does the Minister see that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister will take on this task in order to ensure that the final result is achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e824	We gain a lot of knowledge about how other countries organize this work. It is clear that, in the case of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is important that we are closely involved in the development of new legislation. Some of the important things are coordination between different departments, and I take that very seriously. Both the representative of Elvenes and I were present when the Stortinget discussed a matter in that connection last year, and it is clear that there will be a basis for many of the assessments that the government takes in the further follow-up of this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e829	The Norwegian defence industry delivers many critical components to the F-35. It's composite, ammunition, electronics, missiles, avionics and probably more other things. The United States has now decided to sell F-35 to Saudi Arabia. The Minister of Foreign Affairs clearly stated that Norway should not sell arms or other defence-related products to Saudi Arabia. As I said, the Norwegian defence industry produces components that are part of F-35, and then I think it's also part of the F-35 that's to be sold to Saudi Arabia. If that is true, will the Foreign Minister, as she herself said, stop these Norwegian deliveries to F-35, and has the Foreign Minister discussed this with his colleague in the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e836	This is a single matter that I of course cannot answer directly to a question in this context. This message is about what happened in the previous year. If that happens, the Storting will be consulted in dealing with specific individual matters, but I cannot deal with specific individual matters, and in particular not hypothetical individual matters, from the Spokesman of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e841	Apart from F-35, the principle I took up in my post is that Norway is a subcontractor to major platforms produced in our allied countries, which again sells to countries to which we would not sell. Does the Minister agree that we must accept it, in the light of the fact that we cannot go out of projects that cause us to lose contracts also to friendly countries? Or do you think you should be principled here and withdraw the Norwegian defence industry from these platforms to defend Norwegian export legislation? This is quite essential, because it will cause us to lose all contracts also to friendly countries, and this is a debate that we do not take, but which is a more important debate than whether we sell any ammunition to Yemen or the United Arab Emirates.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e847	To the extent that this is an important principleal debate, it is about end-user documentation. It is an important question for Norway. Evidence on end-user exports of defence equipment from Norway is always required. Exports of weapons to countries outside the Allied Circle also require re-export insurance, i.e. the product is not to be re-exported or lent to another country without the permission of the Norwegian authorities. For the export of weapons and ammunition to allied countries, documentation is required to provide evidence to the end-user. Our policy of not requiring the end-user declaration with a re-port clause from our allies is based on our long-term defence cooperation, and a unilateral Norwegian requirement for a re-port clause from all countries will affect Norwegian industry, especially in relation to cooperation with our allies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e854	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech that the government is busy with openness when it comes to Norwegian arms exports, and I am very pleased about that. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will then tell you what the framework of this openness must be, namely the statutory obligations. It's okay. Nevertheless, my question is: what will the Foreign Minister do to increase openness, which she says is that the government is busy - in the light of the revelations that have been made in the last year, and of the criticism from the Riksrevision?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e859	I did well in my speech on how to follow up the criticism of the National Audit Office, and it's very much about documentation, that you justify, and archive the arguments that have been made. I believe that the system we have in Norway provides good transparency on practice and policy without going at the expense of business-sensitive information and professional secrecy. What we want to do in the future is to consult the Storting in relevant cases where necessary. But I do not think that the Dutch system will contribute to more transparency, because Parliament has a different practice in these matters. I believe we are doing well through the system we have, and then we will consult the Storting in particularly sensitive matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e868	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e875	In the case of the representative of Moxnes, they are thoroughly blackmailed in the comments, so I'm not persecuting them any more. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, there are some facts related to these claims that deserve to be repeated. The Solberg Government stopped the export of A-material to the United Arab Emirates in 2017. The threshold for the export of B-material was lowered very low, as the minister had just arrived. Norway has never exported weapons and ammunition, i.e. A-material, to Saudi Arabia. The Solberg Government also suspended the granting of new licences for other defence equipment to Saudi Arabia in 2018. Thus, no information is available, either from the National Audit Office or from other reports, such as international reports, such as the United Kingdom. by the United Nations (UN) that Norwegian defence equipment has been used in Yemen. Finally, it was precisely the serious and unbridled situation in Yemen that caused the Solberg government to stop exports to those countries as a precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e888	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e905	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e922	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e929	In document 8, we are now discussing, the proposals from SV, Red and the Environment Party are making the Green proposals to stop all search for oil and gas. This proposal is only supported by the Left, and so there are not multiples for it. In the setting, there is also another proposal, from the Christian People's Party, which does not get any plurality either. I expect the various proposers to do their best. Right will develop the oil and gas industries, not decommissioned. The industry needs stable and robust framework conditions. Available search areas are an essential part of it. Stopping the search will lead to a significant previous production loss – in any case, it is expected to fall by 65 pst. towards 2050. The reduction in Norwegian production will be largely replaced by other producers with greater emissions from their petroleum product production. We already see this in today's practice. A few days ago, OPEC saw some increase in world oil production by 400,000 barrels. It doesn't help much what we had to mean all of us in this country. Nevertheless, Norwegian gas is an important climate action to reduce CO 2 emissions globally. Renewable power will not be able to solve the global climate challenges in the short term, it is simply not practicable. We've seen this in the last few months. The instability of Russian gas supplies has reduced the supply of gas in Europe. This has had considerable consequences in Europe, where several countries have been forced to start up coal-fired power plants that have previously been shut down due to climate change. In the green area for the EU, hydrogen has been raised as an important element in integrating different energy systems to contribute to CO 2 reductions, especially in the process industry and transport. The EU Commission has recently called for natural gas to be labelled as ‘green energy’ in the taxonomy of the EU. The EU Commission imposes strict emission requirements here, but this could give Norway a key role by, for example: to use natural gas from the base for the production of hydrogen, where CO 2 is subsequently stored on the base. This will in practice mean that Norwegian gas generates almost zero emission solutions. We live in a world where the temperature rises dangerously due to increased greenhouse gas emissions. In this case, we need to select the measures with the fastest possible effect to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Stopping the search activity on a Norwegian socket is not the right way to go. Let me put to the head of the IEA, Fatih Birol, who said on 30 November 2021: ‘The world will need Norwegian oil, Norwegian gas, even in a 1.5-degree scenario.’ And on the other hand, ‘But the amount of the world will need may be lower than what is needed today.’ Norway needs to search more, not stop searching, as the proposers want.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e963	The UN climate reports show with all clarity the climate crisis we are facing and that we need to take extensive action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, we know that the world will have a great need for oil and gas for a long time to come. There is no contrast between the conduct of profitable petroleum activities and the pursuit of an ambitious climate policy. In fact, it is fully possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, and Norway has all the prerequisites to provide energy security to an ever-increasing population, while balancing climate considerations. Natural gas has now been proposed by the European Commission to form part of the taxonomy of sustainable solutions. Replacing coal with gas is a rapid emission reduction measure in coal-using countries. The ongoing energy crisis in Europe clearly shows the need for natural gas. In a transitional phase towards zero emissions by 2050, I believe that it is not only wise, but it is also a responsibility we have to take, namely to ensure that Norwegian natural gas contributes to cutting emissions while ensuring security of supply in Europe. A stop in the search and development of new fields will not only strangle incomes and jobs in Norway. It will also significantly weaken Norway’s ability to develop and develop new green environments and technologies, which are crucial for achieving our climate goals, such as: carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, sea wind and minerals. A gradual transition to the renewable society requires the exploration and development of oil and gas. If we don't, it could lead to a global energy crisis that will put the transformation back a long way. And I just have to say, it feels safe to have a government that has clear ambitions to develop – and not liquidate – the oil and gas industries. Norway is one of the few democratic and reliable oil and gas producers, with low emissions, good employee rights, safe operation, high government revenues that provide well-being to all, and 200 000 jobs across the country. It would be directly irresponsible if Norway did not maintain its long-term and well-established petroleum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e974	The proposal to stop the granting of Norwegian allowables is, in effect, a proposal to stop the Norwegian petroleum industry. The Workers' Party-Centre-Registration is committed to the success of Norway's climate change transition. We're going to build an economy where we're going from being oil and gas driven to becoming an economy based on the green, renewable. But with respect to reporting: this proposal does not take us in that direction. I believe everyone in this room, and also people working in the petroleum sector, understands that the golden years for the oil and gas industries are behind us. But I also believe that the vast majority, including in this room, realize that we are going to need the oil and gas industry in our time as well. Then it would be unwise to start the liquidation and weakening of an industry that contributes precisely to it: positive value creation, well-being, competence, technology and jobs in Norwegian society. And the industry itself already has ambitious climate targets. We are concerned about the green shift in Norway and that it is going to happen on the shoulders of the petroleum industry. There will be no industrial capture and storage of CO 2 without the oil and gas industry. It is the oil and gas industry that represents the reservoirs, technology, competence and risk capital. There will be no Norwegian sea wind adventure with floating windmills at sea without the oil and gas industry. There are companies like Aker and Equinor or subcontractors like FMC on Kongsberg and Slatterland in Rakkestad that have the expertise and technology that is our competitive advantage. There will be no Norwegian investment in sea farms without the oil and gas industry. It is the oil and gas industry that has experience in operating large offshore installations under severe weather conditions and at high depths. Finally, it is difficult to imagine a Norwegian industrial trip on land without the oil and gas industry because the state of Norway is still deeply dependent on its revenue to build a bridge into a renewable age. It is tempting to say that, as a society, we are to build a bridge from the oil country, or the happy country, which the NRK has chosen to call it, into the renewable country – which will be the green happy country. The problem is that we can't build the bridge if at the same time we tear down the fixed wedding we're standing on, and that's exactly what this proposal means: to tear the wedding before we start building the bridge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e990	The oil and gas industry is not something we are going to liquidate. Oil and gas industries are something we are going to develop. What should oil and gas revenues be replaced in the future if one is to stop looking and stop developing that industry? It is a question that no one has been able to answer, and it presented as we are debating here today, is the same as a controlled closure of the oil and gas industries. It's the oil and gas industries that have created the well-being we have in Norway. We are unlikely to benefit from the large revenues we receive every year from the oil and gas industries. It's going to all the purposes for which society is totally dependent, and no one can at present show how they're going to replace it. Then you can look at what it's going to cost, this green shift and this climate and environmental hysteria, where one in Norway is about to become a world champion in meeting environmental things. What will it cost the Norwegian people in the future if one is to get an impact on it? There are so great challenges now. We look at the current prices going straight up – people are unable to pay the electricity bills – and not least we see it in Europe, where they have become totally dependent on Norwegian gas. They're taking down their power generation, both coal and not least nuclear power. Then they stand there with wind, and then they blow not, and then they stand there without strength. Then Norway gas is very important. So it's not just important for Norway, it's important for Europe as a whole that Norway becomes a gas and oil nation in the future. What happens if Norway stops extracting oil and gas? Norway stands for 2 pst. of world oil production. Then there are other countries that produce oil and gas in a far more dirty way than is the case in Norway, which may have one of the purest oil and gas productions in the world. We don't want to improve either the climate or the environment by stopping producing and developing oil and gas in Norway. Rather, on the contrary: the world actually gets dirtier if Norway were to bring down its oil and gas production. What, then, are the intentions of the proposal to stop the search for oil and gas and the development of the sector in Norway? Does this proposal want to develop environmental and climate action, or does it actually want to make the world more dirty by cutting its production, which is by the purest, and replacing it with production in Russia, Saudi Arabia, or whatever it might be? It's a opposite effect of such a policy and such a proposal. At least we're very clear on the progress side: we don't want to wind up the oil and gas sector. We want to develop it, and we're going to do it for a long, long time. As long as oil and gas are in demand in the world, Norway is going to help develop that industry, and we are going to keep on extracting oil and gas, for the benefit of the Norwegian people and for the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1005	The climate scientists say that, the UN Secretary-General says it, and even the International Energy Agency says it. And what are they saying? Well, they're saying exactly the same thing as the proposers behind this proposal. They say we can't start any new search for even more fossil energy. SV and the other proposers choose to listen to these professionally important advices instead of stabbing their heads in the sand like another ostrich and believe that we can continue as before. Our challenge now is to make a transition from Norway, a shift from the world and from Norwegian business to meet the major challenges we face in terms of cutting greenhouse gas emissions. The problem is that if we listen to the Progress Party, the Right Party or the Labour Party in this case, Norway will lose in the future. We're going to lose jobs. We're going to miss value creation and income because other countries are going to bet on what the future depends on in the face of the climate crisis. Other countries will then develop sea breezes, zero-emission solutions and get the income from this, while we will empty the Norwegian cap for the last drop of oil until there are no more people who want to buy this from us. Here we are facing another big challenge. For one thing, the climate challenge is related to the large-scale oil and gas activities of the Right, Labour and the Advance Party, but another is the economic challenge, the economic risk we take. We know that when the world is going to comply with the Paris agreement, when the world is going to cut greenhouse gas emissions, they have to free themselves from fossil energy. That means that the value of fossil energy is going to be less and less in the years to come. We are at risk of launching a number of oil and gas projects which in the years to come may prove unprofitable for the Norwegian community. Unfortunately, the majority of the population decided on the summer of 2020 to give a madly shy corona crisis package to the oil companies. No one else received such a generous support package as they received. The result of this crisis package is that we are now facing the launch of perhaps a 50's new oil and gas projects, and it is far from certain that all of those projects will be profitable for the Norwegian community. Some may turn out to be unprofitable. These projects also capture important labour, key competences that we have acquired through the oil industry, competences that we can use to develop zero-emission solutions, future solutions and future jobs, which will provide us with income in the years to come. It's not just climate this is about. This is also about vulnerable natural values. Several of the areas in which oil activities are currently planned are highly vulnerable. Take the Moravian banks, the main area for Norwegian springing herring. An oil spill here could have disastrous consequences for fish, for natural values and for Norway’s reputation as a fishing nation. I'm addressing that proposal SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1022	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1027	It is a mistake as it has been made from this chair, to understand this proposal as if you are going to turn the cranes back overnight or wind up all the oil and gas industries. It is not a proper presentation of this proposal. This proposal is about stopping the search for new oil and gas because we know it's not oil and gas we can live on in the future. Then you can make a caricature of the proposers as people who are opposed to industry, but that's not right. We're for industry. We are to prioritise the industry that is actually possible to live off in the future, in a community with other people on earth and with nature, which we have to keep intact. We also need to slow down greenhouse gas emissions. It has previously been suggested that there is a love relationship between the Red Party and the Advance Party in this Chamber. With this proposal and this debate, I can almost – I am not going to be as ready – claim that there is a love relationship or that someone is unfaithful, and that the love relationship is then between the Progress Party and the Labour Party and the Right. The U.N. has alerted. It's code red for humanity, and we have to take drastic action if we're to avoid catastrophic climate change. At the same time, we know that if we do something, we can avoid the most catastrophic changes. One of the most obvious messages from the UN Secretary-General is that we have to stop looking for coal, oil and gas. We don't have to look forward to figure out what we're waiting for. 2021 was a year of extreme weather all over the world, and we have also experienced more extreme weather here in Norway. There are events, especially in the world, that are cruel individually, and that together paint a picture of what the future can be like. After several decades of environmental and industrial paralysis, it is more urgent than ever to cut emissions, preserve the natural diversity and expand the Norwegian industry. We have to see these things in context. We can't just keep setting dates far ahead of time as the goal. We need to take concrete political decisions to achieve these objectives. As a petroleum producer, Norway has a special responsibility to respond to the request made by the United Nations and to stop looking for more oil and gas on its Norwegian base. Therefore, Red believes that we cannot give new readmissions on the base, even through the so-called TFO system, which gives permission in defined areas. We also want to withdraw the last concession rounds and actually stop looking for more oil. Opening up new fields, while saying that climate change is being slowed down, is incompatible. In order to prevent the exit from the oil age from becoming a transition to mass unemployment, we need to take responsibility by making Equinor a tool for the new and climate-friendly industry. Instead of spending money on companies looking for oil, Equinor of the stock exchange must complete the foreign strategy in oil and gas projects and make it the industrial locomotive that it once was, and should remain, for community construction in Norway. The difference between now and the happy country at the end of the 1960s and early 1970s is that happiness is something else today than it was at the time. But the tools to achieve it are many of the same, namely the Community's own and political democratic control of the resources. To continue looking for oil is to close the eyes of the market-driven crash that oil industries are going to experience, both because demand is changing and because it is not a renewable resource. At the end of the day, I would like to comment that the government has also given a different priority to the oil and gas industry, namely by electrifying the base. In this way, concrete priority is given to the use of land-based climate-friendly industries in specific cases, oil and gas. It's not to bet on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1048	The world is facing enormous transformations due to climate change. It's a movie that's going, as many people have seen, "Don't Look Up" – don't look up. It's time to look up and see what's going on. We also need to make enormous changes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, take care of nature and stop pollution in order to limit the change we are facing as much as possible. The main message from the Glasgow conference this December was that it is still possible to reach the 1.5 degree target, but it requires enormous changes. We need to reduce the use of fossil fuels by 50 pst. in nine years – 50 pst in nine years! –and it has to be done globally. There are two reports that have come this year that change and have changed the discussion internationally fundamentally. The first one came in our IEA report, which says there is no need to look for more oil and gas after 2021. The second is the UNEP production gap report, which came in October, which shows that to achieve the 1.5 degree goal, we can only pick up half of the findings that have already been made. In this case, it is not possible to keep posts here as if this would not affect Norway or that Norway should not be involved in that change. Of course, we also need to plan for – and I assume that we all agree – that we will achieve the goal of keeping global warming below 1.5 degrees. There is no one here saying that we should stop oil and gas production tomorrow, there is a new oil exploration and search for new fields. Of course, we're going to have production. As the representative Mr Haltbrecken pointed out, with the very shy petroleum tax package that came in connection with the coronary apathy, there are fifty projects that are now under way. I think the main debate in the next few years will be more which of these are we now need to say no to, than that there is new oil exploration we need. The discussion has also changed internationally. The Norwegian mantra that we have to get it down on the demand side is, of course, correct. We need to get demand down. We are far ahead in Norway with electric cars and green shipping, we show in many ways how it can be done, but just as in the international discussion on coal, it can not only be about demand, it must also be about the production side. When we discuss coal, no one disagrees that it's both about saying no to new coal mines and getting consumption down. On oil, it's about to be the same. Yes, there has to be much greater pressure to reduce the consumption, but the production must also be planned on the basis that we will achieve the objectives of reducing consumption. Then I hear, yes, but we're going to have carbon capture and storage on the gas production. That's left-hand for. We're going to have to put in place and implement Langskip. We also have to get to blue hydrogen, simply because green hydrogen isn't coming fast enough to be able to take over and compete it out. But then that's what you have to plan for. Then you can't bring oil exploration and everything else in addition. With regard to the EU taxonomy, the EU is now to be discussed. They may come up with a small opening for a green definition of investments in natural gas, but it's very narrow. It is at gas power plants that must be cleaner than any gas power plant today, it must replace coal or oil, and they define it as a transitional energy source towards 2035. I have been in battles about the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja – it was long, it was a hard fight to win it – the Mørebank and others, and I am absolutely sure that even if stopping exploration activities is not adopted today, this will be a debate that dominates during this big period. I don't think there are many people in 2025 who think we should look for more oil and gas for projects that might open in 2034/2035. This is just the beginning of a discussion in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1074	Happy New Year’s grandeur and energy and environment committee! I think I've heard this debate before, but that's something that's changed too. It is that the entire international community speaks with even stronger voices to Norway than they have ever done before. The UN Secretary-General has never been so clear before. The International Energy Agency has never been so clear before. And the Norwegian alliance against increasing dependence on fossil energy is also becoming stronger. Still more looking up. ‘Don’t look up’ is the title of one of the big movie talkers of the Christmas season. The film is satirical and is about how a comet with a course towards the earth is not stopped by short-term politicians despite clear scientific recommendations. The link to the climate crisis is obvious, except that unfortunately, climate change is today a most real threat to life and health, to people and ecosystems around the world. Fresh figures show that the global CO 2 emissions can set a new record in 2022 – the year we are now in. What we already know about the world's total reserves of oil is greater than what can be burned if we're able to avoid more than 1.5 degrees of heating. If we bring coal and gas in addition, the world is ten times larger reserves than what we can burn without risking or knowing that we are going to reinforce an ecological and social crisis into the unimaginable and insurmountable. It is therefore very absurd that the government and the majority of the population still do not, in our time, run down the oil activity, but will step it up. The world has to become climate neutral by 2050, that is zero emissions within 28 years. Nevertheless, the government is developing and looking for new oil and gas fields to be in operation for decades to come, knowing that this will lock workers and our economy into an increasingly uncertain industry. The revenue we have from the oil today is from the investments we've made, which is yielding today. Well, but not in any other industry, it's an argument to continue in exactly the same way with the exact same investments -- that it worked early, when the rest of the world changes. Norwegian oil and gas estimate the investments on Norwegian base at 174 billion. kr only this year. What if we instead arranged for these investments to be made in new green industries, investments that had given a forward-looking job to knowledge-rich heads in the petroleum and supply industries, and perhaps developed new jobs in sea wind, circular economy or mainland industry? There are many possibilities for a country like Norway. Since the Green Party entered the Storting, the alliance against more oil exploration has grown. I am very glad that we have made suggestions to do so, along with Red and SV, and that the Left also supports it. Most youth parties also want to stop in oil exploration, in addition to the entire wide environmental movement, the Church, former government councils from the Workers' Party and the Right and people in the oil industry who are also concerned about their job and the future of their children. I think a lot of them routinely vote down this proposal in the hall, really deep down know they're on the wrong side of the story. What is responsible for both the oil workers, for the Norwegian economy, for the climate and for nature, is to stop looking for ever new fossil energy that we're going to get right to make sure is burned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1096	There is no doubt that this is a repetition of a debate, but it is no less important for that reason. For the Christian People's Party, we are very clear in our position that we believe that we have a great responsibility to achieve the Paris Agreement and the objectives set there, but we also want to promote our own proposal in the matter – I will address it immediately before I forget it – and we believe that Norway must reduce the pace. We need to have an enhanced effort. We have that in many fields to achieve the climate targets. We also have to keep it in this field. If you look at what oil and gas industries have meant to Norway over a long period of time, it has been enormous. Yes, economically, but it has also contributed to employment and not least to technological development. As we see it, we believe that the important competence that is in the industry must bridge to the new industries that we are going to develop, which depend entirely on the competence and knowledge that the sector has in order to succeed. We as countries are also in a special position to take the leading position in technology development. We have the economy, and we have the knowledge of the skills needed to find the new solutions. I agree with several of those who have been on the tax page. When we base our policies on climate and risk, but also economic risk. What was done by the Stortinget earlier on the tax page, I think, is unfortunate, because it is true, as many people have argued, that it can help to expand fields that are not profitable. Right now the prices are at a completely different level, so we'll see about it, but I'm happy with what the Solberg government put forward in the last budget, which was adopted for this year -- a change in the tax system that makes sure that it's the profitable investments that are being expanded. We've looked at it as the broadly complex climate change committee presented in its report. The Christian People's Party programme is clear that we believe that future licensing should be limited to the extension or extension of already existing production in so-called mature areas. The reason why we mean it is because there is a lower risk of economic expansion and searching around the areas where there is already existing infrastructure. This means that the risk is also the lowest. We believe it would be a sensible approach now, using the areas that have already been opened, where it is mature, and giving permits there, but slowing down the pace with regard to what has been in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1109	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1114	The Government will not wind up the development of the oil and gas industry. The petroleum sector is a highly productive industry that contributes to high incomes, value creation and jobs in Norway. We will facilitate the continued high level of activity on Norwegian soil, and the effects on land will benefit the whole country. Petroleum policy, the framework for activities and the consideration of nature and the environment and other social conditions have been the subject of thorough assessments and evaluations in the EEA over several decades. The objectives and framework conditions for the petroleum industry have been based on a broad political majority and given stable and predictable conditions for nearly 50 years. This has served the Norwegian people and Norwegian industry and jobs well. The government is pursuing a responsible and predictable petroleum policy in the face of the world’s sustainability and climate challenges. The world's population is growing. Large groups need to be lifted out of poverty, and wealth levels will increase. This implies an increased demand for energy over time, while reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. These challenges need to be addressed in parallel. Both sustainability and climate challenges are global and therefore need to be addressed through international cooperation. Established Norwegian climate policy is based on the principle of UN-led climate cooperation that each country is responsible for emissions from its territory and in its economic zone. It is a wise approach that we will continue. In the Hurdal platform, we point out that government climate policy should create and maintain jobs and ensure fair distribution, strong national ownership of natural resources and active international cooperation on energy and climate. We're going to achieve our climate goals. Then the emissions have to go down to the whole economy. The emissions per unit produced on Norwegian continental shelf are already relatively low compared to the average international. They're going down, and they're going down. In the context of the Storting's decision on temporary changes to the Petroleum Tax Act in spring 2020, a broad majority was asked – from the current government parties as well as the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party – the government together with the industry to present a plan to reduce emissions from oil and gas production on Norwegian pst by 50 pst. by 2030. The government is continuing this work, including: as mentioned in the Hurdal platform. If the world is to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, we must have a transition to the low-carbon society. This requires a reinforced climate response in the years to come. There are people in this transition, women and men in the basement who work on a Norwegian base and who have their daily work there. They're also going to have a future and something to live from. The government's policy should therefore actively support a green shift based on the expertise of the oil and gas industry in new industries. We will therefore facilitate a stable level of activity on the Norwegian base of oil and gas activities, with increased intakes of industries related to carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, sea wind, aquaculture and minerals. There have been great values from our oil and gas resources in the last 50 years. Norwegian fields today cover about 2-3 pst. of the daily needs of oil and gas in the world. Norwegian resources should be expanded and produced economically also in the future, as long as there is a need. That is why we want profitable expansions to be carried out, and therefore we want economical exploration and economical measures for increased extraction to be implemented. We have a framework that facilitates this. So our concession system is solid. We will continue to grant permits to search for oil and gas by conducting concession rounds. The majority of the area open and available for the granting of new permits is in the areas currently covered by the TFO scheme. The TFO rounds – and their implementation – are therefore the cornerstone of the concession policy today. The government will facilitate a continued high level of activity on a Norwegian socket. As part of this, we will continue to conduct concession rounds and thus continue to grant permits to search for oil and gas in the future. So we don't want to do what the representatives propose. No one will profit from it, either in Norway or in the rest of the world. Nevertheless, we must be uncompromising in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1137	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1142	There was an entire petroleum industry that looked forward to the 26th concession round, and many saw that there were blocks in the eastern part of the Barents Sea that could be opened, with permission to explore more. Many saw that there would also be a lot of gas in those parts of the Barents Sea. Gas is important in a transition phase for the EU. As you know, the European Commission is calling for gas to be green in the EU's taxonomy, at least in a transitional phase. If the EU approves gas and decides that it is part of the EU taxonomy in a transitional phase, will the government immediately start work on the 26th concession round with a view to opening up new areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1147	A recent 25th round has been completed and the allocation is ongoing. The budgetary agreement with SV states that a possible 26th concession round will not be announced in 2022. We shall continue to grant permits to search for oil and gas in the areas already open and available for petroleum activities. The pre-defined areas, TFO, are currently covering most of the open available search area on Norwegian pedestal. The TFO scheme will continue unchanged and will normally be a TFO round both in 2022 and in the following years. According to long-term practice, the TFO area will be further expanded in line with further matured areas. If it is most appropriate to give access to other open, accessible areas through TFO rounds or numbered rounds, we will come back once we have made those assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1154	I then understand that the EU and the European Commission's work on classifying gas as green in EU taxonomy does not affect government policy in this area. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1159	With regard to TFO rounds and numbered rounds, it does not have a direct impact, but it is clear that the EU has major ambitions in climate policy, and there will be consequences for Norway in many areas. Norway wants to cut its greenhouse gas emissions in cooperation with the EU, and at the same time the EU is our main gas market. It will still be for many years to come. Migration in the EU offers many opportunities. Not least, it means carbon capture opportunities, which means marine wind and hydrogen opportunities, meaning Norwegian policy. Norwegian marine minerals will also be important for EU renewable efforts, and therefore we will support them during a green shift where we will also build on the expertise of the oil and gas industry in new industries. At the same time, as I have said, we will facilitate a stable level of activity on the Norwegian base. Norwegian gas fields are competitive at a low price and by virtue of proximity to the market and an efficient transport system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1164	The President would like to remind you of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1169	We heard from the government that the government wanted to develop Norwegian oil and gas, not liquidate. But it's in stark contrast to the fact that the 26th concession round was postponed. The Director of Norwegian Oil and Gas states that there is a need to prevent a steep fall, and Norwegian Oil and Gas says: ‘We are concerned that the 26th round will be postponed. The important thing is that we make available attractive land to ensure jobs and income to the community, which will also contribute to the green transition’. Does the Council agree with Norwegian oil and gas that it is worrying that concessions are being postponed?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1180	Two assimilated concession rounds are established for an appropriate exploration of all areas of Norwegian base. All areas open to petroleum activities and available for new allocations may be illuminated in numbered concession rounds or included in the predefined range. The areas included in the various concession rounds are guided by petroleum professional assessments and by the maturity of the areas and, in particular, the need for step-by-step exploration and use of time-critical resources. A recent round of 25th-numbered concession rounds has been completed. In recent years there have been no annual numbered rounds, but there are TFO rounds happening annually through a predictable process, so that industry can continuously use resources to understand the area better. This means that most of the search on Norwegian pedestal takes place within the TFO area, and it will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1185	Red is also concerned that people will have work in the future. That is precisely why it is important that we give priority to industry other than that which contributes to global emissions, which the Council of State did not talk about as much in its contribution. Right now there are quite concrete conflicts in Eyegarden, Mongstad and Tyssedal on whether we should prioritize oil and gas and electrify the socket, or whether we should prioritise new, climate-friendly industry. I wonder if the Council of State believes it is responsible, sound and forward-looking policy to prioritise Norwegian oil and gas over Norwegian climate-friendly industry in Øygarden, Mongstad and Tyssedal, to take some local examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1192	I do not think I would fully agree with the premise that priority should be given to one industry over the other. Both parts are industry. We have industry on Norwegian base, and we have industry on the mainland in Norway. For example: the eye-earth industry is under constant development. We also have gas, which is produced on the Troll field, which is now electrified. First of all, we are concerned that they should have a stable framework. They've got a concession, which the government obviously won't withdraw, because it's important to bring down the emissions. It reduces emissions by hundreds of thousands of tonnes of CO 2. But they have some terms. Since they have gas turbines, the conditions are there, so that development in other areas should not be rocked. I would like to remind you that, for example, the development of blue hydrogen in Eyegarden requires access to North Sea gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1202	I agree with the Council of State that cutting emissions on the base is an important climate action to follow up. My question really concerns these reports we have now seen: the IEA report from last year, which says that we cannot have new search activities if we are going to reach the 1.5 degree target, and also the production gap report, which says that we can only pick up half of what we have already found. Then I hear the council say that there are profitable projects for which you should be, even with new oil exploration. Then my question is, will the Council of State take into account, when assessing profitability, whether the world actually reaches the 1.5 degree mark, or is there something the Ministry of Oil and Energy is quite passive about?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1209	We are in no way passive about that, because the climate risk that is takes the companies and, of course, the Ministry of Oil and Energy into account. The aim is in many ways to replace fossil energy with renewable energy worldwide, in Norway, in Europe and in the rest of the world. Then it is that the profitability here will at some point be declining, and of course it must be included in all new projects. Today, however, Norway is a very reliable supplier of gas to Europe, and in view of, among other things. the high energy prices in Europe in the autumn have also been requested by Norway to supply more gas to European countries. We also deliver e.g. gas north of the polar circle. Asta Hansteen in the Norwegian Sea has been delivering gas in pipes to Europe since 2018, among others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1216	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1223	The Party of Progress has been and is clear that the oil industry is to be further developed. It creates growth, well-being and jobs along the coast and helps us build roads, schools, hospitals, and have as good a standard of living as we have. Reducing industry activity will not cut global emissions, but it will shift production, well-being and jobs to countries such as Russia and Saudi Arabia. The representative of Bastholm said the rest of the world is changing, but my answer is that I think you have to deal with the realities of the world. If we cut our share, it's not like other countries want to think about one and two and three times and think that then we have to do the same thing. Do the representatives in this room really believe that Russia will think that this is a noble and fine thing to do, that Putin will sacrifice value creation, jobs and access to energy, which is a vital commodity out there in the world? Do you think bin Salman and Saudi Arabia will do the same? Or will it perhaps be the oil producing countries in Africa that will do the same, just three days after you've read that Algeria will spend $40 billion on further developing its oil industry? I think they'll produce a little bit more to seal the production hole that we're leaving behind. Some people in this room may think that the United States will at least follow Norway. I want to remind you of the argument from exactly the same as today is fighting to limit oil exploration. They were very clear that 20 years ago the United States went to war for more oil, because they wanted to control the oil resources in the world. But maybe you think the mindset has changed away in the United States now. The representative of Elvestuen mentioned the climate summit in Glasgow. Well, what was the last Biden did before he went to the climate summit in Glasgow? It was to make sure that oil production was increased in the United States. One must relate to the realities of the world, and in that world Norway is a very small country and, to a large extent, a weightless country. It would be very unwise to reduce our production. Norwegian gas cuts emissions in Europe, nor is it wise from a safety perspective to make Europe more dependent on gas from Russia. So we're going to be proud of the industry. From a welfare perspective, from a climate perspective and from a security perspective, it makes sense for it to develop further. The representative Marhaug mentioned whether there was a love relationship between the Advance Party and Red. Then I can at least say that in most circumstances there is reason to ask which of the parties has come out best of the choice of life, and here I think we can conclude that in that case Red has come out best of the choice of partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1236	Norwegian oil and gas are one of the world's purest productions. We have 1/20-part of the average carbon emissions per unit of gas produced because we're using the gas, we're not torching it. We send it to Europe, where it replaces coal and other polluting energy production. It makes no sense to stop search warrants on Norwegian pedestals and scale down and phase out Norwegian pedestals, because the world needs energy. Europe enjoys Norwegian gas very well these days. We export Norwegian oil and gas every day – an energy of 7 TWh every day. For information, these mythical and controversial foreign tables are also discussed here in the storeroom, 13 TWh each in capacity, i.e. a few days of Norwegian oil and gas exports. It would be a disaster for the EU and very negative for the emissions of Norwegian oil and gas to be phased out, as this proposal is the first step to take. The SV was against the corona tax package in the oil sector here earlier, but what we now experience – where it was claimed that it would be unprofitable fields, we had to subsidize them, it was purely a loss for the treasury – is that we see billions of revenue in the tens and hundreds of classes to the treasury. This is mentioned here both by the United Nations and by other bodies. The UN is not an oracle. Although the UN Secretary-General draws the end of all oil exploration, Norwegian politicians, in fact, still have to be able to develop independent thinking. Another sacred cow, the EU, is now a very good example of how wrong it can be when misguided and undiscovered climate policies trump security of supply and sensible energy policies. Blackouts, personal and commercial ruin and increased climate emissions are experienced through most parties' leading star, Germany, climate policy. Norway has already reduced production from 3 to 2 million barrels, but world consumption has not changed because of it. The world's population is increasing by 8 000 people per hour, 200,000 per day, and they need energy. Norway has an important role to play in requiring Norwegian oil and gas. We must therefore vote in favour of this proposal to stop the granting of readmissions on a Norwegian base and to open up the 26 concession round as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1249	This debate, like other climate debates, reminds me of religious debates. It is such that a world population who believes in virgin birth, rebirth after death, a sky full of merry virgins for those who die as martyrs, can believe anything. The new supplementary religion is the climate religion, which embraces it widely. Believers have almost all faith in the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the interpretation of them by politicians. Reports are based on mathematical modelling tools that are constantly being upgraded to predict the most complex natural phenomena of the globe, all under the generic climate. Just as belief in virgin birth is a fundamental element of Christianity, so the basic element of climate religion is that the only saving for the globe is zero emissions of the life-giving gas CO 2. The UN and the world's governments are obsessed with the new climate religion and organize their societies to make all believers. Differently based on common scientific methods such as joint research, source criticism and comparisons between the climate panel predictions and observations on the globe’s surface, know that man-made emissions of CO 2 mean little to the planet’s climate. Despite the fact that all reading and thinking people are well aware that the globe's climate has been changing since the morning, becoming non-believers, like me, called climate-denialists and otherwise bullied out of the public discussion. Now, the common sense is almost completely alienated from the public debate and from the public and private sectors. Almost all important decisions, public as private, need to be justified by lower emissions of CO 2 or the dream of the green shift. Anyone who does not provide such a justification must expect to be made a loser in any competition with one of the believing climate-religious fanatics. This was a cruel ointment, but it should also be said, so that we get the picture of what's happening. Now we see just the consequence of climate religion and the green shift: sky-high electricity prices, even in the country that was taught to have reasonable access to electricity for the population and businesses. It is time for more people to start becoming critical of the new climate religion that has gained far too much power in too many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1273	I want to start by thanking the Right and Advance Party for the good management of oil and energy over eight years. Therefore, I would also like to say that it is very funny to hear from this pulpit, and in the attitude and suggestions of the Progress Party, that one is concerned that the 26th concession round now does not come in 2022 – all the time Tina Bru, before she left as a councillor, just when she was asked if there was a 26th concession round in 2022, was uncertain whether that was going to happen. But it's also quite common that it doesn't happen every year. If we go back and see, we see that the 23rd round was in 2015. Then it goes two years before the next round, on 24. It was in 2017. Then from 2017 we have four years, until 2021, before the 25th lap came. Then it's a little strange that you try to play a game about that you're going to wind up the industry because there's not going to be a 26th lap in 2022. That being said, I share the impatience and the desire to have activity, among other things. in the Barents Sea, and it's important to keep working on exploring that area. Then I want to comment a little on what has been said, because it's always about that we don't want to wind up, we're not going to turn the cranes back, when it comes to proposals from the Red Party, the Green Party and others. But that's the reality and the consequences if you don't look any more. At least be honest with what you say. That means that investment, capital and jobs are disappearing, and we can't talk about this without taking into account just that: the consequences for people and business. In the region I represent, we have the largest supply cluster to just the petroleum industry in the north. What do they need? They need stability, predictability and volume. They now have it, and what they do when they have it is to invest in renewables – because they have muscles to do, they have resources and capacity. They invest in smelt production, seaweed and several other industries that will be there in the future. Then I just want to say, it's about having two thoughts in your head at the same time. We can do that, and Norway has shown that we have always done so. We're going to change, but we're going to do it with people and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1286	First to the representative Carl I. Hagen: this is not a question of faith where we are kind of quite equivalent on both sides. No, it's a large majority who follow and ask questions about the scientific advice we get. It's always a development of what you expect of the future, and then you have a small minority who deny that science. For the left, it's clear: we have to follow science, that's the advice we have to take. That's right, we're saying, it's not going to end the production we have now. I am also pleased with Norwegian gas production for Europe. Of course we need it, and it's good that it's there now. What this is about is when we're going to stop looking further for oil and gas. I assume that the majority here who think we should follow science, believe it would be an ideal that we keep global warming below 1.5 degrees. Then it is not possible just to continue as before. At some point, it doesn't pay off with new activity and new fields we're going to pick up. If we're going to follow the international technical advice, it's now. Then, in response from the Council of State, I hear that climate risk assessment is being taken, but the climate risk assessment is being left to the companies. If the companies then assume whether their profitability is that we reach the 1.5 degree goal, or if you expect an increase in consumption and consumption, I don't know, but I think we have to start asking questions about it, in order to reach the goal. I do not think Russia or Saudi Arabia will be in the forefront of the transition, but the change we see in Europe is strong, and it has an impact far beyond the borders of Europe. With regard to the developments we see in the United States, there is a difference between who sits nationally, but when you look at states and economies, there's a lot of development there as well. This is also evident in many other countries. That'll be the lead. We rely on this to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. To the representative of the Progress Party who always points out that Norway is a tiny country without international influence: No, Norway is a country, and we have a significant influence within the climate cooperation that is, far beyond the size we have, and we have an economic position, both with the economy we have, and within the petroleum fund that makes us more important than that. In the end, I would like to ask the Council of State something about the 26th concession round. It's deferred, and it's happy for the Left, but then the question of the TFO award is: when we postpone the concession round, will it also mean that the TFO round is not extended when it's published? Otherwise, the postponement doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1302	I think it is worth mentioning that both Norway and the oil and gas industries are prepared to cut the consumption of coal, oil and gas in the world – both regionally and globally – in the years to come. It is not because the ‘climate religion’ has had a major growth; it is because the more profitable renewable energy sources become, the more stringent climate requirements are imposed, and the more investment moves, the more regional and global demand for fossil energy will also fall. In the perspective message we provided, it is stated that Norwegian oil and gas production will fall by 65 pst. because demand will fall. But the search activity in the next few years is important because it will limit the decline and ensure that we do not lose jobs, income and competences that we need for new industries and industry and for cutting emissions. Sea breezes, as several have mentioned today, are a very good example of our prerequisites for building a large and important supplier industry. Blue hydrogen, an important energy option without emissions for ships, heavy transport and industry, is another example. It will be such that Norwegian gas in Europe can be important to ensure that large parts of the transport sector are electrified. But then we need stable activity on Norwegian pedestal over time. That's the global demand we have to meet, otherwise we just move the production capacity to other countries. To the representative Marhaug, I would like to say that it is not a caricature to believe that this Document 8 proposal is a rapid closure of the oil and gas industry. Red is not only against new readmissions; they also want to withdraw 23rd, 24th and 25th concession rounds. There is a crash landing for Norwegian oil and gas industries and industries. I think it's a calculation for energy that doesn't go up, from multiple parts in this room. Many mention the IEA report, but ignore what it really says. It is that we need an enormous increase in renewable energy by 2030 and 2050 to succeed, among other things. from wind power. The parties that, on a case-by-case basis, are opposed to the development of new renewable energy also in Norway, which wants to wind up Norwegian oil and gas industries, while at the same time worrying about electricity prices in Europe, need to look again at their calculation. High gas prices are the cause of high electricity prices in Europe, and Norway covers 22 pst. of Europe's overall demand. In the energy transition in Europe, Norwegian oil and gas will be an important source of energy. There is also an important security policy perspective here, which I think is underpinning several parties: if the EU becomes more dependent on Russian gas imports, there is reason to fear that several countries will be exposed to economic and political pressure in a crisis situation. That's what you're playing out right now. These are perspectives I believe that all the parties must bring with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1317	My comment about the love relationship between Red and the Advance Party was that there is no love at all, at least not in this case. In this case, there is a love relationship between the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. That is why the representative Sivertsen Næss was able to thank the Right and the Advance Party for their efforts in previous governments. To the comment of the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde, I would say that the oil we have found will last for decades to come. Therefore, this is not a liquidation of the oil and gas industry as such. But there are some decades we have to spend building new industries, not continuing like before. That is what is the basis for this proposal as well. It says now we're going to say, once and for all, that we're going to stop looking for more oil and gas. It must be seen in the context of other industrial policies. It's the one that's standing still. What you're actually doing now is you're just going to keep betting on oil and gas. Then you can pretend that there's no difference between that and other industry, but the power situation we have today proves that it is. There are many places, perhaps especially in the West, where I come from. I mentioned Mongstad, Eyegarden and Tyssedal. These are places where the pure energy is going to be carried out on the base. That means the death of the Norwegian mainland industry in the long run, if that's what we're going to end up with. Finally, with profitability: I am fully aware that the oil and gas industries are profitable. I didn't look like anything else either. But when we started investing in Norwegian oil and gas, it wasn't profitable, and that's the time we're in now: we have to invest in other industries, which are not profitable right now, but can be profitable in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1326	The representative Marhaug spoke both in the first post and in what she just held, that there is a crazy presentation of the proposal that this will lead to the liquidation of the oil industry. But here we have to deal with the realities, and the reality is that of the cost of oil industry of about 250 billion dollars. kr per year is 70 pst. Of them, about 175 billion. kr, related to the search and development of new activity. Only 30 pst. goes to the operation and maintenance of existing production. So if today's proposals from the Green Party, Red and SV, and now with the support of the Left, are adopted, then tens of thousands of employees along the coast will lose their jobs overnight. It will lead to bankruptcy, mass unemployment, empty houses along the whole coast and lower living standards, and it will not affect global emissions. The representative Sivertsen Næss noted that she was surprised that the Progress Party was so critical of the Workers' Party and the Center's party to agree to SV's demand for the 26th concession round, because Tina Bru had submitted the same. There is no reason to believe that the Progress Party would have been less critical of Tina Bru, if it were the government of Solberg who was now sitting and driving, and the Progress Party who had negotiated with them. We had been equally critical, and we had never accepted that the 26th concession round should not be carried out. The representative of Elvesuen considered Norway to be a very important country in the world. But if that's the way Norway is going ahead, I would very much like to know which of the countries Russia, the United States, Saudi Arabia and Algeria will come to Norway and do the same if we cut out oil exploration. If that's how we have such an influence, we should use that influence to ensure that we get an international code against torching. Norway has a strict legislation on torching, which means that we produce the purest oil and gas that is, but if we had managed to put in place an international code with the same standard as in Norway, only to introduce a ban on torching west of Africa would have cut emissions by more than 50 million tonnes. It is more than the total emissions of Norway. Then I believe that's where we should put the effort, not to cut out oil exploration and reduce activity on Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1335	All these parties that are shouting the climate crisis here on every occasion, with only a few weeks of interruptions that have had to deal with the sky-high power prices, are now proposing a policy that will increase global emissions. It will exacerbate this crisis for which all parties are so concerned. If you want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Norwegian oil and gas is the last step out. The world needs energy, it's going to do it for decades to come. The EU's climate policy, presented as the holy grail, has fallen this year – we are seeing a self-imposed European power crisis, due to a misunderstanding of climate policy that has thwarted security of supply. That's not the way to go down Norwegian oil and gas. As the representative Roy Steffensen points out, the exploration activity is the majority of petroleum investments annually. Stepping out and stopping new search warrants is the first step to liquidate Norwegian oil and gas, and we have to stop that. The road to hell is paved with good intentions, and this proposal is a good example of this. If greenhouse gas emissions are to be cut, the money must be spent wisely. It is then to address the major sources of pollution internationally. Pumping up more gas is what pushes coal, not as Germany does, which has increased the use of coal this year. We want to make this clear again that we support the launch of a new concession round as soon as possible and that Norwegian oil and gas are maintained at a high level. It is beneficial for our country, for all it employs, but also for global climate change emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1346	My post will be reasonably short. I have only undertaken the ingratitude task of not letting the claims of the Progress Party on climate religion and hysteria stand undisputed while I meet at Stortinget. So here it comes: the climate crisis is not a religion. It's not excessive hysteria. It's a crisis that takes life, destroys nature, and destroys our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1351	I have a brief reply to the representative Sivertsen Næss. It is very positive that she expresses support for the oil and energy policy that has been pursued under the Solberg Government, and I think the Workers' Party has a very good starting point for pursuing a good oil and energy policy. With regard to the 26th round of the concession, it becomes easy to say that the former oil and energy minister might not have planned to do this round. It is those in government who have to make the overall assessment and set up a national strategic analysis. So while negotiating at Stortinget, the gas price went up by 500-600 pst. Our allies in Europe express great fear of being very dependent on Russia, so the energy supply from Norway has been updated in terms of security policy. At the same time, we know that it's going forward to look at blue hydrogen and ammonia. We need developments in the Barents Sea, and we need to know about and map oil and energy resources that may be cross-border across the Russian divide. I would say to the Workers' Party that it is important not to think that party-political horse-traders should be involved in such important issues, but that if you really thought it was right to go on with the 26th concession round, you might have talked to parties that might have been positive about it, rather than shooting at the previous government and using it as an excuse. So I wish the Workers' Party good luck and hope that there will be a steady and good oil and energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1362	Now, luckily, it's like this, or at least it looks like this, that it's not so inseparable that there's a multiple to voice for this. It seems that the Government Party, the Advance Party and the Right are at least some of them saying that the oil and gas sector should continue. There's some disagreement about the time aspect, but it's important to bring this with you. It has been said several times, both by the Minister of Finance and by others, that we must remember, now after the elections, that we are the people's servants, we in this House on the Stortinget. Of course we should be. But when we think about being people's servants, is it a cry from the inhabitants of Norway to wind up, suspend or threaten the oil and gas industries? Is there such a cry from the inhabitants that we, the servants of the people, are to receive? So that's how it sounds. That's what some of the parties get. But it's not like that. In the election campaign, there was a proposal from the government to increase some taxes on oil and gas, and there was a great deal of commitment among the inhabitants. In my own homeland, More and Romesdal, there are more than 20,000 added in oil and gas. They were quite shocked and very worried about the future. Thousands of thousands of countries have worked within the oil and gas industries, and there are large food clusters outside the oil and gas industries themselves that are synergistic when it comes to the workplaces that are there. It's one thing that Norway has its revenue from oil and gas industries, but it's hundreds of thousands of people in Norway who have worked their way into oil and gas. What should be replaced if individual batches in this room were to have their will to release and to build up the oil and gas sector? No one has received an answer. At least the signatures are intended to be their server. I'm going to listen to the inhabitants. In any case, the feedback I have received from those who have chosen me is that the oil and gas industries are absolutely not to be built down – it is to be developed and maintained for a long, long time in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1373	I didn't really intend to take the floor, but since the Right Party and the Advance Party are also partly trying to doubt the ability to further develop the oil and gas industry, linked to the 26th round, and that so many times in the debate, it's okay to mention this. It is not unusual for a person to delay or wait for the presentation of a round. On the contrary, it did the Solberg government repeatedly. They probably made two laps in eight years. They also did not provide any new kerosene message, because they considered the 2011 kerosene message, promoted by the Stoltenberg government, to be very good. They didn't have the ability to make changes to it, and we still control it. It shows that there are long-term runs laid down by a Workers' Party-led government, which also applies to our oil and gas industry. I would like to stress that even if a person wants to develop the oil and gas industry, it is not said that we should not make demands on it in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. On the contrary, we're going to cut 50 pst. by 2030. We're going to have net zero in 2050. The clear prerequisites for the further operation of the oil and gas industry are that it must be able to meet the climate objectives set there. That's how one also developed our mainland-based industry, precisely by making clear demands, but at the same time not taking from them the economic basis for further development. The same applies, of course, to the oil and gas industry, which can take new positions in carbon capture and storage, liquid sea wind, hydrogen, etc. The main basis for replacing the combustion of oil and gas is that we are able to provide sufficient renewable energy, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde said in a good way. It's the most important thing. It is a huge and demanding task that cannot be solved overnight. It is the most important task to relieve the importance of the oil and gas industry. In the end, since I see the representative Hagen redrawing himself in this debate, I would like to remind him of an article that appeared in the Netpaper on 19 October 2010. In his own reflection on the 1975 proposal of the Progress Party to sell Statoil's holdings in Statfjord, he said at the time that he was very "happy that the Storting did not listen to a young and inexperienced staging representative". When I heard Mr. Hagen's comments about the climate, I think the same advice stands out well now, although he now has both more experience and has become something older than he was in 1975.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1388	I thank Terje Aasland for another opportunity to say that I would like to wish the Workers' Party soon stopped spreading lies about what happened back then. I have never suggested selling Statoil's holdings in the Statfjord field. Notice what I said now: I never did. But I have apologized because in my pure youth I was a little too fascinated that we were not going to make all the demands on foreign oil companies that started looking for oil in Norway. I'm on it. It was an unwise decision. I'm sure Terje Aasland also had some unwise thoughts in his youth. But at least I'm older and I've changed my mind. It was a sensible oil policy led by Finn Song, Arve Johnsen and those who then crashed. It is thanks to those I have therefore also said later: Why in the world have we not made the same demands on those who manage our oil fund, that they have to set up business in Norway, do it from Norway, take Norwegian people on board to teach them how to manage finance? Our oil wealth is the new oil, and we could use it the same way, to make demands and build up an up-to-date financial industry, because it doesn't matter if a broker is in Oslo or Tokyo or New York. There we should use the power we have, saying that those who are going to manage our oil fund are going to do it from Norway, and they are going to take on Norwegian training. So at least I've learned that. Then to the representative of the Green Party, who made some claims about my comparison with religion and other things. I just want to say that all that representative from the Greens said was wrong. It wasn't true at all. There are enough scientists – I have the name of 500 of them down in the office and have referred to it earlier – who say: There is no climate crisis. There may be climate change, yes, but it has little to do with human activity. At that time, it is better to have an attitude to adapt to the climate change of nature, where appropriate – as nature has always had climate change in the past. That was my main message. Now I'm probably getting so old that I'm not going to change my mind any more, as long as I can stand on this speaker seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1397	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1402	As long as there have been people on earth, we have never before faced climate change as great as it is now. I think I also have voters that I should consider. I believe with the enormous challenges we are facing, with a climate crisis, with a natural crisis and also with pollution, politicians as leaders are needed, and not politicians who are just looking at how to deal with what is happening today. Fortunately, we've done things before. I've been on the limits of the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja – there's no more oil exploration. The limit of how far north we can go is drawn south. It's been removed from Jan Mayen and the Moorfields. I have participated in postponing the 25th concession round, and I now hope to postpone the 26th concession round, which also means that you do not extend the TFO, because then there is no point in postponing it. It has to be there now. So, of course, this is a discussion that needs to be carried forward. There is no doubt that if we are to achieve the climate objectives, we will have to stop the exploration activity in Norway. That's why it's just a matter of time. During this ageing period – in 2025 – this will be completely different from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1412	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1429	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1436	It is my first task as rapporteur, and I will present the position from the Energy and Environment Committee to Document 8:20, chaired by the representatives Sylvi Listhaug and Frank Edvard Sve. There is a three-part proposal in which representatives ask the Stortinge to decide that the government will return to the Stortinge with a plan for the drainage of the high-risk area of Åkneset in the municipality of Stranda and that the government will ensure that the NVE is provided with the necessary means to enable the drainage of the mountain plain at Åkneset to be carried out. I would like to thank the Committee for its constructive cooperation on this matter. The talks we have had underline that everyone understands that tailoring is an important and serious matter, and that social security is a major political responsibility. The reason for the work on the setting lies, in addition to the representative proposal, Announce. St. 33 for 2012–2013 on climate change adaptation in Norway and Melding. St. 29 for 2011–2012 on social security and preparedness. NVE has also produced two reports dealing with steps in Norway, report No. 77 and Report No 22nd@item: inlistbox This is just not a new case, and it is one of several things that NVE already has a big focus on and is doing well. Prevention and racial protection are very important to maintain social security in Norway. There's not a question about the race at Åkneset in Stranda municipality will go, but when. The size of the tsunami when the masses of mountains fall into the fjord, depends on whether everything falls at once, or whether it happens a little after a while. Here, calculations and forecasts have been made, and both evacuation and measures are planned to protect society from the damage caused by the race. Mountain peaks above the 54 million cubic meters of mountains that can rage were discovered in 1983, and measuring instruments show that this crack expands four to ten cm per year. The breed will apply to ten municipalities in the Storfjord region, and at least 5,000 people may be affected by the tsunami, in addition to the material damage. This recommendation we come with is primarily a political support to try out a new method, not an attempt to go into and overstep NVE's priorities in this work. The Committee's recommendation is made by members from the Right, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red, the Left, the Green and the Christian People's Party. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1451	The number is out. I expect the representative to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1458	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1463	Then the representative Birgit Oline Kjerstad has taken up the proposal of SV, the Progress Party, the Environmental Party of the Greens and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1468	Prevention is one of the most important tasks in managing natural hazards and events that threaten societies, life, health and values. The ride in More and Romesdal has a mountain party that is entitled to all of these factors. NVE’s reports in 2016 and 2021 state that Åkneset in Stranda municipality is classified as a high-risk mountaineering object with a high damage potential. It's stressful for a society to live in a strange rascal area. The positive thing about the 2021 NVE report is that it can probably be possible to slow down the slides in the mountain masses by draining water from the mountain. This will make a step by step over several years. There are good examples from other countries where such drainage measures have resulted in a reduced rate of rock slipping. The NVE outlines a step-by-step implementation with the continuous evaluation of the actions. The research carried out by the NVE shows so much good results, and the drainage is assessed to have very good benefits for society compared to costs. If one starts with the first phase in 2024–2025, the start-up costs will be around 30–40 million. kr. Already in 2022, the funds for the prevention of flood and scrambling hazards increased by 120 million. Compared to 2021. By 2022, the total allowable value of NVE's flood work and tailor-made measures will be more than 720 million. kr. It is the NVE that prioritises tailor-made measures in the annual priority of the tailor-made project, based on research, studies and observations. The Labour Party has confidence in the NVE as a trade union director and in the NVE priorities. I want to make an explanation of vote. The centre party and the Labour Party will also support proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1483	Norway has a dramatic nature and a lot of weather, if we can say it that way. Climate change means that we can probably expect a climate that is both wetter, warmer and wilder. It will also affect nature by the fact that we will more often experience conditions such as: floods and droughts, and not least breeds. One of the most important tasks for the state is to protect its own citizens. This is why Norway uses a lot of resources, among other things. racial protection and climate prevention. In the future, we're going to spend more resources on it. In recent years, the population has been reminded of how unstable nature can be, first through the annual minutes of the minute broadcasts from the mountain party Mannen in Rauma, and not least with the tragic mercury leap at Gjerdrum one year ago. The film industry has also put the matter on the agenda through the disaster film «The Wave», a film that is just based on a race from Åkneset, which this case is about. Due to its level of risk, it has been followed up over many years by experts and different types of measuring equipment, not least by the new seismic measuring equipment that earthquake researchers from NORSAR have put in place – all of this in order to ensure as good a monitoring as possible, in order to ensure the safety of the population. The centre party has been fighting for many years to strengthen the funds for flood and tailor-made prevention, and we are pleased that the government in the state budget followed it up with a powerful strengthening of the post. It is Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, as a specialised directorate, which prioritises the security projects to be carried out through annual leadership. At Åkneset, a project is well underway to divert water from the mountain, with good results, to delay the slides in the mountain massif. The NVE outlines a step-by-step implementation with a continuous evaluation of the measures. There is no doubt that this is a serious matter, not least for those living in the surrounding areas, and it will have enormous consequences on the day the mountain comes. Therefore, this is also classified as a high-risk object, and the NVE already gives great attention to the area. Their work is based on professional assessments, and the measures taken have a clear objective of protecting people and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1498	Work related to Åkneset is a high priority. It's about securing life, health and other social values. Work on floods and gliding has become a high priority during the Solberg government, with a higher allocation for each year since 2013. There are now very good measures to monitor movements at Åkneset, and there are good contingency plans. For the Right, it is also important that this work be followed up and that the plans for the pioneer work to be done with drainage be continued as planned and within the time period envisaged. We also assume that the government is going to follow it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1505	The Åknes/Tafjord project came into effect in 2003, following a statement of concern from the impending leadership of Fylkesmannen in More and Romesdal to the spokesmen of the municipalities located around the mountain plain of Åkneset. Already in 1996 – and in the years before – there was warning from the people who offered it. There was a gap bigger and bigger. In the past, one could skip it, but at last, one couldn't skip the crack, and it was so wide that they couldn't get over it. Then they notify the municipalities, the county took hold of it, and the municipalities started the Åknes/Tafjord project. It started in 2003, and the government was incorporated into it in 2004/2005. Over the years, more than 200 million were spent. kr for mountain monitoring. It's maybe the area in the world that has the most equipment in the mountains. There are instruments like geophones, lasers, radars and total stations scanning the entire mountain side. It's drill hole 100 meters down the mountain, with computers in the hole measuring motion all the way down to 100 meters. This mountain section, which is 54 million. cubic meters, 1.3 kilometers long and 700 meters wide, are 100 meters deep and the slips downwards are 100 meters deep, 60 meters deep and 33 meters deep, to be completely accurate. The starting point is that it's so formidable that it's hard to imagine what's real. It is quite right, as the case-speaker said, that it is not about the race going – the race is actually, by definition, in progress. It slips a little bit every year, but it has to collapse before you get a physical race in the fjord. In 1934, there was a race in Tafjord, a little further into the fjord, at 1 million. cubic meters, which amounted to 3 million. cubic meters that went into the spring. There were 75 meters high waves in the middle of the fjord, and 40 inhabitants died in that rasul luck. One could mark waves out of the fjord and into other fjords. In Ørsta, the boats were signposted on land. That was three million. cubic meters -- here we're talking about 54 million. cubic meters, and maybe take the crash with you more mass as well. Every year, the national risk picture presents one of the five largest scenarios for a major disaster. The only thing that's been over this is pandemic – and we've seen what that leads to. So I am very happy that it seems that the Storting could be gathering in such a case. The municipalities, the county and the county have always worked to ensure that it is not a political matter. It should be a matter that the important levels of government take seriously, and then it is very important that the Storting give a clear order. We hope the government accepts that order. I can see that they want to do that, and it's very much appreciated the signatures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1520	The President will assume that the representative Sve will address the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1526	Rather, we agree with what was proposed by the committee at the end. It's a suggestion that everyone supports, including us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1531	It's all right – thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1536	First, I would like to thank the proposers for promoting the proposal. The journey is an important matter, and it is a matter on which the Left has been concerned for several years. Through this process, we receive both an important update of the current situation and an opportunity for the Storting to help push the process forward. From the left, this has been a discussion since we negotiated in the 2015 budget that the state would take over all the costs of monitoring Åkneset, which were important. In the past, it was the municipalities that started and financed it, at least the majority. Then it was important for us, in cooperation with the then government with the Right Party and the Advance Party, that the state took responsibility. For the financial year 2017, there were also negotiations here at Stortinget, where we received funds to launch the study that the NVE has now conducted, on the possibility and impact of a possible drainage of Åkneset. As a follow-up to it, I think it is very good that – as far as I can see – a unanimous big thing says that we should also go further with that process, and that we need to develop a plan for how drainage can be done. The NVE must, of course, be involved in and carry out the priorities that must be taken into account when it may need to be implemented. We have many areas that are exposed to race in Norway. This also provides a knowledge base for the Storting. If you get into a situation where the NVE believes there is a need for action, and that it needs to be implemented now, but there is a need for funds to do so, we have the knowledge base we need to be able to enter there, too, when we are dealing with, for example, budgets in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1547	I understand very well that there is a great deal of interest in this matter, and it was nice to listen to the representative Sve's knowledge-rich contributions. A measure that can reduce the risk of such a high mountain trail will have a major impact. It will have an impact locally and regionally, and it will have an impact on the people living in the area. There is a lot of well-being in prevention and racial protection. The NVE has investigated the possibilities of draining the mountain party Åkneset in Møre and Romesdal, thereby reducing the movement in the mountains. So far, the studies are fortunately showing promising results, and this is valuable knowledge of a new risk reduction measure for mountaineering. It is important that we, who live in a country with such a wild nature, gain more knowledge and competence about how to prevent future events. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that drainage is an entirely new and demanding measure. It has never been done in Norway before, and therefore it is also important that we listen to the judgements of professionals. The NVE recommends that such a measure first be planned and planned and then implemented in stages over several years. In-depth measurements and evaluations have to be carried out to assess whether the effect is good enough to continue. I would of course ask the NVE to draw up a plan for drainage, but in addition to that, I assume that progress must be based on the NVE's ongoing professional assessments and priorities. The lives, health and safety of the population are a high priority task for the government. It is therefore important for me to find out that the NVE has a comprehensive system of day-to-day monitoring and warning. This is established for all mountains in the country that are so-called high-risk objects, including at Åkneset. The monitoring system makes it possible to alert movements in the mountains in good time, so that people can be evacuated if a step is under development. This ensures the safety of life and health. However, if an action can help us to avoid the extensive damage caused by mountaineering, it is of course very interesting. The government is committed to increasing the pace of work to prevent all kinds of flood and tailoring damage. For 2022, the measures to prevent flood and tailoring damage have been increased by 120 million. kr compared to 2021, and the total appropriation for NVE’s work in this area will be more than 720 million. NOK 2022. The NVE prioritises its assistance to municipalities according to risk. The goal is to get as much back as possible in terms of reducing the risk of life loss and damage. These are the common principles for the use of funds for flood and tailor-made prevention, and it ensures that good professional judgements are based. Finally, I would like to stress that these principles should be upheld in this case too, in particular when it comes to a completely new and demanding action where it is necessary to gain in-depth experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1566	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1571	Actually, I would like to thank the Council of State for the article. It is an important matter, and I think it is very nice that the Council of State is so committed to this matter. This has been visited by quite a number of prime ministers, not least oil and energy ministers. I don't know if it's quite normal, but I want to invite the minister to visit, to be flown out. The NVE, with its centre at Stranda, is sure to set up and get the councils out on Åkneset. I think it might be a very useful information, even for the Council of State. So cordially welcome to Stranda. It's my hometown. If it was a little special -- it was an invitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1578	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1583	It is very nice to be invited, not least to the homesteads of bigots representatives, and race and tailoring is a field that engages me very much. I think there might be something about us Westerners, who have it a little inherent in us that we know how much danger there is in what is involved in racial and tailoring protection, and how important it is for us people to be safe. There's, as I said in my main post, a lot of well-being in the prevention of race and pace. So this is a project I would like to follow closely, and I understand how important it is. Of course, when the occasion comes, I'd like to come and see the mountain and the possibilities for a ski safety at Åkneset. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1588	The President may sign that Westerners have a special relation to this topic. The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1597	Yes, another Westerner, also from More and Romesdal – from the neighbouring municipality to Stranda, can be allowed to say when you're here in Oslo, at least it's not far away. I'm adding the basic information from the two NVE reports. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 22 from 2021, which first confirms that Åkneset in Stranda Municipality is classified as a high-risk mountaineering object with a high potential for damage, and second, that it may be possible to slow down this glare of the mountain masses – it also shows parts of the reports – so it is important now to drain water in the mountain masses. The drainage of the mountain party Åkneset is a promising, but at the same time new and demanding project. So far, research has shown good results, and drainage is considered to have very good benefits for society compared to costs. We see that the first construction phase with drilling and drainage of water in the upper mountain sections could be carried out in 2024 and 2025. The costs of this phase are currently estimated at approximately 30 to 40 million. kr. It is then very good for me, as a representative from More and Romesdal, to be able to support such a proposal and the good work that has been done in a cross-political way, and not least what the representative Frank Edvard Sve has done to contribute to, both through his work as a spokesman and also as a state politician. Then it's fun that we can stand here today, and that we are now asking the government to ensure that a plan for the drainage of the high-risk area of the great mountain plain at Åkneset in the municipality of Stranda is developed quickly, and we also believe that the government will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1615	It's a little unique moment that we're so few, and I really appreciate that in this case. It's the NVE's job to prioritize, figure out and figure out what to do. Our task in Stortinget is primarily to allow resources and priorities within what is most important. We are behind the budget agreement, and there has been more money for racial prevention and flood protection. SV also has an alternative budget where we've prioritised this even higher. I believe that is important in the future, because climate change and what is happening around us with it will only reinforce the need to prevent. What the flashing messages underline, and what TV documentaries underline about these questions, is that prevention is more profitable than repairing afterwards. I just want to end by saying that I very much appreciate Stortinget's attitude to this matter and that we can go on and get more done – hopefully more. We don't know if this will delay this race for so long, but the directorate will at least get very clear political support to try something completely new, which might give us both knowledge and new insight into other things in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1624	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The next item is the report, in line with the changes made to the agenda earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1651	The President proposes that Document 8:63 L be dealt with under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (e), i.e. that it is not taken into consideration. The President will open one entry from each group, with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes, for a explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1658	Let me first clarify this with the speaking time: Is it so to understand that the President uses his power under the first paragraph of Section 51 not to propose or open to, but to adopt a limitation of the speaking time of 3 minutes per party group? Is that correctly understood? Or is there now an open debate, according to § 52.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1663	The President has proposed a speaking time and it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1668	No, the president did not propose, he opened the door, because I would ask for the word to suggest that we deal with this under section 52.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1673	The President has the authority under Section 51 and has proposed 3 minutes for each party group for an explanation of vote – that is the explanation of vote we are now in – and it was clubbed without me seeing any protests against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1678	The debate should have been organised normally, according to § 52. In this case, voting cannot be allowed until we are given the opportunity to propose a different procedure, and I propose that it be dealt with under point (d) of the second paragraph of Section 39. I have adopted the Rules of Procedure to see what is said there, and the Stortinge Rules of Procedure, with comments, states that Paragraph 39, second paragraph, point (e), ‘rejected or not taken into consideration’, should ‘only be used where there are formal shortcomings in the proposal which make it not subject to substantive examination’. There are no formal shortcomings in the proposal that have been submitted, so that is not justified by that paragraph, in my opinion. And the proposal is not the same as the proposal I think the President has in mind. It is similar to one that was under consideration in December, but it is not the same proposal – there are significant changes to this proposal. Paragraph 39, second paragraph, point (e), ‘not to be considered’, ‘can be used when other reasons — including political substantive reasons — mean that the Stortinget will not further examine the proposal’ — i.e. political reasons. I understand that the bulk of the population does not want a debate on changes in consumer compensation in terms of the high electricity prices, which our proposal involves – a significant improvement. The entire Norwegian people are now waiting for the Storting to do dramatic things to prevent the big bills that come not only now in January – people will be shocked when they get them – but also come in February, March and perhaps later. Then I think it is very strange that the President refuses us a proper debate on this, of which much of the Norwegian people are concerned. In addition to rejecting a proposal that opens up for debate, the debate on the proposal is also limited, as the President just did – and the clock goes – after I asked questions about what the President actually opened up or adopted. It is reprehensible to try to crush the national assembly of the country from discussing the matter on which the entire Norwegian people are concerned. I am very deeply sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1691	The President has not limited the debate on the matter, because the matter is not under consideration. It's the procedure that's being treated right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1696	The procedure is a matter in itself. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1701	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has not received the floor now. The procedure is a matter, and it is given 3 minutes for each batch to give an explanation of vote. The representatives must respect that. Then there are many ways such a case could have been promoted. This case concerns the law on power support, and it was for treatment in Stortinget just before Christmas: on Friday 17 December, it was first treatment, and on 20 December, it was second treatment. And the proposal that is now being promoted is almost similar to the proposals – there were several of them – that were contested at the time. I have discussed this with the presidency, and we agree that it is right to reject this now. But the authority is with the president who presides at all times. Now the word is given to others who may wish to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1711	On the part of the Labour Party, we will support the proposal made by the President. As has been said here, a debate was held in Stortinget on 17 December on the same subject. Then it was second-hand processed in Stortinget on December 20th. We see no reason to deal with the matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1716	The size then goes to voting on the procedure for document 8:63 L. The President’s proposal that the proposal should be dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39, i.e. that it should not be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1723	President! I assume you can vote in favour of our proposal. We have made a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1728	Now we're going to vote for rejection. If that proposal falls, it would be natural to vote for a different procedure. Those who believe that the proposal should be dealt with in a different way – I expect the Progress Party will do so – will vote against the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1740	Before we go back to the case list, the president will remember that there will be a new vote at the end of the meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1756	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1763	As was just before when we dealt with the report case, on 17 December, the Stortinge had, through the legislative process, really the political debate on the power support system. Now, when we're dealing with Innst. 103 S and Prop. 45 S, both for 2021 to 2022, is in fact a purely technical admissibility case in relation to the decisions taken by the Stortinget on 17 December and as a result of it at second reading on 20 December. From that point of view, the Committee had actually put forward the working arrangements that it was not necessary to debate this matter now, because the debate was actually completed before Christmas. When I still take the floor, it's just to clarify that there's nothing new in the matter from December to now, so it's firm. Inner. 103 S and the treatment of Prop. 45 S is a direct consequence of the law decisions taken by the Stortinget in connection with Innst. 102 L and the treatment of Prop. 44 S, including those for 2021 to 2022. So to solve the proposals that have been put forward in this matter: first of all, it is a proposal from the Progress Party. I guess it's not really relevant anymore, as long as the bill is not being dealt with. In any case, there is no consistency in terms of payments, which are now laid down in the law before the New Year. Then there are three suggestions from Sofie Marhaug, on behalf of the party Red. Proposals Nos. 3 and 4 actually adopted, and made clear by a majority comment, in connection with the previous position – i.e. the position in which we dealt with the legislative proposition – that also makes it very clear that both joint ventures, corporate apartments and other households with electricity meters registered as an industrial activity must be included in the scheme. It was also stated that due to technical circumstances, payments may not be made until February, possibly in the first quarter, as the majority – in fact the whole Committee – agreed on in the previous position. I hope that we can deal with this, and that we will continue that method when it comes to the matter. I therefore believe that at least the last two proposals by the representative of Sofie Marhaug are superfluous, given that this has already been adopted. With regard to the first proposal made by Sofie Marhaug, to strengthen the electrical package system, the government has said very clearly that it follows the situation carefully and will possibly come back with adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1782	Sometimes it may make sense that all levels of Norwegian society listen to what's happening out there, and that we actually get the reality of the people we're going to rule in a national assembly. So there's a serious power price crisis out there among most people in Norway, and we don't need to spend much more time on it. People are tired of paying the huge bills, and I'm pretty sure that most of the people in this room have been judged by people who have received sky-high bills, which may be both ten and fifteen times higher than they normally had. It's a dramatic situation. Then the government, with the support of SV, has submitted a package in which to enter only fractions of the sums. I might be tempted to say that it'll be a little bit like going into a garden on the apple hose and taking 100 apples, and then knocking on the door of those who own the garden and saying, "You'll get seven apples, but then you'll have to boast of us." It's almost that level. The problem is that because of the high electricity prices, one gets 30-40 billion from Statnett and Statkraft to the Treasury. SEK in VAT and electricity charge, and then one must distribute between 5 and 5.5 million. kr for the inhabitants. It's probably hard for the inhabitants to understand. The suggestion we're making in this case, 20 billion. kr, is at the top of the table, so I'll bring it up again. It is Amendment No 1, the loose proposal. If it is agreed, then the government can come up with a bill afterwards, and it will be able to decide anyway. The exact order isn't that important, I think. In any case, the starting point is that I am reasonably sure that the Norwegian people are going to press so hard that this room is forced to bring new packages in the future. So far it has happened too late, too little and too long after the problem has arisen. In fact, we can't hold on to this in a national assembly, after my change of heart. It's important for us to be people's servants. We are the ones who are going to try to provide good services in the country. We cannot send the bill to our citizens because of a misguided climate and environmental policy in Europe, which will lead to sky-high gas prices. The calculation for the entire price range is sent to the inhabitants, and then we sit in this room and can't figure out a solution that's actually good for the inhabitants. I'm very, very surprised that one can't have a faster progress, but I'm recording it, and I'm pretty sure the Norwegian people are also registering. Proposal No. 1 is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1801	The representative Frank Edvard Sve then made the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1806	There is no doubt that there are now many who are struggling with sky-high bills. Before Christmas SV got in place an agreement with the government that improved the government's proposal for a power support system, and that included. 50000 more people now come under the housing support scheme and get proper support for the sky-high electricity bills. Nor is it a secret that SV initially wants a higher general support through the power management system. We have also noticed in the last few days that representatives of the government parties have been out saying that the government is following the situation, and that it can become relevant with increased support. In that case, I would like to warmly welcome the government and government parties to sit down with SV to discuss improvements in the provided package. So just a brief comment on the proposal to include housing and cohabitation. It's already included in the scheme, but it's also stated in the proposition that because of some technical challenges, the support is paid later. I would also like to point out that it was in fact a unanimous big thing that, before Christmas, adopted this power support package.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1817	I have to make an explanation of vote. With regard to the first solution of Red's proposal, where we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a matter of increasing the size of the power package, it is precisely that the government has given those signals. There were many parties on the Stortinget who wanted to strengthen the package before Christmas, and I think it's wise to include the Storing in a strengthening of that package, because there's a broader majority for it, and we want to be on it. So that proposal keeps Red. So to solve the proposals, no. 3 and 4. I would not have promoted them if it wasn't for the fact that there are nearly a million Northmen living in the joint ventures, housing laws and so-called share apartments that have not actually received a discount on their electricity bill for December. I believe that, contrary to the clear desire of the majority of the committee and of the majority of the European Parliament, it must, in fact, be as unanimous as that of others, that it should be put in place as soon as possible for those who live in apartments with a common meter. Then I understand that the reason why this is delayed is that there is a fear that it is contrary to EEA law. Then we have two inputs to the government. One is to clarify towards the EEA afterwards – that money has to be paid, and then you have to take that discussion up to the EEA afterwards. The second proposal is to resolve it through the House Bank as soon as possible, because we cannot have those who live in housing laws, joint ventures and equity apartments who are not allowed to participate in the ongoing repayment that is now taking place. Having said that, I believe that this is a common wish, and I ask that the proposals No. 3 and 4 are sent to the Rapid Reaction Committee there, since I feel that there is a common desire to get it in place quickly, if possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1828	The Green Party promoted a comprehensive proposal for a power package in the autumn to take care of those affected by the high electricity prices, while at the same time strengthening incentives for power saving and energy efficiency improvement. I would like to make a explanation of vote on today's loose proposals, because the Greens will vote in favour of the Reds' proposal. 3 and No 4, to ensure that housing rights and communities are also supported by the high electricity bills. This was something that the government promised to fix, but where they seem to have come short. Therefore, it is important to have a temporary arrangement with the House Bank where they can apply for support for the coverage of their electricity bills, while waiting for a better solution from the government. Then we will not vote in favour of proposal No. 2 from Red, to come back with a new and reinforced power pack. We agree that today's system is not good enough, but we will not vote for a proposal that can be interpreted as asking for more of the same. We must formulate clear frameworks on the part of the Storting if an enhanced system is to hit them with low income and low consumption in a way that helps those who need it the most, and those frameworks are not in place now. Nor have the members of the Committee had occasion to do so during today's debate, even if we sympathise with the intention behind the Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1837	I also want to make an explanation of vote, on behalf of the Christian People's Party. We had a different proposal when we discussed this matter before Christmas, when we dealt with the law. We meant and believe that the compensation is too poor. We proposed 80 pst. compensation. The majority of the country is 55 pst. I believe that the compensation that has come to the consumer's bills now shows very clearly that it is too poor to compensate, and therefore I still believe that it should have been much higher. A degree of compensation of 80 pst. I thought I had been much better. It's demanding for many people to pay the bills, which we've seen, have become both double and triple that. When it comes to the procedure, I'm very happy with what the president did instead, because I think it was absolutely right. There's been a consensus in the committee and in the Storting, that this is the way we're dealing with it. I would like to have a reinforced system, as I said. I still think that's right. That is why, unlike the Greens, we want to support proposal No. 2, from Red, because it's just that we believe that the government has to come back with a better order. We're going to work on in our way anyway, but I think that the proposal is good. With regard to proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from Red, I believe it has been taken care of – as the committee chairman has also been involved – by what the Stortinget pointed to before Christmas. I expect it to come into place, and I expect that the Council of State will also come into its article. With regard to the proposal of the Progress Party, it is only an amended estimate. It doesn't have as much to say when the law is like it is. The amount that the state spends will be the amount that it will be, so it's already inside. But I would very much like to see one have increased the level of compensation, but unfortunately, the size has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1850	I have great respect for the fact that the Storting has concluded its debate on the power package and will not go up the big discussions again, but I would like to comment briefly on the proposals. It is important for me to make it clear that with regard to the proposal relating to housing law, joint ventures, equity apartments and other households that have electricity meters registered as an industrial activity — among others. agriculture, which came directly into the scheme – it is protected in the legislative proposal that was addressed by the Stortinget directly before Christmas, for the months of December, January, February and March. It was solved by being authorized to change the regulations, which means that once we have solved the technical problems, payment will be made to those housing laws, so that they will also be compensated at the same level as the rest of the power package. So it's taken care of, it's working on it, and of course we have to deliver on it. With regard to the proposal relating to reinforcement, I'm essentially just repeating what I've said before, among other things. in the media, that we assess and closely monitor the situation, and we understand that it is demanding. At the same time, I would like to point out that soon the January bill will come, which I know will be demanding for many, but there will also be a relatively large compensation amount. Even yesterday I, who has a house in Bergen, received a message from my online company that the level of compensation there is well 73 ø/kWh. I would also like to remind you that the Stortinget has adopted a system that has not been seen to be unbureaucratic in nature, and we are solving the technical challenges. But it is simply a matter of the fact that the food code on the meters is so wide that we have to pick out the housing laws, the communities and the equity apartments, and then RME has to do it manually. It's coming, and of course we deliver on Storting's decision and order.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1860	The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1865	Lars Haltbrecken believed that this was a unanimous law decision from Stortinget in December, and that is technically correct, but political error. There were several parties that had divergent legislative proposals, and then, after our proposals had fallen, we naturally voted for what was next best. But highlighting that there was a unanimous decision when there were divergent proposals is wrong. The progress party suggested in December that we should have a compensation rate of 75 pst., not 50, or 55, and that it should be for a total of more than 50 ores per kWh instead of 70 ores per kWh – which SV accepted, unfortunately. I think SV had actually got better counting for their primary views along with, among other things. The party of progress than the parties of government. It wasn't until 17 December, in reality, that we have had some reactions among the Norwegian people, and there has been no fantastic embrace of this compensation scheme among people. Now we'll see next week, when most people get their electricity bill for December, if there's a general cheering noise over the big compensation from the government parties and the SV, or if, as I think, there's a significant disappointment about how much higher the bill consumers themselves have to pay has actually become. That's when we get the reactions. That's also why we today tried to improve the system, as we now see and read in the newspapers about the huge revenues that the state and the public in terms of municipalities and county councils get as a result of the result of the sky-high electricity prices, and how little that actually gives back to the population, as Frank Sve has stressed several times. So then we'll see next week, and then is that it's a general enthusiasm, I'm going to say that I was wrong, and that's fine. But if that's how I think it's going to be a lot of next week that gets really disappointed at how small the compensation is, then it might be time for people other than the Advance Party to be prepared to improve the scheme. We were set to do so from January on, which is due to be paid in February, so that you could get at least a comfort when you open your bills next week, that it will be better in the next month. I am disappointed that all other parties would not take advantage of the opportunity to improve the scheme already today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1880	I will deal with what the Committee has agreed, that we should not have a political debate on the electricity support system now, but I would like to make it clear once again: with regard to the proposals from the Red, both proposal No. 3 and No 4, as they exist, the representative proposed that they be forwarded. I assume that it might have been sent to the government without any processing of the facts, or what was the starting point. What has already been adopted, which is stated in a majority opinion, and which the government follows up – it is important to clarify, so that there is no doubt about it – is that we said that housing law, joint and share apartments are established as soon as possible by the end of January 2022. January 2022 is not over yet. That we did not receive the refund on the bill that is now coming, we agreed when we dealt with the matter in December. But I stress that the remark from the government parties and the majority applies. The device shall be ready by the end of January and, for the others, by the first quarter. We wrote that very clearly in the comment at that time. We were aware of the situation, that it had some technical challenges that had to be solved more manually than one could do for ordinary households. With that in mind, I would like to stress that those living in housing law too will receive support similar to that received by other households.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1887	I note that the previous speaker did not want a debate. I think the power pack is important. It's actually about everyday life for people out there. The electricity price for November 2020 was 6,24 øre. In November 2021 it was 132,91 cents. Then I hear the council boasting that you get back 73 cents. Yes, but then you have to assume what the price is, and too many people are going to be hit hard. I very much agree with Carl I. Hagen, who was standing here on the platform: I don't think there's going to be a hallelujah out there with the Norwegian people when you see the consequences of the arrangement that the government has now put up with. I heard the representative Haltbrecken talk about the importance of the good package, and I also stood in the hiking hall and listened when they presented it and said how good this was. So we know that SV wanted to increase the electricity charge again – as the government suggested a small cut, only three to four weeks before this went through. It's good that those who have housing support, and those who have social support, get help, but there are very, very many others in this country who go to work every day, who might make 400,000–500,000 kroner, who with the power package the government has come with, are going to be very worried about how they're going to manage this. I get messages coming from ordinary people who have a normal, normal industrial worker income, who are very concerned about how to pay their electricity bill in the next few months. I take that seriously, but I record that the prime minister, according to the VG, believed that the important parameter for knowing how it was and how people experienced this was the depositors of the Workers' Party. It was about tipping, vulnerable groups, those who lost their jobs, and not least about power prices. I probably don't feel that the employees' representatives are representative of how ordinary people out there experience this package, and how it's going to turn out to ordinary people. I have been contacted by someone who has sick children, who because of the need to use power for the sake of their children in order for them to have a living everyday life, risks having a power bill of perhaps over NOK 100,000 per year. It's violent, it means something, and I hope there's going to be a better order. It was a pity that the proposal of the Progress Party was not possible to debate and vote, because it would mean something to ordinary people out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1898	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1917	Train provision on the most trafficked lines in Norway has improved in the last decade. During the previous government, rail investments were doubled and the number of passengers increased sharply. The last few years of railway development and the repair of bottlenecks have made it possible for several trains on the lines and given several possibilities to take the train and leave the car standing. The left has been at the forefront of railway policy. New railway projects are under construction and many are planned to ensure that even more people can get a better train offer. However, there are now several points that indicate that the development is slowing down and completely central railway plans are being postponed. I am now wondering what the Minister for Transport will do to get ahead of the work that is now about to stop. I'm talking about the NTP project New Route Model in Eastern Europe, also known as Route Model 2027. Planning of this project started during a former Workers' Party administration, and the aim was to obtain multiple train departures on the most busy routes, in particular on the Central East. The project Route model 2027 was established in 2012. It's now ten years ago. The Ministry of Transport asked the Railway Agency to plan a more optimal train service based on transport needs, i.e.: that the needs of travellers should only be met when planning future timetables. Secondly, we looked at the constructions that should be carried out, and what bottlenecks needed to be repaired in order to get to the new train offer. The railway system started to analyse where several train departures were needed and what improvements had to be made on the network to improve the timetable. The result was, among other things: New route model in Eastern Europe, which is now one of the most important railway projects in the national transport plan. It consists of a set of smaller extensions that will provide almost 100 more daily departures in Oslo and Viken, most of them at overloaded local train stations within Ski, Asker and Lillestrøm. The project will also give several run-offs on the longer distances. The need for the project is great. Only Holmlia station on the Eastfold Railway in Oslo has more travelers daily than Bergen and Trondheim stations combined. For many years it has been such that passengers are rejected on the Eastfold Railway because the trains are full. Holmlia is not the only local station with large trunks of daily travellers. The need for multiple take-offs on the routes between Viken and Oslo is great. We who have been involved in working for a better train offer have for many years been looking at this milestone, i.e. Route model 2027. Improvements are outlined in train provision in metropolitan areas, and for the east, the project in the current National Transport Plan has the name New route model for the east. According to the mention of this NTP project, the construction of multiple tracks in Brynsbakken in Oslo is a crucial prerequisite for the realisation of the new route model. It's the biggest bottleneck. The project Brynsbakken was actually supposed to start up this year and is costing 2 billion. kr. It is funded by an agreement between the Directorate of Railways and Bane NOR. The Municipality of Oslo adopted a regulatory plan for the project in the spring of 2021, within the time limit Bane NOR has required. It was a bad process, because many households in the Brynsbakken were hit hard, and houses must be demolished. However, the Municipality of Oslo submitted a decision on the regulatory plan for the project. It was therefore surprising when Bane NOR late harvest announced to the Municipality of Oslo that the project would be postponed for five years. The national transport plan refers to the project as follows: ‘The locomotives from Ski, Lillestrøm and Asker, respectively, into Oslo S, will be able to range from fifteen to ten minutes. Skiing will also be part of the ten-minute system for regional trains. Furthermore, several rush-time flights will be possible to and from Oslo S and the commuter cities Moss, Halden, Tønsberg, Drammen, Eidsvoll and Jessheim." In the Oslopackak 3 action programme, there is also a clear description of the effect of Brynsbakken. Now it seems that Route Model 2027 has been pushed significantly forward in time. Rehabilitation of the Brynsbakken bottleneck is among the main handles for a new multi-departure schedule. Extension to multiple tracks should have started in 2022, i.e. this year. The consequences are that it is uncertain when, in the future, there may be a 10-minute frequency of localogenicity, multiple drug withdrawals on many routes, and better space for multiple long-distance trains. The browsing tray plan can add up to approx. 100 extra daily departures, most in local traffic between Viken and Oslo, where the need is greatest. Even with the completion of the Folloban, there does not seem to be any more departures in the rush time on the Eastfold Railway, because the Brynsbaken bottleneck is not repaired. Then my question about the state council accepts the postponement that Bane NOR has now announced. Is it really necessary to postpone such an important project for five years? That it takes a few months to postpone or a year to have the regulatory plan verified, you might think you're okay, but five years is a lot. When does the Council of State think that the new train offer Routemodel 2027 could be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1946	The railway appropriations – as the representative of Elvesuen quite rightly said – have had a formidable increase, and they are built as never before. In 2022, it was granted 31.8 billion. kr for railway purposes. Double tracks are now being built for Tønsberg, Moss and Hamar. The improvement of Ulriken tunnel and measures on the Arna-Fløen will allow the frequency of urban passenger traffic to be doubled to four departures per hour. Measures at the Nygårdstangen freight terminal will provide 50 pst. more capacity and Bergen is given a modernised, efficient and emission-free freight terminal. Measures at Narvik station and Narvik terminal will provide more efficient freight transport in North Norway. In other words, it's true that there's a lot of positive happening in the railway area. The new route model for Eastern Europe is another example of this, and I fully agree with the representative that the impact package will be central to providing a better train offer to many travellers in Eastern Europe. The railway sector has already worked for several years to get it in place. The measures included in the new route model resolve bottlenecks in the Eastern system and provide for improvements in supply and better use of the rail network. The power package allows for a train offer that makes maximum use of the Oslo-Navet network until new railway tunnel through Oslo is realised. This is particularly important since Oslo is the hub of Railway Norway and we sometimes have major capacity challenges on several key parts of the network. The completion of a new route model for Eastern Europe is expected to be around 2030 in a new national transport plan for the period 2022–2033. The broom tray will be completed, even with a recent delay, within this period. In other words, the exposure of the project Directions Brynsbakken will not delay the new route model for Eastern Europe and its impact. Although Brynsbakken is an important regional project, here we have to take into account an even more important national project, and that is the development of the ERTMS signalling system. We're going to replace the many and old signalling systems on Norwegian rail with a common national system. The signalling system shall be moved from lamps and signs along the train rails and into trains. We will have a better and more operationally secure system that will reduce delays and improve the use of capacity in the rail network. The new signalling system will mainly be completed in 2032. The cost framework is 31 billion. kr, and thus the project is Norway's largest ICT project. ERTMS will be deployed step by step across the country and will be used according to plans on parts of Gjøvikbanen and Nordlandsbanen in October and November. ERTMS is a project with many dependencies and it is not without reason that the deployment of ERTMS entails long freeze periods for the relevant route where no other work can be carried out. A railway project consists of many phases, several contractors and different construction operations. Delay in part of the project could affect the next in development. Building a railway project on a route is thus demanding in itself, but building up a railway project at the same time as building ERTMS on the same route is likely to result in both projects being delayed, increased risk and far more expensive. Now that we are building a new signalling system across the country, it must be given priority over other projects on the same route. That's exactly what happened on Brynsbakken. Track NOR has postponed the project because the final control plan will not be available in time for the project to be completed before the ERTMS will be built on the same route. ERTMS shall be applied to Oslo S in 2026. This will have a significant impact on travellers in the East, including: as a result of better punctuality. It is not possible to postpone the deployment of ERTMS on Oslo S. The risk of delays and increased costs of deploying the Bilge Tray at the same time as ERTMS is installed on the same route will be very high. Now that other projects in the power package of the new route model have been delayed, and the whole route model is thus shifted to 2030, there is also a room for action to expand the Brynsbaken after ERTMS has been implemented on Oslo S. Consequently, it has not been intended to review the decision made by Bane NOR regarding the Brynsbakken.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1963	Thanks for the answer. There is no doubt that ERTMS is an important project for Norwegian railway. I am pleased that the Council of State drew up all the projects in the country that are now under way, because there has been a significant improvement in the Norwegian railway system in recent years and with much more passengers. But I need a little clarification: one thing is that this is delayed due to ERTMS, but at the same time the Council of State says that according to the plans you can get the improvement of the offer and the offer within Route Model 2027 already in 2030 – so a little clarification of how it can be done. Then there's a discussion in Oslo about Brynsbakken, which has been a very controversial matter in itself, also with the solution that was finally adopted, which involves the demolition of people's homes. The question is: if it takes longer and you can achieve an improvement of the offer equivalent to Route Model 2027 in 2030, is there also room to look at a better solution in the Brynsbakken, so that it is longer term? It is quite clear that the discussion about the solution in Brynsbakken is not finished where we are today, and at least not if you do not have the progress in terms of the improvement of the offer that this very controversial measure would give. I understand that there is a postponement on the basis of a regulatory plan. Now Oslo did her job by making decisions within the framework set, but of course you also have a complaint procedure and a complaint period. That right is there, but the fact that you get a postponement that goes all the way to the end of ERTMS in the light of what, after all, is a less delay on a very controversial matter, is something that is difficult to explain.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1976	I can only confirm what I said in my introduction post: that it will be fully possible to carry out the project on the Brynsbakken within the time horizon that will allow us to get up the route offer as described in the power package, by 2030. Then I am aware that this has been a difficult matter in Oslo. I am also aware that, of course, there have been attempts to keep progress in regulatory planning processes, but then there is a complaint case, and it results in a suspensive effect that it cannot actually be done without having other dramatic consequences for the development of Norwegian railways. Then we're talking about ERTMS at Oslo S, which I think we all agree that it will be essential to get in place, and that it will have a great impact on regularity, predictability and on how good service we have on trains in Norway. I assume that Bane NOR has a good dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to find good solutions to the challenges that lie there. Then we get to hope that this control plan is confirmed, so that we have the basis to move forward in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e1985	Thank you to the representative Elvesuen for an important interpellation, and thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I have also read that ERTMS is now the main reason for this postponement. I can say that when I was running a transport policy from 2005 to 2009 here at Stortinget, ERTMS was a major factor that one had to put in place. Now it's finally getting loose. It takes some time, but it's a huge project. That being said, there are probably still some questions here that I would like to challenge the Council of State, because Route Model 2027 can now be implemented in 2030. Then I perceive that things are not quite on the rails, to say it literally; then there are postponements. And what is the 2027 route model for Eastern Europe adding up to? Well, it adds great effects to the local train offer from Ski, Asker and Lillestrøm to Oslo. Then you have this power package – there are very nice words here – with offer improvements for the whole of the Central East, that is, what is called the New Route Model Eastland. Then you will be able to go from 15 minutes to 10-minute intervals for local trains from Ski, Lillestrom and Asker into Oslo. It's so often that it's about like the bus: you don't have to know when to take the train, you just go down to the station, and then it comes. It's a dream for commuters. There will also be rooms for several departures in the rush hour from commuter cities such as Tønsberg, Drammen, Eidsvoll, Jessheim and Moss. The biggest measure here is the change in the Brynsbakken that Elvesuen has brought up quite correctly. It makes it possible to drive eight extra trains an hour into and out of Oslo S from that distance. It's important. That's why I hope that what Bane NOR now says is right – you have to trust it – but it doesn't have such a big impact that all of the route improvements in the East will be postponed for almost ten years. It would not be a good signal to send when we talk about the green shift, green transport etc.: that everything is to stop or be postponed for several years. There are also other things inside this package, including: extension of Sandvika station to six tracks. It's a prerequisite for putting in place the Ringerix track, which is now well-running, at least planning. I feel that if one is now postponing this for five years, we need to get some answers as to whether it has no consequences for other things than that ERTMS comes into place first, and then we get the other things afterwards. I have a feeling – having been in the debate on transport for many years – that you take it, you take it, and you get that postponement, you get that postponement. That is why I do not feel completely reassured by what is now being said. This might be – I hope not – a saving measure, because it's set at $9.8 billion. kr to the new route model east of the next NTP, with 5.6 billion. kr in the first scheduled period and SEK 4,2 billion. kr in the second planned period. At least the right is going to follow very closely the progress of these projects, and I hope that there will still be a broad consensus that improving train provision in Eastern Europe from and to the hub of Oslo S is absolutely crucial. That means something. In the power package there is capacity increase on Brynsbakken, extension to six tracks on Sandvika, flat-line detachment to the eastern line of Østfoldbahnen and train parking south of Ski. In addition, smaller measures such as waiting tracks and station development of Grorud, turning tracks at Asker and security zone and new Lillestrøm track changers will be added. I hope that these projects go on, that one continues the plan, and that one continues to keep up the pace, and that the introduction of ERTMS does not now become enough sleep cushions to put a severe impact on the East, for that is what we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2004	Route model 2027 is referred to by Bane NOR as a train revolution which is intended to provide significant additional take-offs on the rail in the central eastern region. The most important project in the package to increase the number of take-offs is the conversion of Brynsbakken, and that is the rail tracks east from Oslo S and towards Bryn. To say that this has been a difficult matter, as the Council of State did, is mildly said to understate. I myself sat in the city council when we dealt with the matter, and this has been one of the very, the most incriminating issues in Oslo policy for a long time. It is that the conversion involves major interventions in existing urban areas, including the demolition or relocation of conservation dwellings on the ‘Hyla’ at Vålerenga. The case has been a heavy burden on residents and neighbors, who live in uncertainty about what is going to happen to their neighbourhood. Bane NOR put a great pressure on the Municipality of Oslo last year to urgently deal with the case of Brynsbakken to ensure the progress of the project, if not Bane NOR thought that the threat was that a new route offer with multiple train departures would be postponed for several years. This was also the background to the fact that the City Council in Oslo, together with individual representatives in Red and the whole of the Left Group, secured a majority in favour of the case when it was being discussed in the City Council last spring. Now, when Bane NOR announces that they will still postpone the project for several years, this is an unacceptable turnaround. It has a significant impact on the daily lives of about one million train travellers in the Oslo area, as well as the residents and neighbours directly affected by the development, who now have to live with uncertainty for even longer. The postponement is also critical in order to ensure the eastern part of the region an essential increase in the supply that facilitates collective housing in the neighbourhoods of Oslo and that prevents further pressure on the road network and more cars. Now that we have invested tens of billions of dollars in the development of the railway around Oslo over a number of years, the matter is only becoming even more absurd. The Greens believe that Bane NOR has kept Oslo municipality, the inhabitants of Oslo and the train travellers in the East for fools. The municipality of Oslo has gone a long way to deal with the matter, following strong pressure from Bane NOR. We now expect the postponement of the project to be reversed, and that the Minister of Transport will instruct Bane NOR as soon as possible to take up the project, in line with what was planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2017	It is good that both the Minister and the representative Elvesuen are engaged in improving the train offer in and out of Oslo. So is Red. It means something to tens of thousands of commuters, it means something to the climate. Thousands of dwellings are also to be built along the lines of the coming years, and they depend on the train. For Red train development is important – we are for trains. But we also have to admit that the medal has a backside. City of Old Oslo is one of the most densely populated areas in the country. There are many town yards, blocks and old wooden houses close on the railway. The route from Bryn to Oslo Centre is one of the most busy routes in the country. At almost every hour of the day, the fighting train goes right past the windows to people. Everything now can drive more than 400 trains here on weekdays, and the development will provide between 100 and 200 extra passenger trains every day, plus that there will be more freight trains. Path NOR will tear down a very small neighborhood to extend the rail tracks in Brynsbakken. A dozen families and people lose their homes on what's called Holla. Then Vålerenga loses a school circle with many small apartments, important family homes, and the capital loses more of its oldest inhabited homes. The City Council in Oslo said yes to this plan, but they also asked that Bane NOR investigate the possibility of giving something back to the strike, to the city and to the city. They wanted a larger lid over several of the tracks. The same thing has been asked for by the city district and a community as a whole. Then you're going to let go of even more space than today being tied up by the railway, with high fences and noise shields all around. Schoolchildren will have a much larger park to play in. It might also cause less noise. In the fall, a few weeks after the election, a preliminary investigation was ready. Such a lid is fully capable of being built, says the report, it is not even very expensive or demanding in railway terms, but Bane NOR is opposed. They have themselves stated in the media that the desire to save money is a main explanation that they will not build such a lid. If something should happen, it requires the government to act. If the government supports its party traps and the rest of the city government in Oslo, it will soon have to show it in practice. The suspension to Bane NOR has given a great new opportunity. Now you have time to plan lids, maybe you also have time to find a better solution, which also takes better care of the protective houses. Then the real question to the government is, will you want to seize this opportunity, or not? The minister has a great commitment to the train commuters, that's good, and I hope he has an equal commitment to go further with the flight plans on the east side of Oslo. Ordinary people deserve more train departures, but ordinary people also deserve a better community environment. It's also true on the east edge of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2030	First, I would like to thank you for the debate and for all those who have participated. I think I still have some questions about this, because there is no doubt that the postponement came surprisingly, at least on me, and it came surprisingly also locally. Now it is important to keep the pressure on getting an improvement in the offer, which has been there for many years – it has to continue. Route model 2027 is the one we've been looking forward to all the way, once we've driven the project, at least from Oslo and the Oslo region. I think you still have to look at whether it is possible to get this before 2030, and also whether there are other improvements to offer, not only in the central parts of the network, but in the external parts – like this with half-hour routes to Hokksund, or towards Fredrikstad and other parts of the external network. Now there's a improvement on Gjøvikbanen, but this also has great significance across the whole eastern region. So it's probably a fact, and I think the Council of State and everyone who's planning here, just have to take over, that with this postponement Oslo is going to look for better solutions for the Brynsbaken than the one that was now adopted. If it's possible to get something there that makes it better, both for current residents and for the region, I think that's something we also need to look at as an opportunity, both to get the offer, and also to make it better for the local environment. You'll quickly end up with that being physically possible, but that's a cost that comes with it. Then, at least from the left, we will follow up the possible cost, whether that is the one we need to click on to make the best offer possible. This must be an offer that builds up during the railway operation as climate action, but as much as industry, and that it makes it much easier for people most to move around in the eastern region. I have always said that you have to remember that those who walk, ride bicycles, drive a car or take the train or other public transport are the same people, and then the total offer must be there, while the solutions individually must be good enough. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the debate, and at least we will keep the pressure on this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2041	I would like to thank you for an interesting debate on important issues. Let me start by saying that I have no difficulty understanding that it's a disappointment, especially when in Oslo and the Municipality of Oslo, that this is going to be a postponement. At the same time, Bane NOR has been fully aware that the final control plan must be in place in order to complete the Brynsbaken before the construction of a new signalling system, that it must be in place at an early enough time. It has always been said that this could be a challenge if the type of situation that arose here, namely that we have now received complaints about the decision and its suspensive effect, and that meant that the project had to be postponed. You realize that it's not ideal, that it's not desirable in the first place. As far as urban development is concerned, I assume that Bane NOR and the Municipality of Oslo have a good process of further planning of the project. The size will then decide on the scope and start of the project when the proposal for a cost framework is submitted to the Stortinget. I am concerned that the railway project will contribute to good urban development when it is developed into urban areas. It is natural that Bane NOR contributes to the development of other measures that have to be included at the same time as investments in the railway sector, but this is where we have to find a balance point, a proportionality, because we can't accept that we are getting expensive elements in the projects either. It must at least be within reasonable limits. So I think it's good to remember that the year 2030 originated from the Solberg government's proposal for NTP. This was pushed from the beginning of 2026, and it was because it was not economically possible to prioritize the entire power package early in the planning period. So there is no new event that has arisen here and now, and there is no other measure in this impact package that is exposed, formally, at this time. I understand that this creates uncertainty for the people involved. Course NOR goes on with the work on redemption, of course. Hopefully, the regulatory plan will be approved gradually, thus gradually creating greater and greater certainty for those involved in this process. Unfortunately, this is the case with many transport projects, which affect many. It affects the big community and all those who are going to use the offer, but also the people who are being affected when new investments are being made. I think we all have known that from our political roles over the years, that there are also difficult processes, but sometimes we also need to succeed in the big project, which is to get better rail services for the whole of the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2054	The interpellant debate is therefore closed. Case No. 9 and 10 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2084	The President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2091	Why do we have measures that make so much intervention in people's lives? It's about a pandemic that chooses not to be done with us, even though we would all like to be done. The role of the government is to respond quickly, follow and act as necessary. In September we celebrated with joy reopening and finally a little more freedom, but before Christmas we also had the biggest outbreak of the new variant here in Norway, and again the goal was to limit contact between people. The impact over time is great, for industries, for jobs and for children and young people. It is alarming numbers for eating disorders – an increase. There are solitude, consequences for mental health and for health professionals in both municipalities and hospitals, and the differences between people are increasing. We all know someone who works in these industries, among other things. a very hard hit serving and outdoor food. We know these people, there are real people who take infection seriously. That is not what this is about, that you do not have an understanding of an industry. It's about taking the pandemic seriously. For the government it is particularly important to provide jobs and to help businesses to cope through these weeks as well. Therefore, action and compensation must go hand in hand. They do that with this government. Financial measures have been introduced, wage support. There will also be extra support for hospitals. That people are tired, that there is action fatigue, and that one is tired, is fully understandable. The questioning and discussion is also fully understandable and completely natural in a democracy. But someone has to make these demanding assessments. They have to be balanced, and it has to be the professional advice that underlies, even when it's difficult and we're tired, because the goal has to be to have control and know what to control, that there's a balance, that we have control of our health care system. Then, of course, it has to be measured against what is proportionate, and it has to be in line with the infectious disease law. That's the government's responsibility. But there's a whole here we can't ignore, and the measures put in place are based on professionally reasoned advice given to the government. It was introduced first at 24 o'clock, but one saw that one had to tighten further. So we've tried, because there's been a lot of will in this room to look at different ways of doing it. We've tried, last year, to make assessments of whether you can distinguish between food serving and bar. It didn't work so well, we have to admit that, also we who were into it because we wanted it so deeply. It is not possible to distinguish between restaurants with Michelin stars and outdoor areas serving ‘green’. So someone says, "Well, is there such a difference between a glass of wine and a Pepsi Max?" The difference is that the more glass of wine you take, the smaller the meter. I don't think the same thing happens no matter how many Pepsi Max bottles you drink. If there's one thing you shouldn't do, it's starting to rationalize how much people get to drink. The world situation, including Norway, is serious. We see it when the infection numbers go from 3,000 a day to 8 000 a day in a very short time. We have to have control. Pretty soon, next week, the government comes with new assessments. Then to the proposals that lie ahead. Firstly, both proposals are like opening doors. The government is complying with the infectious diseases law. It is always necessary to assess the proportionality of the measures introduced and to provide the necessary information. It's public. That is why we are not going to support the proposals that are being put forward. But if there's one thing that's certain, it's that since it's proper, we're not going to wait one day longer than necessary to open up. No one wants more stringent measures than necessary, but we need to have control and ensure that the health care system also has control.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2116	I guess I have a certain feeling that I've been here before and discussed the exact same thing. Fortunately, we're in a slightly different situation than we were a year ago. We're in a situation where even though the infection rates are high, very many are vaccinated, very many have received a third dose, and very many parts of our society can work well. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the burden we have in both the first line in the municipalities and hospitals is so great, not least because of how long this has been going on, that it is necessary to have proper infection protection measures that help us to have control. Nor is it difficult to understand how hopeless and difficult this is for an industry that has had to take most of the intervention. On Tuesday I met a number of businessmen in travel and restaurant activities in Bergen. Clearly, hopelessness is great. What they want most of all is predictability in the future, predictability of compensation schemes, flexible and good schemes, but also predictability of when it is safe enough to start up – too up and down are very demanding in a short time. There is no reason not to say that it could be right to lift the tipping roof for the sake of the industry and lift the ban on giving, but that is not the reason why we have to work with these matters. It's an infection we have to relate to. We have a range of measures we can use, and the choice of measures in that fan has given the government responsibility to manage. That is why this case for us in the Right is not about the question of which infection protection measures are correct, but about who is going to take the decisions. We believe that it is the responsibility and duty of the government to ensure and handle this. We meant that in January last year, and we believe that in January this year, no matter what position we are in. It is the case that we from Stortinget, at the latest in the revision of the IPD Act in 2019, have entrusted the government with the responsibility of seeing the whole of this. Then we have to trust that the government actually makes the right assessments, and not assume responsibility without any particular basis other than what has been publicly expressed by the government, in order to make other choices. That's why we're essentially saying that it's absolutely essential for us not to go in and pick what kind of infection protection measures are chosen. Although there are several other options available in the fan, we agree with the objective: that we have to bring down the meeting places between people, we have to make sure that people are able to hold the meter, we have to make sure that the infection protection is there. But it is the government's responsibility and duty to make sure that the right choices are made in this context. Defining infectious disease control measures is demanding and it is the sum of the measures that are important. It is therefore also difficult to talk about each action regardless of what the options should be. That whole thing we have professional authorities to advise on, and we have a government to decide the decisions about it. Several proposals have been put forward, and we are going to vote against from a principle point of view relating to the relationship between government and the Stortinget. Several other proposals have also been made on this matter. Most of the proposals have implied that the government does not comply with the law on infectious diseases adopted by the Stortinget. I don't have any reason to say that it doesn't. So we are going to vote against the proposals that have been put forward, given that we believe we must expect the government to follow the rules. If they do not comply with the rules laid down in the Code, then it is a matter for the Committee of Inquiry and others to assess whether it has been done correctly. But there's one area where I'll be allowed to give a recommendation to the government. This is because from 21 January last year we started to publish our reasons on the government.no for all kinds of invasive infection protection measures based on the discussion that had been about this. It seems to have missed for the government. There are no updates or publications on the government.no on the reasons for this since 28 April. That means that the tightening decisions that have been taken are not justified in the same way. I would recommend the government to go back to that practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2133	Pandemic developments have been and are challenging for many – since in the fall, Norway was explained that one could live normally, to now, where one had to reintroduce deep intervention in society in December to reduce infection rates and not least the number of hospital admissions. New virus variants give us new challenge image that needs to be managed. Health authorities still do not have a good enough overview of what omicron will give of long-term effects, especially for the care of hospitalisation and intensive treatment. In mid-December, no one in this room asked questions or made criticisms about new, alert measures from the government. On the contrary – there was a broad deal about the introduction and the seriousness. Of course, it is not a desired situation, and one acknowledges that the measures have been particularly demanding for the restaurant and catering industry, which has had it tough for a long time. As a result, several of the measures followed by the government have recently been taken, such as: wage support schemes and municipal compensation schemes, were important and proper remedial measures against the industry. 8,385 – this figure is the number of positive infections in the country last day. It has never been recorded the corresponding number before for any time of the pandemic. At the same time, there will be a series of news updates from around the world, which refer to large and sometimes extreme escalations of infection and hospitalisation. Many societies are now totally or partially decoupled, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The Netherlands and Canada. Norway was relatively early to adopt a new strategy and new measures in mid-December compared to other European and Nordic countries. This has helped to dampen the pressure in health services. We know that the combination of infectious diseases and alcohol is not a good formula. The responsibility that hangs on each of us is great. Invitations to social contacts must be limited to better and more overarching control. Therefore, the Storting should not enter into a single element of a comprehensive package of disease protection measures, with the experience of Stortinget from the past. The authorities in the municipalities have communicated to me and report a large and significant deviation in the follow-up to infectious diseases when one accumulates and consumes alcohol. Many activities have been good enough to accommodate distances and limits in numbers, but a few of us are good enough to take good care of when one gathers around a table in social layers. It is therefore quite wrong at this stage to decide on changes in the measures taken to prevent infection by means of these representative proposals, and at least before new health assessments have been submitted by the FHI and the Health Directorate. The government has early informed them that they will provide a new update in just over a week. Until then, we, like the most populous peoples, must support and not build up the seriousness of the actual situation in the country and world society. The size shall last for all parts of society and regulated business. The government has been assigned images to make sound and proportionate assessments. They also know the many recordings and the critical situation of the restaurant and catering industries. I'm overconfident that this will be a recording that the government will include in its further work on up-to-date measures. Let's keep thinking about prevention where life and health are at the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2156	We've been in a pandemic for two years, and our health care system has had that bone problem, and many other groups in society as well. It's been tough, and it's been hard, and many have stretched a lot, much longer than we can expect, to make sure society works the way it should. But there are also some groups, such as the restaurant industry, which have been hit hard by the restrictions imposed. Many of them have been shut down both nine and maybe all the way up to ten months. It's clear that there are consequences, and there are many, many thousands of employees who are now uncertain whether they actually get back to work, and whether the company is actually there. It's also business owners who are frustrated and uncertain about whether they're going to survive, and we've seen a number of bankruptcies. It's serious. There has been broad agreement on the measures that have been taken and on what the competent authorities have done, but I also think that the Storting should note that the conclusions that the professional authorities are now making are no longer as clear and clear, for example. This thing with restaurants. I have registered that both Nakstad, FHI and others are more unclear as to whether this measure is such a good measure than what I feel the Council of State is. I hear now that an Labour Party representative is standing here and says that the Labour Party is concerned that you should not have this longer than is strictly necessary, but I have met in a debate with the State Secretary and registered that the Council of State says that nothing happens before 14 January, even if you say that you are following developments every day, or continuously. Then you've really decided, and you did that a month ago, and that's what makes us take this discussion back in the Storting. I think it is sad that the Right chooses to just follow and not take a decision on the new things that have emerged, which I believe have come well in the last few weeks. I have also recorded that FHI has for a long time said that it has been moderate, whether it has been thought that these effects have been as the Council of State and the political majority say and claim here, but that they changed before the last closure. Then it doesn't look very good when one week says you drive on, arrange a Christmas table, don't cancel – and then you go for a week, and then you shut down. Then it's also good to have some facts. The mayor of Bergen had a smoking fresh investigation, a report, which shows that for the last year as a whole there was 24.4 pst. which was infected in their own household. That was 4.6 pst. which was infected abroad, 4.8 pst. were high school students, and 4.7 pst. were infected at work, while 1.5 pst. the infected were infected at a bar or outdoor site and only 0,5 pst. were infected during a restaurant visit. It shows that there is a need to take this debate. So it is especially to record that both SV and Left were tall and dark and went out like a lion and fell down like a skin trap. They now come up with a proposal that doesn't mean anything to the world, other than that the Council of State will continue to do what she has done, that is, to evaluate. She has said that she will assess it, but she will not do anything until 14 January and now sends out signals that you can still risk it taking even longer. But the Progress Party will support the proposals. The only thing is this going to be transparent, knowing what assessments have been made. There I have also sent a question to the Council of State, just to challenge the publication of this information, about the legal considerations. Because when we are going to take action, it is necessary to be sure that it is the right measures and to make sure that this is the action that should or should not be taken. We agree that we are in a pandemic. The Progress Party has largely supported the measures that have been taken, but it is now about raising doubts as to whether this action is the right and the most important. So we have an industry that I started with, which is in a very difficult situation, and many, many thousands of employees are at risk of losing their jobs and never getting their jobs back, and many see that their life's work is about to go down. So I hope that the parties that are in this room actually evaluate the publishers of the Progress Party and support it, to cancel this. It still means that there should be local differences, and it should be up to local authorities, municipalities, to assess what measures should be taken in relation to the reduction of turnout time, etc., and, if appropriate, not at all. And I'm going to take up the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2177	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2182	Regrettably, it is not surprising that the Right will not require ongoing review of intervention measures or that public opinion and enlargement should have access to the basis for decisions. Especially the last one is a little special, because we heard that former prime minister in the post just came up with a tip, a advice, to the government to publish it. Why couldn't the Right then support that proposal? But we're thinking about how it was under the right-hand government's management of the pandemic. They had to be pressured to publicise foundations; they denied the Storting influence and control of intervention. SV has now proposed it for several rounds, we have a proposal within the scope of the Stortinget now. And not least, the health care situation — low staffing, the poorest in Europe on intensive capacity per 100,000 inhabitants — is an inheritance that has made handling even more difficult and also dimensioning measures today. It is clear that there is a health service situation that increases the need for intervention. That's this trap we're warning the Big Government against going in. We must never forget how serious intervention is, how serious it is for people, for adding, for businesses and for welfare. When an intervention which may have a significant impact on people’s lives is adopted by the IPR, the decision must be based on clear professional foundations and there must be a correlation between the impact of the action and the impact of the infection. The law requires solid foundations as they are written, and they should be made on an ongoing basis. There may be many good reasons for either suspending or reinforcing actions in the process beyond the set dates you have seen, and so this has happened. But all the time the Storting – and for the sake of public opinion – does not know what the basis for these measures is, the Storting is seen in a very difficult situation. It's going to be very difficult to vote to cancel a simple decision. SV is therefore not going to support the proposal to abolish national bulwarks. However, we would like to make it clear that intervention should be considered on an ongoing basis, not monthly. In order to justify the interrelationship between measures and effects, the Code on Infectiveness does not open up, interventional measures must be assessed on an ongoing basis. The size has given the powers – quite correctly – to intervention in the pandemic, but then we also have a duty to check that decisions are proper and that they are compatible. If we are to be able to carry out our duty, we require transparency. We should also be able to demand from the government that they comply with the law that has always been adopted by the Stortinget, and – as SV has proposed, and which is now under consideration in this room – we should be able to review proposals. So our proposal is that assessments should be carried out on an ongoing basis. This means making rapid assessments of all decisions, including national referrals. Then we support the proposal from the Left. We think it's quite obvious that the basics have to be made public, so that both publicity and greatness can be able to drive control. Because it's not like that, and it can never be like that, for everyone who believes in democracy, that there can be a small group of people who know best what is best. No one knows what's best. The experts don't know it, the bureaucrats don't know it, politicians don't know it, people don't know it -- nobody knows it. But it's when one makes this public, that we get a big public debate, that we can come up with the very best decisions. In the light of history, I believe that the assessment of Stortinget's control of invasive disease protection measures will have a hard impact. The size of the housing has not adequately checked that the interventional measures have been built on proper grounds and have been properly controlled. But we still have the possibility to do something about it, and with that, I'm making the proposal to SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2197	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2202	Throughout the pandemic, Red has been concerned that infectious diseases measures must be met more clearly and better with financial compensation, so that there are no workers who have to pay the highest price. However, changing governments are unable to deliver compensatory measures that are good enough. People who already have lower wages than the average are repeatedly permitted. It's not just the economy, it's also the mental health that's affected by it. People who work in the food industry also need the government to set up quickly and clearly for them. When that doesn't happen, we understand that frustration is increasing. In Red, we have chosen to focus most on increasing hospital capacity, improving working conditions, compensating those who lose their jobs or get laid off, and improving people's mental health and access to help. We have been responsible for the political responsibility for the economic and social consequences of the disease prevention measures. So it is that today we are dealing with a concrete proposal – or two. It is important for us to base the knowledge of health authorities on increased infection in society. In this case, there is uncertainty about the effect. When the tipping suggestion comes first to Stortinget, Red will support a limited opening rather than a full tipping stop. At the same time, it is important for us to mention that it requires good infection protection measures. The outdoor industry already has experience with measures such as distance and table service, we have had several rounds of shorter opening times, regulated sound levels, etc. A recent report from the FHI shows that there is no distinction between the municipalities that have had a full tip and those that have had restrictions on giving. It is then difficult for us to defend measures that are a huge burden on an industry that has already had to bear heavy burdens over these two years. Today Red is going to vote for both of them solving the proposals, from SV and from the Left. We will also support the proposals No. 1 and No 3 in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We are going to vote against the proposal that it should only be linked to food serving. Last year's experience suggests that just that didn't work out so well. So today we are voting in favour of these proposals. In the future, I expect from the government that we can have more transparency about the evaluation of the measures, as well as research into actions and an overview of the burden of action. After over two years of pandemic, we really just didn't have to learn this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2216	This matter raises two questions. The one is the principle around the relationship between collapse and government, and the other is the actual around the infection prevention tip. When it comes to the principle, about the relationship between accumulation and government, I and Left some of the representatives of Solberg made clear in their statement, namely that once the Storting has delegated authority to the government, with good reason, in this case in order to balance the protection measures against each other, that authority should be to the very government. It's not unique for this case, it's a lot of authority and a lot of authority given to the government, where in itself I and the Left Party can have strong opinions, but where we still think the government should make the decision. This applies, for example: complaints against the wolf just before Christmas or a much awaited appointment of the governor, and some other issues where there is a lot of political debate, where I have a strong view, but where I believe that the Storting should not make decisions and make individual decisions. Therefore, the Left will not support the various proposals from the Progress Party and the Green Party today. When it comes to the actual, simply the discussion about the tipping-off as infectious measures, I have allowed myself publicly, and so do I here, to say something about it, because when we see the developments that have been since before Christmas, the question we all have to ask ourselves, whether this is a proper measure, whether it is a proportionate intervention in the lives of people and for business, in the light of the situation we are in. I fully understand that there was very great uncertainty before Christmas. The government had to act quickly; one could not wait for the municipalities to take the decisions, one had to have national measures. Then we knew a little. Now we know more. The vast majority of people who have come from information about the omicron variant, at least with which I've been made familiar, have gone in a positive and not a negative direction. That's good. The vaccines will be rolled out. I myself shall take the third vaccine dose after the meeting today, given that the meeting did not go too far in time. I can tell that I'm not among the most at risk in this society. I am very pleased with this, but it also says something about how far the vaccination has come. That's good, it makes us more resilient. Having national tipping in all municipalities, for everyone, without room for local variation, is a very interventional measure, and I must say that I am very doubtful as to whether it is proportionate in the situation we are currently in. Therefore, I would encourage the government and the Council of State not to allow the matter to be re-examined, but when a new assessment is to be made on 14 January, to give the municipalities the authority that they have been able to handle when it comes to giving rules throughout the pandemic. Then there's a proposal that I've seen myself, and that's what I hope the Storting will support. The representative of Solberg said in his speech that many of the proposals, and I interpret it so that it also applied to my proposal, are an indirect mistrust that the government does not comply with the infectious diseases laws. I want to underline that it is not. But what's important about my proposal is that when the government makes these assessments of proportionality, one should make them public. The Solberg government did that routinely, wisely – it hasn't been done, it hasn't been updated with the new government, at least not as I've got with me. That's what the new government should do. There is, to a large extent, a question The Storting should engage in, that one obtains the information on proportionality assessments carried out by the government under the infectious diseases law. I hope that the Stortinget, and also the Right Party, will support the proposal I have made in that context. I take up that proposal, and then I have notified that the Left will also support the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2235	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2240	The outdoor industry is one of the glues in our society. For many, it's the most important social arena they have. It employed 70,000 people in the food industry in 2019. By 2020 it was 60,000. Many more jobs are now at risk of disappearing permanently. That is why the MDG asked before Christmas that full tipping was replaced with more flexible solutions. We know a lot about what works against infection – distance, fewer close contacts, hand washing, mouthbands and of course vaccine. That two people can sit around a table with distance and drink Pepsi Max, but not drink beer or wine, is not on the list of measures we know works. Full tipping affects thousands of low-paid people and an entire nationwide industry. That makes our communities a little bit poorer. Lifting the national tip does not mean full release. A solution may be to leave responsibility to the municipalities, as the NHO Travel Life has been called for, or to stop from a given time in the evening to a given time in the evening and only to serve the table. So I want to remind you: Pole is open, REMA 1000 still sells beer. If the reason for the tipping is alcohol that leads to infection, most people are perfectly able to drink at home parties. The protection against infectious diseases is hardly any better there than there are in restaurants and pubs all over the country. Lifting the tip isn't about filling, it's about saving an entire industry. Finally, I would like to say something about the role of Storting. I didn't think it would be necessary, but when our former prime minister has not intended to overrun the government, while a whole industry is about to break its back because of government's infectious measures, I think it's in place: all power is in this room. The size has completely misunderstood its role if we believe our job is to nod until everything the government comes with by infectious measures. Yes, the government is responsible for leading us through the crisis, but Stortinget has a decisive control function. During the coronary apathy, we have a clear and independent responsibility to assess the burden of action against health benefits. MDG's assessment in this case, as I know many in this Chamber share, and as I know many in the population share, is that total national tipping, which is the only country in Europe that has introduced today, has an excessive burden on action. It simply kills an entire industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2253	I have worked longer in Norwegian health care than I have been a politician. In the Norwegian health system, so many patients are occasionally admitted that you do not know how to prioritize. The first priority is to be given. Now it's like we've got a tipping stop. That tipping is not an alcohol policy question for the Christian People's Party, if anyone would believe it. We want the outdoor industry well. This is about an infectious disease prevention measure together with all other measures. I heard reportedly that the Public Health Institute said this week that it was not about individual measures, but about the sum of measures to reduce the infection, and then this was one of the measures in the sum. On a day when we have the biggest infection rates we've ever had, with a mutant virus, which we know is contagious more than last year, and which creates even greater pressure on the Norwegian health care system, it's a paradox for me that, without the best background drug, which I believe the government has, we have to decide this in this room. Before Christmas we sat in this room and talked about specialist nurses and doctors, and we – both the former government and this government – talked about that we had to get the hospitals up to go because there were many patients who were waiting and not having surgery or treatment for what they were supposed to do because it was taken capacity for the pandemic. In this situation, the Christian People's Party chooses to support the government's action with the bulwark, when it's the professional council, because we don't have the other advice that anyone in the room supposedly has. The sum of measures must be taken jointly, and should also include measures for the outdoor sector, precisely in order to achieve the objectives of the pandemic. We know that the best way to target the pandemic is that as much as possible – or I would say – should be vaccinated if they don't have a reason not to. It will help the health care system; it will help the outdoor industry. When you have worked in health care, you also know that information creates security, information creates trust, and information creates understanding. That is why I would like to support the representative of Solberg, who is asking us to get information about the reasons for action, so that people understand, so that we understand, and so that business understands why one has chosen these measures now. I think we have an even tougher one in front of us because this virus mutates so fast. Therefore, I wish that we had the government in common now be given the responsibility to actually find the best measures, with the professional bodies in their backs. At the same time, we must act together with measures for an industry that is in trouble, but we must choose what is most urgent, and for the Christian People's Party to come life and health first.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2270	I understand that the measures we have taken have been tough for an industry that has had a difficult time. The bulwark stop is an intervention, and it is not a measure we have introduced with a light heart. However, the government’s decision on national tipping stops is based on clear recommendations from the FHI and the Health Directorate, which considered it necessary, given the serious and unbridled infection situation. On the recommendation of the agencies, the government decided on 13 December to give a full tip. This was an intensification of the tip of the hamlet, which was then valid from at 0 p.m. 24:00. Now infection rates are increasing again in Norway. The situation is therefore still serious and inconclusive. Yesterday we set a code of infection, today we set a new code of infection – with 8,391 infected. Contact mitigation measures are necessary. FHI writes that ‘discipline is considered to have a significant infectious effect’. People take less care of themselves and others the more alcohol they drink. Barriers help to reduce the mobility and contact of the population and thus also reduce the spread of infection. Research from the FHI also shows that employees in the restaurant and outdoor industries are among those with the highest risk of infection at work. It is clear that the full tip reduces contact between people to a greater extent than the tip of the tip until 1 p.m. 24 a.m. 22 or another time. It also reduces the contact between people to a greater extent than the gift of food-serving. From experience, we know that it is the sum of a series of measures that provide sufficient effectiveness. The fact that the measures have been grouped together in larger packages is in line with the recommendations we have received from the agencies. The total effect may be greater than the sum of each part by affecting each other. This also applies to prohibitions on the use of alcohol. It is a challenge that all groups affected by parts of the package may have very good reasons to be exempted. However, if we extract some of the elements of the action package, the impact of the measures will be reduced. It may be easy to document and to see the negative aspects of each measure, but more difficult to demonstrate the impact of the various individual measures on infection. If the national bulwark stop which both the Health Directorate and the FHI consider necessary is removed, other measures need to be introduced to maintain the overall impact of the package. In addition, we need to be more reluctant to facilitate other measures. I would like to challenge the big business representatives who are promoting this proposal, to give their opinions on these issues. I would also like to remind you that the government prioritises protecting children and young people, then taking into account workplaces and businesses when assessing infectious diseases. I would like to stress that it is incredibly important for the government to provide jobs and to help companies get the best out of the period this will take. That is why we have also introduced several compensation schemes, including: pay-as-you-go scheme. The situation can change quickly, and we have to look at developments before we make adjustments. We have put in place strong infection prevention measures to maintain control and to avoid overloading health and care services. This will also have an impact on reducing high levels of sick leave and on the simultaneous transmission of very many social-critical functions. We must constantly weigh different considerations against each other when introducing measures. We follow the situation continuously and will re-assess the measures over the next week, including the evaluation of the tipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2295	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2300	The right has over time criticized the government for slowing down the rate of vaccination. Our concern has been that if we do not receive more rapid vaccination, increasing infection will overburden the healthcare system, and the need for strict measures will be reported. It was therefore positive when in December the government set itself the goal of speeding up the vaccination, although in our opinion it was a little late. The goal of the government in December was that 400,000 were to be vaccinated in the week, and the last two weeks of 2021 700,000 were to be vaccinated. The fasititis was below 300,000, half. The goal was not reached. Vaccine is our way out of the pandemic and away from strict measures, and then the vaccine rate has to rise. Then is my question to the Council of State: what will the government specifically do in the future to speed up the vaccination process?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2309	There were bold goals when we sent out 720 000 doses, and it was related to how many had met the 20-week interval in order to receive their third dose. The municipalities have been on the line for a very long time, for 22 months, and they have built up their vaccine offerings as the third dose is the way out of the pandemic, as the representative points out. We have also made extra resources available. The defense has had an intervention team of 100 pst. covered; several municipalities have used it. We have established a framework agreement for pharmacies, which local authorities can use. Now there are 20 municipalities that have put it into use, and 30 that are clear, so that the number is now more than 50 municipalities. In addition, we sent 9 500 SMS messages to health professionals licensed to register in the municipality and get paid from the state to do vaccine work in their home municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2316	When one sees that one does not meet the objectives, one must, of course, initiate the actions of the Council of State. Obviously, the municipalities are doing a very good job. There are a lot of people who do a good job setting up vaccines. One of them is Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, the Right-Chair of the Health and Care Committee, who vaccinates, among others. I Eidsvoll. That's very good. Before Christmas, the Council of State said that the vaccine rate is taking on new measures. This means that if you get your pace up, you can also take down the strict measures that we, among other things, are taking. discusses this matter. My question, then, is, as a follow-up, and as the Council of State was also concerned about whether the use of defence and pharmacies: are all resources mobilised to vaccinate, and what does the Council of State think is the reason why the rate of vaccination is too slow?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2325	All the measures I mentioned in my previous answer were clear before Christmas. The municipalities made use of them at the end of December, through the Rome Christmas and in the scarce days we have counted up this year. It's important for me to say that even though the pace didn't go as fast up as we wanted, the pace actually increased considerably. I want to be careful to pass judgment on the efforts of the municipalities here. They've been on the line for a very long time. We're going to continue to make these resources available out of January – now there's also going to be a larger measure because now there's only the interval between dose two and dose three that's the restriction, not age groups – so that we get the pace up and get it overarmed. I think it's very nice to hear that Tone Wilhelmsen Troeen spends the day in Eidsvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2332	I record that the Council of State still cannot clarify what these assessments are all about. Last but not least, I also miss the explanation as to why there has been no dialogue with the industry. Where is the confidence in the industry? After all, there have been many other actors who have been trusted. I understand very well that the restaurant industry is disappointed today. Are they going to be listened to? No, as it looks in the Storing today, there won't be a majority to cancel the national tipping. We have also not been given any clarification as to how we intend to compensate for what is then a ban on food. I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: Since the mayor of Bergen, who comes from her party, supports the abolition of the tipping, will the Council of State give an unreserved excuse for the arrogant government's showing against this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2342	We have had dialogue with the social partners and the organisations in which these industries have gathered. We've had that throughout our reign. It has been an important part of pandemic management for both this government and the previous one. We have also had dialogue following the introduction of the infectious diseases control measures, in order to meet the challenges of compensation schemes that are taking place, including: the compensation scheme, which has been put in place after dialogue with industry. It is another Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility for it, but I would like to stress that compliance with the disease protection measures is strengthened when the government manages to come up with good compensation schemes for the industries affected at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2347	Governments are very concerned with knowledge, and I agree that it is important. In November and December it was approx. 1 pst. of those infected, who had been outside in Oslo – 1 p.m. Oh, my God! Everyone is concerned about the omicron variant, its consequences, and its severity, but it turns out that there is no overview of the hospital situation regarding the number of people admitted with omicron and how serious this is. Then my challenge to the Council of State is: How could you avoid making sure that you had this kind of knowledge, which would be important in the very discussion we have here today, about places of gift and the consequences for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2356	I am a little unsure whether I understood the question from the representative Hoksrud, but I understand that it is about the registration of omicron among the admitted covid-19 patients in the hospital. If that’s correctly understood – and I can look at the representative’s clear body language that it’s right – that’s something we’re obviously working on. Today, on 6 January, the omicron variant is the dominant virus variant in Norway. It shows how contagious it is. When referring to other countries and the strict measures we have in Norway, as exemplified by the tipping, we are right to set a code of infection in Norway today, but there are countries in Europe that are far more infected than we are. We must also take that with us. When we introduced the package on 13 December, the representative Hoksrud's comment was that we were too late, so today he wants us to cancel the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2363	First, I have to say that I fully understand that the government, when omicron suddenly owed us and came to surprise us all, and the government was in a situation where the healthcare service was in danger of being overburdened – a health service that was already understaffed, which was an inheritance from the previous government – took some decisions about intervention, where the foundation might not be as strong, but one did it as a leading var action, which has also emerged from among others. FHI, through their release in the media. That one set a period – from 15 December to 14 January – I also understand. But what we in SV can't understand is that one should not make any assessments and adjustments along the way. We perceive the infectious disease law so that it should happen on an ongoing basis. Have I understood that correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2368	We've given the Health Directorate and the FHI a running assignment. That means that both of our underlying agencies are following the situation continuously. Then the same agencies have been equally clear that they want some time to assess the impact of an action package. But it is not correct, as it is produced by the representative Knag Fylkesnes, that there are no ongoing assessments, even if you have said that you want to come back and look at the package before 14 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2373	The problem with the argument from the Council of State for a full skank stop is that it's completely generic -- it's not concrete. It is said that full pitch stops give less contact, and less contact gives less infection. There's no reason to doubt. However,infection law does not work in such a way that it may mean that it is an action that reduces contact, it is a proportionate measure. One must make a concrete assessment of the proportionality in which one looks at how much this will work, and what is the negative cost, in terms of private well-being, freedom, entrepreneurial income, etc. That assessment does not reflect the Council of States in its article. A major problem is that I assume that the government has made that assessment, but that they do not publish it. Then my question is: Why has not such a basis been published since the previous government took decisions during the Korona period? Why are they not published by this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2380	I would like to correct Mr Rotevatn's production. We have followed professional recommendations, and the infectious disease law says that a medical evaluation should be carried out. It has the FHI described in detail. There is something that I think the representative Rotevatn and I can quickly agree on: that behavior is influenced by the consumption of alcohol. The Health Directorate then made a proportionality assessment and discussed the measure in its response. And when we follow the professional authorities and publish their answer before we publish our own decision, I cannot agree that we have not published the proportionality assessments. If the government had made other assessments, I could have understood the representative Rotevatn's objection. When it comes to publishing on the government's website, I agree that this should be re-examined. It was concluded on 28 April by the previous government, and unfortunately we have not had the capacity to publish there. But we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2387	In the media today, the Council of State said that it could have been tempting for the representative of Solberg to defeat the government. Was the background for the Labour Party and the then representative of Kjerkol last January to the political defeat of the then government, in the middle of a pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2392	It wasn't. It was probably a sad ignorance and perhaps a little optimistic belief that you could separate those who serve food on a plate while at the same time donating their guests alcohol, and those who just donate alcohol. The experience of that decision is known today, for example: through a number of newspaper headlines on bars and pubs that sold sausages. Someone even ordered take away to their guests. It wasn't a good story. No industry standards were developed in this round. So it was really a embarrassing lesson – and it's probably no politician who likes to stand and admit from the Bighold's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2397	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2404	All of us are renting the pandemic, and we all understand that pandemic management is very demanding for any government – as it was for the previous one, so for this one as well. I don't think there's any disagreement about it in this hall across the board. But there is a substantive disagreement about what we are discussing today, not only between the parties that will vote differently here today, but also internally in the parties – fortunately, because this is not a problem or debate that should follow the party lines. That is why I am pleased that the local council of the Central Party in Trondheim, Marte Løvik, in the address newspaper today is taking the order to remove the national tip as soon as possible. So does Right Group Leader Ingrid. In the past, we have heard that the rapporteur of the Central Party and the Group leader of the Christian People's Party in Hemsedal and the head of the City Council of the Workers Party in Bergen have said the same, and one of the Workers' Party's representatives in Stortinget has done so at the latest. It's rare, but it's wise. I think they aim at a wonder and concern in the people – a wonder if exactly this measure is proportionate, a wonder how different it is between taking a glass of shower and getting a glass of wine or a beer for the food. They aim to wonder why it has to be full stop when FHI's own researchers say that part of the stall works just as well as full stop. They target a concern for people's life's work and jobs. The restaurant and food industry is an industry with evenly over very low margins, but employs very many. One of the problems that has arisen both today’s and former health ministers is the problem of differentials between places. But how much have they actually tried? Many municipalities succeeded in January last year. Why have national authorities not learned from this? Have they tried at all? The best thing would have been a national regulation that clarifies who gets the gift, and who doesn't get, gave the frames we have at all times. No one's going to get a full release here today. It's not about people at nightclubs and dance floors until three o'clock at night. Hopefully we get there that it'll be possible again, but we're not there right now. We're there that we should open up some glass of wine for a meal – not because it's so important to drink wine in itself. Of course, most of us do without, but it is important to take care of jobs and businesses in an industry that has worn out constantly for almost two years. And we're there where you can open something, you should do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2416	Thousands of jobs are affected by this ban. One thing is a ban on gift giving, as I said earlier, but I also see this as a ban on nutrition. These are ordinary people. There are cooks, waiters, students, mothers, fathers, employers, suppliers, producers of local raw materials, young people like old taxpayers – ordinary people. I therefore think it is reasonably arrogant that neither the Council of State on my question whether she wants to apologize to the arrogant industry they feel they are with, could bring it today. It is necessary to push compensation schemes forward, but when it is also clear feedback from the industry itself that it does not compensate for the prohibition it has imposed, it is perceived as very, very problematic. These are employers and business owners who may have borrowed their house or apartment in order to continue in the hope of predictability. I understand that many people are now very frustrated, and that's exactly why I saw it was also announced that you are now considering again going to court with the state, which I actually think will be a very interesting process to follow. Nor have we been given any further clarification today as to which assessments form the basis for such an in-depth action as this. They tried to show that they had had dialogue with the industry, but the feedback from my own hometown, Bergen, is rather the opposite. And to those who criticise the Progress Party for lifting these proposals today: I have been registered in the Progress Party perhaps first because it is the party that dares to be watchkeepers and ask questions about things – even in crisis situations. I'm very proud of that, and I'll have a debate on that at any time. However, there was something else today that was a little strange. Just before we started the debate, it was announced that Minister of Industry Jan Christian Vestre from the Workers' Party will come to Bergen this evening to talk to representatives of restaurants and localities in the city, and one example was shown. to the initiative for a national uproar by Tom Greni. What's strange is that no one has heard about the meeting, there's no information on the department's pages, and none of the actors have been invited. It would have been nice if the Minister of Health could explain more about what this meeting with the industry involves.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2429	Our country has been in a pandemic for almost two years. It has been demanding for the whole country. In Norway, as the trust-based country there is, where the trust between residents and authorities is great, it was easy to get the inhabitants on board. Being in such a condition over a long time is demanding, and many are worn out. We hear daily about infection peaks and hospital deposits. Our amazing health professionals are also tired, but despite this they make a formidable effort. In the restaurant industry, the service industry, it comes — and has come — bankruptcies. The government has set up a good payroll scheme, and the industry wanted to welcome the scheme. As a business leader in Haugaland said to me, I can't afford to lose more. I need my professionals. There is a strong evidence of a situation that is demanding. Unfortunately, the infection situation was such that in December we were forced to introduce another tipping stop, a determined government took out of the infectious counseling and on the advice of the FHI and the Health Directorate. A national infection stop frame restaurant nutrition extra hard enough once at a time. The industry bleeds, and it's bankrupt, and they add misters' safe, fixed wages that they have every month. Bankruptcy fails in the payroll scheme, but I am very pleased that we have a payroll scheme, because without it this would be much, much worse. As elected representatives, we see and hear shouts from the industry. They're in a very serious situation. The tip was – and is – necessary. It was an infectious agent. We must, however, turn all the stones and look at all the possibilities. What is it possible to do? We need to see what they're adding and what they're doing. I'm sure the government will follow this in a good way, based on the assessments that are taken together with both the Department and the FHI. We've been in the pandemic for almost two years. It's heavy right now, but together we'll do it. The scan stop must be raised as soon as possible. I know that the government is taking it very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2442	What is non-slip and documented is that restaurants go bankrupt, that employees lose their jobs or get laid off, that life's work goes down, and that suppliers are hit. It's documented, it's clear. Then we don't have to discuss it, and we agree on it. Anything else that's clear is the numbers. In week 1 in 2021, the whole week a year ago, there were 4,589 infected. In the first week now in 2022 it was 33,666, and today it was 8,391. That is, there are a lot, a lot more people getting infected now. The measures that were in January last year were also strong. We could be just five together, and we could almost not go out. What should not be the measures now? Now you should shut down society. We should stay under the dyke, all of us, if we're to believe in our own numbers. Today is even 80 pst. or 90 pst. I don't know. Vaccinated. That time they weren't. Nevertheless, today the measures are less powerful than they were at that time. Maybe you're not completely sure what to do. Nevertheless, you are sure in this room that exactly one measure with the tipping is wise, or overall is wise, as you say. All right. Then it is that Espen Nakstad and Camilla Stoltenberg do not determine Norwegian policy. They give advice and recommendations. Then Jonas Gahr Støre has said that we need to see if it is proportionate, and now we have documented that it is not proportionate. The industry despairs, people who work, despair, students despair, owners despair, suppliers despair, and then you think it's proportionate. No, it's not proportionate. You don't even know if it works. How, then, can this be proportionate? This is political prestige. It's classic political prestige, and everyone knows it. It was political prestige when Erna Solberg was in the pulpit here under the previous government, and the previous government was so perfect. Now, this government comes and is just as perfect despite the fact that you meant something else the last time. That's political prestige. I can guarantee one thing, and now I see the Council of State a little bit in my eyes, and that's that this tipping is going to change in a week. Then it is responsible, completely independent of what the advice and recommendations should be from the FHI and the directorate. It's going to be canceled, even if you say you get other measures. But you know the tip is very unpopular, you know it hits. They know that today, and they know that the next Friday. Nevertheless, you have to keep people on the peg one more week, completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2457	Paragraphs 1 to 5 lay down the basic requirements for the implementation of infectious disease protection measures, i.e. the Code: ‘Infective measures under the law shall be based on clear medical grounds, necessary for the protection of the infection and shall appear appropriate after an overall assessment.’;» It will be exciting to see what the courts think about this tipping-off with regard to these three necessary provisions, but there is one more thing: ‘Compulsory measures may not be used where, in accordance with the nature of the case and the circumstances of the case, there would otherwise be disproportionate interference.’ Then I assume that the government actually has such a review. On the one hand, there are the costs to society of the intervention – and there are many who have spoken about this today; it is quite dramatic – and on the other hand, what we achieve. How many hospital admissions are hindered by the tipping? It can then be assessed in a proportionate way, and the burden of proof lies in saying that the tipping-off is going on, and so many people are not admitted to hospital, because this is for health care reasons all this is happening. If we go back a little bit in time, we know it was 1 400 who died of common influenza in 2017-2018. So there were more people who died of a common flu than so far have died of covid-19, not necessarily of covid-19. It will be exciting to see these legal assessments of proportionality. I have no doubt that I believe that the tipping is both illegal and unconstitutional. Then it's what's always said that the professionals have given advice. It doesn't sound like that to the Council of State. It seems that the professionals have decided, and that she is only a layman who implements the opinions of the professionals. I would like to stress that the Council of State and the Government are responsible for their decisions. That they listen to so-called professionals is okay, but you don't necessarily have to be a professional or a professional to assess whether you can sit at a restaurant where everyone has to sit at designated places at the table, get food served and get to drink a glass of wine or beer, or Coca Cola or Pepsi Max, whose limit, for example. set to 0:00 p.m. Twenty-two in the evening. That someone might be misbehaving in a drunken state at 5 p.m. 02 at night, I accept, but it is fully possible to remove the tip and follow the rest of Section 13 of the covid-19 regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2478	Most people are probably quite tired of both coronary apathy and measures, and much has been said in the debate. I still think it's in place to remember that the situation was much worse last year. It was common among people to go online and click and download because the country was shut down. Now we've come a lot further. We have come so far that in the debate that was earlier this week, we hear that the researchers in the FHI say no, there is no reason to say that a limited opening and giving has a greater infectious effect than that of shutting down. It doesn't. It's actually so that it's fully feasible to implement it. That is why some of us have called for a proposal, which is also our duty to act as elected representatives. It is absolutely right that there is delegated authority to the government, but it has not been said that you should at all times agree silently on what is happening. This is an industry that has been in stable side rentals for a long time, and has hardly gotten up in kneel before being rolled to the ground again. The whole life's work is about to fall on this. Too many people have fallen. There are people who have to get out of work and find something else to do, and then it's my duty to say, "No, I don't trust this anymore." In fact, there are other laws to be applied when someone changes behavior because they've got too many glasses of wine. What we do in this room is to show distrust of an entire industry, which is subject to the alcohol law and the alcohol regulation when it serves people. It's the one that has to define when the behavior has changed so that you don't have to give up. It's not the I.D., and I think it's in my place that this hall actually takes hold of. I hope that more people through the debate have been informed enough to support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2487	It is interesting to hear some of the representatives of the Progress Party standing and asking for knowledge, professional advice and justification. You don't come up with a single reason why you want to take action, how it's fair, or who says it's a good idea to do it. When I hear particularly some of the last representatives talking here, I would say that there is no one in the government who has distrusted the industry, but you take a virus seriously and come up with the necessary measures. You also show leadership when it's difficult, because that's what leadership is all about. As for the representative Hagen, I am not so surprised, but the contempt shown to professionals from the pulpit surprises me. The way you talk about FHI and the health authorities, I just have to distance myself. What is based on the professionally justified measures for the protection of infectious diseases are important professionals who have a bearing on it. I think FHI has more bearing than the Advance Party, simply. I choose to listen to them. I also choose to listen to the Nurses' Association, which went out yesterday and warned against what you are doing now. I choose to listen to the debate that was going on before Christmas, with regard to the intensive capacity – nurses crying out of despair on TV. That is why we are taking the necessary measures. So you make continuous assessments. No one wants to have that kind of action. You do it because it's necessary. The representative Hoksrud is trying to make political coins that one day you asked to go to the Christmas table, and the other day you come up with measures. Why was it asked to go to the Christmas table? Well, because you are concerned about the industry, because you are concerned that as far as possible, you have to use the offers that are, because this industry has suffered for so long. But what changed? Yes, there was a new variant of the virus. You didn't know that one day, but you knew it the other, and then you chose to act. That's what you have to do when you show political leadership. You still show that you can only take one glass of wine. Yes, but we as politicians can't decide that. Either it's open or it's not. Either it is believed that limiting close contacts, limiting people’s contacts, working – or not. It's sadly the way it has to be right now, but I'm absolutely sure that when you get the professional basis on the table, you'll make the right decisions in the government, and as soon as possible, you'll open what you can open.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2498	I'll get a quick summary. I shall not interfere with the vaccine dose of the representative Rotevatn, but it is impossible not to comment on any of what has been said from the Chair. There are several central party leaders who have taken the word in this case through the pandemic – and otherwise there will be many good advice and input from central party leaders – but one thing is certain, and that is that what we need now is the professional assessments that underlie. Therefore, I have taken the freedom of the media to be clear that we are now expecting an update, a professionally qualified update from the public health authorities on how these species behave. That's exactly what the government needs to make its judgements and to come back to society and our citizens with their decision-making options. We are fortunately aware that the consumption of alcohol creates greater challenges for us when it comes to maintaining the measures to prevent infection in society. When I spoke to the supervisory authorities that I referred to in my article earlier today, I was able to recognise that in 199 out of 200 of the checks carried out in a busy municipality, it was revealed in the notes in the report that infectious diseases recommendations are not followed by guests. This implicitly means that a person is unable to maintain this in as good a way as we now need. I hope that we can use this pulpit in the future to discuss how we should actually split out of the pandemic in a good way and rather build up under it, instead of creating greater fear, greater discontent and distrust among the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2509	It's very special that here you as a party are almost being looked down on because you're actually dealing with issues that not only the industry is now asking questions about. Former Prime Minister Solberg goes up and says that there is no doubt that the Storting interferes with this. No, it's not. If there is something the Stortinget should do, it is to take care of the interests of its citizens – and of the business community as well. When the Council of State says, as Solberg said, that there is professional advice and a range of measures, it is quite right, but it should be proportionate. There must be reason to ask questions, because there is a completely different situation now in January than it was in January one year ago. Now you have more scientists, FHI and games. At the latest today there was an infectious agent in Bergen who said that he believes the measure is too strict. He also refers to the Bergen overview, which shows that ‘only 341 infections of the total 17,608 in Bergen are related to serving sites.’ When the Council of State says here today that we need to reduce contact with each other, it is really strange that the restaurants are not completely closed. It may seem that there is a distrust of these service points and the industry, for it is clear from the advice and rules put in place at midnight on 15 December: Mealing points shall ensure that all can maintain a distance of 1 metre from non-household members and the corresponding proximity. Meals shall not carry out activities normally involving less distance between guests than 1 metre. Meals must ensure the protection of infectious diseases, but must also ensure that there are not too many. There is a requirement for mouthbands where it is not possible to hold the meter, except while sitting at the table. It is an obligation to register guests who consent to it. It would have held, it would have held. If the government had trusted those places, it would have escaped the point that it is not allowed to serve alcohol. That is what we in the Progress Party ask questions about when we address this proposal. It's just that if you keep it, it's not a problem. In fact, it is the responsibility of the service providers to ensure compliance with those rules — if not, a major challenge. I believe that there is an arrogance from the government and individual representatives in this Chamber when one believes that a party or politicians should not raise this in the Stortinget. If there's something about our job in Stortinget, travelling is about people's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2538	In reply to me in the reply, the Minister of Health and Health said that the government has justified the proportionality of this measure because the Health Directorate has done so. That's not good enough. It's not the Health Directorate that has authority to make these decisions. The Health Directorate is not responsible for the Storting for them. That's the government that does. And it's the government's independent duty to assess the proportionality and justify it. Besides, the government's attitude here is not consistent, because that's also the case where the government has chosen a different conclusion from that drawn by the Health Directorate. For example, there is a red level in advanced schools. At that time, the professional authorities did not recommend moving on with it. The government made another assessment without publicising its assessment of the proportionality. It illustrates why it is important for the government itself to come out with the basics. It also illustrates why it is important that the proposal that the Left and I have been looking forward to today should be adopted. So that's what I hope the Storting will say, including the Right Party, that it's now on. It's simply about asking the government Støre to follow the same practice as the government of Solberg. One thing is the formal publication. The council said they have not had time to update the government website. It can be believed or not believed, but a major problem is that the Council of State itself in the media, for example. in the evening post today, on direct questions about the proportionality will not justify it, but only indicates that a holistic assessment of it by the government has been made. That is not good enough, and therefore I will ask Stortinget to vote for that proposal. The reason why this is important is that the functioning of an action is not sufficient. It is not that because a measure is contact-reducing or limiting infection, it is therefore proportionate. I think both that a mouthbanding ban reduces infection, I think that a gift ban reduces infection, and I think that refusing people to visit their own homes reduces infection, but yet a different assessment of those measures is going to be made because they intervene in people's lives in a different way. Mouth bindings are not very invasive. Refusing to have a visit to your own apartment is very intrusive. A prohibition is also very intrusive, both for individuals and not least for business. So I'm going to end by repeating the call from my main post to the Council of State: it's not going to let anything happen in this case. The left respects that there's a difference in the role between big business and government. We think the government should take these decisions, but one shouldn't let it go accuracies, because I'm doubtful that this is a proportionate measure, to say it carefully. It has great consequences, and not least it creates great popular resistance. It is also about the legitimacy of the entire infectious disease policy, which is also a relevant element of these assessments that I hope the government will focus on when to take their decisions on the road after 14 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2551	A lot has been said, and it was said even before today that no one knows what actions really work. Well, I'm sure the Health Directorate and the FHI know more about the professional reasons than a simple boy from the country, like myself, does. I hope so, at least we can take that to heart. That's the exact skill that's the point here. Today's Medisin is about, among other things, researcher Fredrik Methi at FHI, who has investigated what happened at the tip of the hamlet in the autumn of 2020. He says, “When we compare the infection in municipalities with full, partial and no tipping stops, we see that after four weeks the infection was reduced by 50–60 percent in municipalities with full and partial tipping stops.” Before someone arrests me for that, it also says that it is difficult to say which measures are specific, precisely because there is a package of measures. That was also the fall of 2020, and that is also what is being brought to the square now. But then the answer is really pretty simple: if we're going to lighten up something, something has to tighten up. So here in the hall we have to ask ourselves what's going to be tightened up. Are we going to cut out the child rights even more than what we've done, or are we going to tighten up in other areas? We almost have to have an answer to that when research also says that it is the package of the different measures that work. Or do those who have put forward proposals, such as the Progress Party and the Greens today, want us to actually push our health services even harder? That's the result. I think there are many of us who have had meetings with nightlife actors and employees in the industry all over the country. For my own part, I can at least say that I know well the hopelessness they know. I think we all know someone who is hit and not allowed to go to work this day. So this picture isn't that one-sided either. It is a large restaurant owner in Larvik called Pál Taklo, who has up to several places there. He said when the tip was introduced: ‘In the case of alcohol, we can control things when people are inside us, but then people have to go home, they're going to mingling and they're going to take a taxi. [...] We get to be part of the infection." That's what one of the biggest drivers in Larvik said. The professional advice from the Health Directorate and the FHI is very clear on the tipping point. I am pleased that we have a government that listens to our professional authorities on medical matters. That's the way out of this pandemic. But the most important way out is that everyone has to take the vaccine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2574	I reacted a little to the post of the representative Myrseth, as among others. draws up the representative Carl I. Hagen and several of us others who have promoted this proposal, as someone who has despised professionals. It could have been tempting to turn it around and say that, on the contrary, perhaps the Workers' Party has actually despised a whole industry, as we still – now that the debate is about landing – have not been given clear clarifications as to what assessments are on the basis and how this proportionality assessment has been made. So you could say that there is a difference between the approach of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party in terms of prohibition. In a rule of law, it is – at least my approach – that when a ban is introduced, which is quite different from a number of other measures, it should be justified. We have not received any justification, and then it is quite clear – as I said instead – that it must be allowed in this room to be a watchbow that challenges it. The Progress Party has done so before. Then the Center Party and the Workers' Party agreed with us that it was absolutely right to do so. Then you might want to push ahead of yourself that there might have been some unfortunate consequences of this with food serving, and that it wasn't regulated well enough, but there has been enough time to find solutions. I don't understand that it should be so incredibly much more complicated than that local politicians could have been given this responsibility, or that there was simply a demand for the kitchen in these places. So here's a lot of excuses why you don't want to support the proposals of the Progress Party, even if you did it a year ago. This is done at the same time as – as I have said before – one does not provide the good reasons, and we have not been given any assurances as to what kind of compensation or compensation scheme this industry can see to have with this ban on nutrition. Nor is there any regret from the Council of State to all the thousands of employees of the arrogant government have exercised against these employees. I think that's very sad, and I had hoped that we could at least deal with each other with a little respect from the pulpit, even if you disagree on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2586	The representative Myrseth was up and said that the government was so good to act when you had to do it. Yes, it is every time there are restrictions, but when you had to look at it and consider the other way, the government decided a month ago that there was 14 January that you should be able to make changes – nothing before that. It's quite special and arrogant, and I think it's sad that the government in that way just chooses to overrun and doesn't take this into account. So the council didn't understand my question in the first place. I thought it was ready. It's very simple, because it's about knowledge, it's about the advice you're going to get. In fact, you have to know how many omicrons are in the hospital. I think that might be important, and especially when you see it in relation to the infection numbers. It's okay to say that in Oslo – that's what I've been getting from someone who's a pathologist – since November 271 people have been surveyed by the path of infection restaurant/bar, there are 5,000 by the unknown route of infection, there are 5,000 households, and there are 3,000 in school and kindergarten who have received coronary infection. These are the places they've been given it – a very small proportion in the restaurant. Yes, we get the professional advice, we know what the professional authorities want, but we don't know what the government has based on their decision, and that's something that's the discussion. I believe it is absolutely right that the Storting should be able to discuss this. Then I feel that representatives, among others. The Central Party is standing on this pulpit and hopes that we'll use the pulpit to discuss how we're going to get out of the pandemic. Of course we should, no one disagrees with that. We're going to use it not to create fear or dissatisfaction, but the Storting must be able to discuss and discuss things that the government is doing with which it is possible to question. And it's not just the Progress Party asking questions about this. It is rapporteurs from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, it is the Joint Confederation, it is the NHO, it is the business association for small and medium-sized enterprises that is asking the same questions, which are critical of the tipping-up that the government has set up. There are many, many thousand people out there who have lost their job, or who are licensed, there are companies that go bankrupt every day. This is the reality out there, and it's sad that the government doesn't want to take this any more into consideration – and the government parties, because I think you have an arrogant attitude in the debate that has been in the Stortinget today. I think it's sad. This is an important matter for a lot of people, and you can risk having an action against the state. Some organisations have said that they are now assessing, and that should actually be taken seriously. And everyone agrees: our health staff has done a great job, we have to make sure that they can still do it, and we have to do everything we can to get out of the pandemic, but the measures have to be proportionate to each other in order to have the great confidence in the population. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2601	When I hear the debate, I wonder sometimes whether we need to raise our eyes a little. In fact, Norway is one of the countries designated by Bloomberg to be the best managers of the coronary crisis, both health and economic. It's because people have followed the advice and measures that have been put in place through this pandemic. The right will not be in and outrun the government, for the Storting has authorized the government to introduce corona measures on the basis of professional advice. I also believe that the Stortinget does not have the same professional competence as the government, based on the advice of a sheep from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute. It may also be that full hamlet stops will not be necessary in the future. For example, you may be able to look at limitations in opening hours rather than full vigilance, but it is up to the professional authorities to assess. We also expect the government, together with the professional authorities, to make those assessments when, one week, the situation and the further measures will be assessed. I also think it is important for the government to make a greater contribution to the establishment of understanding among peoples and businesses as to why one implements the measures that one makes, in order to justify their decisions. It is then quite right that a person should also make more public the assessments he has made, as the previous government did. When you haven't done it since April last year, it's starting to be quite a long time ago, and I hope that the sitting government will follow up. There is no doubt that there is a difficult situation for the serving sites. I also believe that one in this debate should not forget that very many serving sites have received very good training in how to help deal with the situation, and how they should contribute to having good infection prevention measures by having contact mitigation measures. I also hope that this will be emphasised when the government, together with the professional authorities, will review the situation and measures next week. But don't forget that we're one of the countries in the world that's dealt with this situation the best, both economically and healthfully, and I think it's important to take it with us when we have this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2616	I want to point out that we are still in the midst of a crisis. The pandemic is not over. We have record high infection these days, and hospitals have covid-fatigue, i.e. that they are worn out. I wish that the Advance Party, as they had the possibility in government, had spent the time cleaning up the health care system. The tipping is not an isolated measure, but part of a package of measures, because omicron is a major threat to our society. With as many infections as we have today, many people have to stay home. In turn, jobs, businesses and health services are being affected, which are now fading because they lack people at work. There's a lot of sick leave around our country. We've got to get the infection out of here. The bulwark stops the outdoor and restaurant industries, suppliers and taxi industries. The frustration and the mind that comes from the nutrients is understandable, because it's their livelihood. The measure we know works, is distance. The distance between us is what makes less infected. When we go out to get some glasses, it's to create closeness. So there's one reason why these nutrients are framed. The Arbeidarparti-Senterparti-Registration has guaranteed wage support and extra compensation to the municipalities, so that the municipalities can distribute to the affected companies. Tomorrow, I'm going to celebrate my birthday in a society that's under the guise, and it's going to be fine. I might have thought of bringing my friends out on a cerebral vent, but I can't. I hope I can in the near future. This is an intervention, and we need to take care of it. I'm sure the government will do that, and I'm sure that once again we can get a brain vent on the city in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2627	Listening to this debate is a shocking thing, I have to say. The representative Myrseth opened his previous post by saying that he would open when it was proper. Yes, that's interesting, for the whole of Europe otherwise, with greater infection pressure, it seems right now, except for the Netherlands, as Jonas Gahr Støre pointed out – we're talking about all the other countries that have found that it's still safe to serve and donate with higher infection pressures. Well, then you've found out that something else is good in Norway, and that's interesting. The representative Myrseth again: we are listening to professional advice. But why not follow all the professional advice? They asked what the Progress Party knows about medical advice that they don't know. Nothing – we know nothing more about the professional advice than those responsible, the Health Directorate and the FHI. We know nothing more than them. The government does the same thing, it doesn't take all the advice and recommendations and implement them into politics. What does the government know that these professionals don't know? I don't know, but you have to try to be a little consistent in the argument. We sit and talk to each other like we're a bunch of kids. We have to be able to use some intellectual capacity to understand what the others are saying, and try to look it up against each other. I understand that you have to have partial loyalty and government loyalty, but there are shades here on both sides. It is people in the People's Party who disagree with this, and I am sure it is people in the Labour Party who disagree with the Labour Party's position. Can we not try to have a debate that is factual instead of defending what the party or top management has said they should do? So it's interesting to listen to the representative, Vasvik. He asks, "What other areas should the Advance Party tighten up if you're going to cancel the tipping? Aha, next Friday, the tipping stops will be lifted, and then there will be some other action that says that the totality is now there so that the tipping can be lifted. I'd like to make a bet about it, but I'm pretty sure of it. And so what came from the representative Boe from the Right: we've done well financially through this pandemic. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing with 1 million public employees, 1.2 million pensioners, 1 million Nav and 1 million children and young people. It was just supposed to be missing, it's all government employees – it just had to be lacking that we've made it financially. What is going on is the private sector, which is relatively small in Norway. They're the ones who are hit, whether it's culture, whether it's the restaurant business, or whether it's bars and pubs. They're the ones hit. Even some of these cultural institutions are also publicly funded. It is the private business that is affected, and then it is not strange that we have managed financially – it should just be lacking. I am not in need as a proxy; I get my salary every day and every month and I am not plagued by this, and I drink beer at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2638	I take the floor to comment on Mr Rotevatn's comments. It is simply not the way the representative makes it. Rotevatn stresses that the government has an obligation to make an independent assessment. And yes, we have, in the same way that the Rotevatn government until October 14 was part of. We've even done it through a royal resolution that the Corona Commission's first report pointed out, to really show that this is going through the authority and what is in the Code of Disease Protection. We have openly explained why, for example: the introduction of red levels in secondary and non-yellow levels, as recommended by the competent authorities. Both I and the Minister of Knowledge have made this public in many channels. If you look at the website for the updates from 21 January 2021 to 28 April 2021, where the government of Solberg published their decisions, they have reproduced the evaluations and joined them, just as the government of Støre has done. So the last government stopped updating these websites on April 28, 2021. My ambition is to update them again. There were a number of decisions from the Solberg government that unfortunately were not published on this website, and when we get our heads over the water, we're going to make sure that it's well communicated there. It is not possible to present it as if the government's assessments were neither made nor published, because it is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2647	The representative Cecilie Myrseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2652	I just have to solve one thing. So it was said in this room, "so-called professionals" in the FHI. I think it's contempt for knowledge, for professionals. I stand for that. Then the Progress Party must resist being contradicted. It's not that when you're contradicted or argued against, those who do are arrogant, but it's doing less than you are, for a party. No one has said that the debate should not be raised. We stand here in the national Parliament discussing infectious diseases. It's in all media channels. It's not exactly to say that you shouldn't raise the debate. So instead of making yourself small and calling other arrogant, like a rule technique, you should deal with and – as the representative Tybring-Gjedde says – listen to what the others say. Then it is also that for this government, the workplaces are important, and life and health must always come first.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2661	It is clear that this is a difficult matter for many, including too many parties, because we have not gone to the elections on whether or not we are going to have a tipping stop. Or, it's possible that some parties have it, but at least that's not what we in Red have focused our attention most on when we have designed our policies. But that doesn't mean we're not going to make political assessments under the pandemic, and we have to decide what is proportionate. Then it's very interesting to know what the government's assessments are, because the government's assessments are not publicly known to us. Obviously, there are many ways of limiting the infection. In Bergen, where I come from, you have a very comprehensive study of the infection tracking that shows that about 2 pst. be connected to the outdoors and that close to 10 pst. be connected to home parties. I am quite certain that many of those who work in the outdoor industry believe that some of the jobs they do, including under the pandemic, are about limiting the infection associated with the consumption of food and drink. And I think they're right about that, although the risk of infection, of course, increases every time people gather. The question is: what are the best measures, and what are the most important considerations? The problem with the tipping is not about people wanting to go out and drink – at least that's not what makes us engage – but it's about someone in practice getting a job ban here. Time and again, those who work in the outdoor industry have had to take up the burden of shutting down society. And in December it was quite special, because I went shopping Christmas presents at malls that were packed with people. We could have chosen differently, we could have had a different political priority to limit human contact, for example. by reducing the Christmas trade instead of reducing the Christmas table revenue to the outdoor industry. So you could say that none of the parts are very high-valued, but we're making political assessments of this all the time. We in Red have assessed it so that the reasons and assessments for why the out-of-life business is going to take that burden again, and that the out-of-life workers are going to take that burden again, are difficult for us to have a full overview and insight into. We believe that this is well-founded, that there is a lack of democratic anchoring, and we want to support some of the proposals here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2672	It's a bit of a strange debate. I must honestly admit that. When someone thinks that if people just drink alcohol at home, it gets less infected than doing it at a restaurant where you can sit and eat, and where you can do it in organized forms, it tracks – and I – a little bit from what's real. This is a debate between the government party, and the right has also been hanging around and has a very conservative role and is not going to challenge anything at all. But when you look at the media picture, there are also spokesmen from the government party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party who are asking for these tips to be lifted, for example. in the valley of Hemsedal, and in Tromsø, where they don't understand why there shall be banishment. When you enter Hemsedal and e.g. The beach, from which I come, or Trysil, which are big tourist destinations now in winter, what is the logic when one comes shining into the ski centre and can't take a dart to the food, but one can travel away to the cabin and have parties with friends and acquaintances, that's quite ok? That's what's done when you lock this thing out. This means that there are a number of areas that will be bordered, at least once – not to mention the areas such as: are shut down, such as the cruise industry. It's just taking a trip to Geiranger or Flame or wherever it might be. The cruise industry is shut down, no one goes ashore, and in addition they get tipped off. I just have to admit that there are few places there is more safe to go and have a beer or a wine glass with food than in a restaurant, compared to what is of many other possibilities of influence in such a context, both the shopping mall and anything else, as it is said here. In total, it is strange that one does not allow the local self-government to control. There's a lot of municipalities where there's about no infection. When you can't serve at a restaurant or a ski restaurant in those areas because someone has decided that there should be a hamster stop, it's quite incomprehensible, to put it mildly. I saw in the media a short time ago that both the Left and many others as well would turn on the big room and cancel this tip, but it doesn't look like that. It's pretty much just the Progress Party that is left with a suggestion to cancel it, and it's interesting to see what the different voices are. I am at least unlikely to be disappointed that the government happens all over a comb, making it easier and easier to frame the restaurant and barn activities – an industry that has cured down many times before.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2681	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2686	I just have to go to the representative Vasvik, who actually made a very good point. He said that according to FHI today – he had seen it in one of the media – it is 50–60 pst. reduction also in the case of partial shut-down. So that means that the government has a different option. So if you had supported the proposals of the Progress Party today, you could be in favour of a partial closure, which the industry itself has called for, where you can serve alcohol, but with a somewhat shorter opening time. It is also one of the measures that can be taken. I said we support the other proposals, and I want to make it clear that of course we do it subsidiaryly. We have our own proposal, which we believe is the very best, and which we had hoped even more would have supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2694	Cecilie Myrseth, from the Workers' Party, I thought I had criticized the professionals. I didn't. I have criticized the government for constantly pushing the professionals in front of me and thereby trying to waive its own responsibility for making an overall assessment. I have now heard the professionals at press conferences for quite many months, and if that is something they constantly stress, it is the uncertainty. I have today tried to ask: How many fewer posts do we get in hospitals as a result of the tipping? That's what's absolutely the basis of fact in order to assess whether the negative consequences of the tipping are proportionate to what we achieve. I can't remember that neither the Health Directorate nor the FHI have ever indicated how many fewer hospital admissions there will be as a result of the tipping. Another representative spoke about this being part of a package of measures. There may be someone who thinks so, but we do not propose to cancel the package of measures. What we're proposing is to cancel the fourth paragraph of Section 14 of the covid-19 regulation, and it says like this: ‘Suppliers’ points of entry under the alcohol law Chapters 4 and 5 or under the alcohol system for Svalbard Chapter 3 shall not exercise the grant of the gift.’ All other rules are quite detailed in the covid-19 regulation, where it is stated that those with a gift permit should have seats for all guests. It usually doesn't have a pub or a bar, but it's enough of the regulations in the covid-19 regulation that regulate. Now, what we're proposing to do is just apply to all the restaurants and dining places that now don't have guests because the guests, in addition to eating a good meal, want a glass of beer or wine for the food, instead of Cola. Unfortunately, we're people so decorated, at least some, that if you can't get a glass of wine or beer for food, and the food at the restaurant is expensive in Norway, you can't go to the restaurant. Then you stay at home. That is the problem for all the jobs we in this house and with the government now in fact have removed. The responsibility is with the state. It'll be exciting to see the lawsuits that I hope are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2710	The representative, Mr. Tybring-Gjedde, and in and on behalf of Carl I. Hagen too, correctly pointed out that I said that the measures were a package, and that is why I asked to know what the Progress Party would tighten in. Then the representative showed Tybring-Gjede to the government next week. I think that's totally irresponsible of seeing the measures as a whole, which we all actually think is right. The pandemic's about to happen. People are in hospitals. Industry is struggling with cloud-high sick leave, and industries are struggling with the economy. That's serious. To the representative Hagen, who apparently criticized the government and not the professionals: I assume, President, that if I had called my colleagues ‘so-called politicians’, I would have been clubbed for disrespect for my colleagues. I assume that also happens when we talk about our professionals. Yeah, in other countries it's open, so people can get a glass of wine out. They also have high levels of infection. They have a death rate that is significantly higher than in Norway. That is why our professional authorities are clear in their assessments. We think it's worth listening to them, and I'm glad the government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2719	I have to comment on the representative Myrseth, who thought it was not that easy for Stortinget to regulate close contacts at restaurants, and therefore it was really hopeless. It's not that at all. What the Progress Party invited to do is get the debate on whether you could have a graduated offer. This means that if the municipalities will close at 1 p.m. 22, they do that. They'll close at noon. 24, they do it. The progress party hasn't been able to open up and say that it doesn't mean anything, but we're taking one point that we're putting big question marks at. Then I now register on the grounds that the City Councillor in Oslo believes exactly the same thing. He agrees with the Progress Party. But I had expected that when the Council of State was invited to the Stortinge to take the debate, she could actually justify and refer to the concrete professional evaluation of one specific matter with tipping, partial or total. It still hasn't responded to it, except to say that it's a total assessment, but she can't get to the pulpit and tell me what it would mean if you shut down at 0 p.m. 22, with dinner or not. That's what we expected. Then it's nice to hear the Workers' Party, which previously listened to the Joint Union, which is also clear here and listens to the workers. But the fact that the mayor of Oslo now agrees with the Advancement Party should be a cross of thought. I hope that when the debate is so polarized, there are people sitting on the facts. We have the exact same facts. We're just questioning, like other professionals who have now put the question mark in the public vocabulary in the last couple of weeks. Then it's interesting to see, since the proposal is probably down, what the government is doing in a few days, if it's suddenly quite okay because it's passed the date when, as you said in December, you would take a new assessment. It's very special. I hope that's not going to be the practice in the future. This is not how the Progress Party begins to lift up and go against the professional. We don't have a habit to do that. During the pandemic, Stortinget has been gathered mostly and largely. I also think the Council of State remembers it even in a debate that has gone. It was about quarantine hotels where you could live at home and safer instead of living with others and with increased infection. There was no clear professional recommendation either. The only professional thing was that we had to have deterrent measures so people wouldn't travel that much. Then we've put the question mark by just what with the alcoholic versus having a partial offer of serving.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2732	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2746	The cancellation is then ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2783	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-5, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘A temporary mechanism is established in accordance with the model of the European Committee on Proposing Matters of Importance for Norway, with a duration as long as Norway is a member of the United Nations Security Council. The scheme intends to ensure public debate, democratic anchoring and legitimacy of government policy in the Security Council.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to work to strengthen the international legal protection of children who are kept in the armed conflict.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how our national legislation can strengthen the protection of children who are kept in armed conflict through, inter alia, provisions on repatriation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative of the Security Council to impose sanctions on Israel’s violations of international law.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative of the Security Council to impose sanctions on Turkey’s violations of international law.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2823	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on Norway's membership of the United Nations Security Council be annexed to the Protocol in 2022. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2835	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Ingrid Fiskaa on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left and Christian People's Party the proposals No 6-13, from Ingrid Fisaa on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 14-17, from Guri Melby on behalf of the Left and Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with an overview of today’s licences for the sale of A- and B-materials and cases where the sale of equipment or weapons is used as part of the repression of its own population or violation of international law.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the impact on business and effective export control of merging the lists of A- and B-materials.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2871	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure an immediate stop in all exports of strategic goods to countries participating in the Yemeni Civil War.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop all exports of Norwegian strategic goods to states where the military and security apparatus are instrumental in systematic and serious human rights violations.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Stortinget to keep up to date on changes in exports to the countries of the Saudi Leia coalition intervening in Yemen, and to inform the Stortinget immediately of changes in exports of strategic goods to these countries, on the basis of the precautionary principle of avoiding Norwegian goods contributing to the violation of international law.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking that requirements for end-user documentation become practice in all exports of strategic goods, including to NATO countries and close allies.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to publish the grounds for refusal and approval of licence applications to non-NATO countries.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests the strengthening of the openness of the Norwegian export control regime and the clarification of the possibility of introducing a similar practice to that of the Netherlands, where Parliament is publicly informed of the acceptance of export licences over a certain sum, except for the nearest allies, with details of the assessment of the criteria against the application within two weeks of the approval of the application.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests a proposal to amend the Export Control Regulation to ensure that Norwegian digital surveillance technology is not exported to countries where there is a risk of technology being used in violation of human rights.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests the strengthening of prevention efforts against potential exporters of strategic goods and to clarify to companies exporting strategic goods that they are responsible for making self-esteem assessments and to report on their follow-up as part of the annual monitoring report on exports of strategic goods.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2928	It turns out that several have voted incorrectly. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2940	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 17, from the Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with an overview of ways the Netherlands has increased the degree of parliamentary control over exports of A- and B-materials.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that exports of biometric monitoring technology are covered by the definition of multi-use products by the Norwegian Export Control Authority.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e2967	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a public selection to be set up to review the Norwegian export control regime, both the legislation and the administrative side, in a holistic manner, in order to ensure real and verifiable compliance with its 1959 Decision and 1997 Presidency and with international obligations. In addition, the selection shall assess the need for more clarification, in line with Norwegian International Law, Humanitarian Law and Human Rights obligations.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an independent investigation into exports of strategic products to the countries involved in the Yemen war, with a mandate to investigate the risk that Norwegian-produced strategic products have been used in Yemen.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to interpret criterion 2 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ export control guidelines, on the human rights situation in the recipient countries more stringent than today, and to ensure that Norway does not export strategic products to regimes responsible for serious human rights violations.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a case to ensure that the United Nations arms trade agreement Articles 6 and 7 are included in the law or regulation.’ [[ATT]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the possibility to develop control mechanisms to allow for post-control of the statements of end-users, for example by means of a random sampling mechanism, and which are reported in the Annual Storing Notice on exports of strategic goods.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3045	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left and Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 2, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to have the Paris Agreement and the Climate Change Goals Act, as well as to take into account the climate risk for the Norwegian economy, as a framework for the further development of Norwegian petroleum activities and to limit future licence allocations to extensions or extensions of already existing production in mature areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3069	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the suspension of all granting of readmissions on Norwegian base, both through the numbered concession rounds and through the TFO scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3091	Behind the setting is the Working Party, Right, Center and Advance Party. The Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3107	Now there were several unsafe hands here, so then we take the vote again. It's important that everyone gets sharper and we get home faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3127	During the debate, Birgit Oline Kjerstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size refers to the work carried out by the Circle of the NVE and asks the government to follow up the recommendations made by the NVE regarding the drainage of the mountain plain at Åkneset.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3149	Behind the recommendation are the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red, the Left, the Green and Christian People's Party. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced support for the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3168	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 2-4, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red Proposals Nos. In the course of the debate, 3 and 4 have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 3 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the government ensure that resident law, joint stock units, apartments for limited liability companies and other households with electricity meters registered as an industrial activity are supported at the same level as other households for electricity bills, also on the December bill, and clarify the aid against the EEA rules after the aid has been paid.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: «It is recommended that the government establish a searchable pot through the House Bank for housing law, joint stock apartments and other households with electricity meters registered as an industrial activity to ensure that they immediately receive part of the electricity bill provided to other households.» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3268	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new and enhanced power package before the January power bill is issued, based on preliminary experience with the power prices.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3383	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3395	A total of two proposals were put forward during the debate, in addition to the draft representative himself, tabled by Mr Bård Hoksrud. It's proposal No 4, from Sveinung Rotevatn on behalf of Left proposal No 5, from Torgair Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that there is a thorough assessment of the proportionality of the measures taken under the infectious diseases legislation and that these assessments are made public at the same time as the measures are proposed or continued.’ The Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Left, the Red and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3421	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to keep under review amendments to the measures adopted on the protection of the disease by virtue of the requirement of the Code that coercive measures cannot be applied where, in accordance with the nature and circumstances of the case, there would otherwise be disproportionate interference.’ The Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3438	There is a vote on paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the municipalities themselves decide whether or not to authorise the use of alcohol in food-serving as long as there are strict measures to protect the infection’. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3455	It will be put to the vote on points 1 and 3 of the motion for a resolution. Point 1 of the proposal reads as follows: «The Government immediately asks the Government to remove the national prohibition of the prohibition of gifting in the third paragraph of Section 14 of the Covid-19 Regulation.» Point 3 of the proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that points of entry undertake to maintain a distance between and restrictions on the number of guests.’ The Greens and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3487	During the debate, Mr Ismail put forward the draft representative. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting the immediate lifting of a full national outburst for the outdoor industry and the opening of flexible and locally defined solutions.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-06.ana.ud191e3504	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
