ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e28	The representative, Mr Grete Wold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e33	On behalf of the representatives of Tobias Drevland Lund, Seher Aydar, Marian Hussein and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the limitation period for withdrawal of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e38	The representative of Morten Stordalen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e43	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Halleland, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I would like to propose a more effective heavy-duty vehicle control for safer roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e64	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Ola Borten Moe, Björn Schjörn and Odd Roger Enoksen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Harek Elvenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e73	Recently there has been increased Russian military activity in the Baltic Sea. Among other things, we have seen a significant increase in the presence of Russian landing vessels. Sweden has raised its military preparedness, for example through increased military presence in Gotland. The Swedish Minister of Defence has expressed considerable concern about various observations of drones over different Swedish installations. How does the State Council assess the security situation and what contact do Norwegian authorities have with Sweden and Finland regarding the worsening security situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e80	The reactions we see on the Swedish side probably point to the seriousness of the situation. Increased tension in the Black Sea region and in the Baltic Sea has led, as the representative says, to Swedish defence implementing a number of measures and adapting its preparedness. This includes increased air patrol, maritime surveillance and reinforcement of military presence in Gotland. As far as we understand it, these measures are intended to increase the understanding of the situation and signal to Russia that they are following the situation. But Sweden does not consider a Russian attack on Sweden to be probable. We have good dialogue with Sweden. We share the assessment that they're doing. We maintain dialogue in the future and follow closely what is going on, both in the Baltic Sea and in the Black Sea region, as well as that of course we also follow up on what is happening in the North, in our own area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e87	Thanks for the answer. In 2020, Norway, Sweden and Finland signed a new enhanced defence cooperation agreement. The agreement facilitates coordination and cooperation on military operations in crisis and conflict. This happens at the same time as Sweden and Finland co-operate with NATO as far as possible, without being a member. As you know, the Nordic countries have very similar security policy interests. We now see that Sweden has strengthened its military preparedness. What is needed for Norway to take reinforced military action, as we have now seen in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e94	What is needed for Norway to do the same is that we see an increasing threat to Norwegian territory. We haven't seen that so far. We've increased vigilance, we're following what's going on in the north, we're following what's going on in the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea region, and we're, of course, also following closely what's going on in areas further east of Europe. So far, a number of measures have been taken within the terms of reference of the Chief of Defence, i.e.: increased vigilance in the north and slightly increased preparedness in some demarcated areas. In addition, we have not considered it necessary to take further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e99	There will be follow-up questions – first Ine Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e104	Europe is in the most serious security policy situation since the end of the Cold War. It is an unprovoked aggression from Russia against Ukraine with significant build-up of strength at both borders to and in Ukraine. It allows Russia to attack Ukraine again, and it can happen on very short notice. Despite vigorous diplomatic efforts to avert conflict, it would be naive to believe that the danger of war is not real. Russia attacked Georgia in 2008, attacked Ukraine and annexed Crimea in 2014 and has been waging war in Ukraine for eight years. Right now, many eastern allies are expressing their clear concern about what is happening in their immediate neighbourhoods, and NATO is now planning some defensive measures on its own territory. How does the government feel that Norway can best engage in NATO in the current situation in order to continue to be a credible and predictable ally?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e111	Let me first say that I share the assessment of the tense situation we see. It is Russia that is responsible for this increased tension, and it is also Russia that is responsible for de-scaling that situation, i.e. lowering the tension by reducing its military presence. Let's hope that the diplomatic channel you're now trying to reach, because no one is worthy of any solution other than that we can solve this peacefully, diplomatically, and that it is possible for the parties to move in a direction that both parties can live in. So far, Russia has made ultimate demands that it is impossible for NATO – and for the Western nations – to meet. So let's hope that the meetings that are going to be this week will lead. Norway has a quota in Lithuania. In addition to that, we now have no plans to increase our presence in the Baltic States. If we were to get an enquiry and the situation would escalate further, of course it would have to be assessed, and then the government would also come back to Stortinget with it appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e120	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e125	I am pleased with the signals, both that the Storting will naturally be involved, and that the government has an assessment of what might come from NATO. The previous government strongly prioritised strengthening Nordic defence cooperation through NORDEFCO, all the way back to when we had the Presidency in 2014. The differences in the relationship between security policy and the countries concerned include: NATO, has not been a hindrance to it. This has resulted in many concrete things, such as: dialogue on joint operational planning, sharing of radar data, use of each other's airspace, etc. This serves Norway’s safety in several ways, including: because an increased tension in the Baltic Sea region can quickly reproduce into the northern regions. Given the developments we are now seeing, what concrete plans does the government have to further strengthen NORDEFCO and the Nordic defence and security cooperation within the framework we have in NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e135	Norway has the chairmanship of NORDEFCO this year. My ambition is to further expand and develop Nordic cooperation. It is a good initiative that has been taken, and I share the representative's assessment that there are new areas for further cooperation, such as planning, logistics and joint exercises. Now Finland also acquires F-35, which should provide common opportunities, perhaps also industrially, in that area. So my ambition and government's ambition is obviously to expand Nordic cooperation further beyond what has already been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e140	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e145	I'm going to take a slightly different angle than the previous speaker. I'll be a little bit less hawk. You have to listen to NATO, and we're actually a member of NATO, so we're going to affect NATO too, not just listen to them. Now, in June, NATO will adopt a new strategic concept. In that concept, the United States wants to remove Russia as a strategic partner. This is bad news for Norway. Will the Minister of Defence at the June meeting, or in advance of that June meeting, try to influence the United States to keep Russia as a strategic partner and, of course, keep Ukraine as a partner?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e152	That's a very good question. It is right that the new strategic concept should be decided for spring, in Madrid, where NATO, among other things. to a greater extent focus on its neighbourhood and on its home area, as it is said, in the strategic concept. I think it would be unwise to remove Russia as a strategic partner. We want the benefits and benefits of having a good dialogue. Relaxation is as important as deterrence. Having good dialogue with Russia is also one of the goals of the government. We have managed – even since 2014 – in some areas to maintain a dialogue with Russia, including in the military area. It's been important to us in the north that we've had it. It will be even more important in the future, and I think it would be wise to keep a partnership.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e159	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e164	My question goes to State Councillor Borten Moe. Norway, as one of the few countries, has free university and higher education for foreign students. Even students from countries where Norwegian students have to pay school fees are free to study in Norway. Subsidies by Norwegian taxpayers on the free study of foreign students in Norway are estimated at approximately 3.3 billion. kr every year. The party itself informed a few years ago that the actual subsidisation was about 5 billion. kr because the foreign students also receive a scholarship from the Loan Fund. They also have priority on student cabins, and in Oslo, foreign students have about 70 pst. of the student cabins. The progress party believes it is good with international students in Norway and good with an international student environment, but we believe that Norway should compete for academic attractiveness, not be at the candidate top because it is free to travel to Norway to study. We want taxpayers in this country to pay the education primarily to Norwegian students. A few years ago, Ola Borten Moe, as vice president of the Center Party, had a chronicle at Nok.no where he said it was time to introduce school money for foreign students in Norway. I would therefore like to ask Borten Moe, now the Minister of Higher Education, whether he will take the initiative to do just that, and at least make sure that Norway introduces the tuition fee for students from countries where Norwegian students themselves have to pay the tuition fee to study.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e175	Let me first give honor and honor to Gulati for having Googled old press releases about myself. It's said that sometimes you meet yourself in the door, it's used as an expression. I think it doesn't necessarily have to be negative, because one hits presumptuously a person you know well and like! [[Laughter]] That being said, the Hurdals platform states that we should continue the system under which the Progress Party has also supported and managed in the eight years of either government or responsibility for the State budget, and that is that studying in Norway should be free of charge for everyone. I also want to add that I have a great deal of sympathy for the argument that Norwegian academic institutions are going to compete over time in an international market, starting from offering high-quality education and research. That's a better starting point than competing at price. In an ideal world, there's a good starting point for taking such a discussion. Finally, in this field too, the EEA Agreement has some provisions, so we cannot introduce one set of rules for Norwegian students and another set of rules for students from other EEA countries. But the government's policy is, as I said, to continue the free principle of Norwegian higher education for all students, Norwegian as foreign students.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e184	As I mentioned in my previous post, Norway is now using about 3.3 billion. kr annually to subsidise foreign students in Norway. A few years ago, according to the NRK, Russia, China and Nepal, it was the top list of foreign students in Norway. In the attitude of the Education Committee last year, to the Communication A World of Opportunities, both the Center Party and the other Red-Green parties wrote that it was an aim to get more foreign students to Norway. My question to the Council of State is therefore: How many more billions does he think it is right for Norwegian taxpayers to spend on subsidising foreign students before considering the introduction of a tuition fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e189	It is not just a measure of several foreign students in Norway. Norwegian students going out to study are also a target to which a broad majority of the Stortinget have joined. Having foreign students here with us and our own going out into the world, I think is a very good way to get to know the world, get to know other perspectives, and not least one way to get to know yourself in a world that is increasingly global. As I said, we are going to continue the system on which there has been a broad consensus in Stortinget – i.e. the free principle of higher education in Norway. I want to distance myself from parts of the numbers that Gulati's representative is pulling up, among other things. having regard to the fact that one cannot mistreat, nor in principle, between Norwegian and Swedish students or Danish and German, as long as it is within the scope of the EEA Agreement. It's simply not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e196	There will be follow-up questions – first Himanshu Gulati.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e201	The students have rightly, in my opinion, felt like the losers after the government budget for 2022 became final. Study support is not increased. The government is proposing no more student housing than the previous government, and several election vows from the government parties have unfortunately been broken. Several student organisations have demanded that the tuition fee be linked to the basic amount of population benefit, G, and that it be increased to 1.5 G, which will be an increase from the current level of about 1 %. 1.2 G. The Progress Party has proposed the same in its alternative budget. I therefore wonder if the Council of State will accept an invitation to meet, where we are committed across political dividing lines to link the study support to the basic amount, G, and to increase it to 1.5 G for the country's students during this magnification period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e207	I would like to remind the representative Gulati that in Norway we have the perhaps most shy study funding scheme in the world. Not only is higher education free of charge for everyone, it is widely present throughout the country. We have a very good student support system, completely independent of the parent's economy, which benefits everyone. It is also the case that, through unanimous decisions in Stortinget, student support has been subject to price adjustment throughout the last 15 years. There has also been a significant escalation in the fact that the 11th month is now fully funded for all. The government has been clear that our priority is to introduce a twelfth month for adult students with child care. We think that's a proper priority. And then we have put in place important welfare schemes that make this group in the current state budget, among other things. half the price of dental health for the age groups concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e214	Himanshu Gulati – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e219	It seems to me that the Council of State will not commit to an increase of 1.5 G, as several student organisations have requested. Governments were involved in 11 months of study support. This was the last government – including the Progress Party, from 2017 to 2020 – to step up over a four-year period. In the first budget of the Workers' Party-Centre-Registration, there is little mention for the students. Especially in the case of student support, several student organisations are disappointed. Although the Council of State will not commit to an increase of 1.5 G, I would ask him if he can promise that the students will receive increased support for their studies by this government, and if he can possibly give an indication of their ambitions to increase their support for the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e224	Let me first add that the Progress Party has been under government responsibility for almost the previous eight years, and has supported the state budget in all. You don't want to find any trace of what Gulati is now proposing. We are concerned that we should have a safe and good economy for the students, but we also believe that it is quite okay to work alongside the studies. Not only is it an important reserve of labour for the nation and for everyone who lives here, it is also that there is important learning for the students, at my discretion. You get closer to work, and you get closer to the reality you have to face when you're fully educated. We're going to continue to improve the student support scheme, but the priority is going to be to focus on the annual price adjustments that always come, and then it's going to be targeted towards those groups that need it the most. The group specifically mentioned is students with care for young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e233	Himanshu Gulati – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e238	In the time of the Progress Party in government, we were just in favour of increasing the support for the study from ten to eleven months. I record that the Council of State will not promise an increase in student support for all the country's students in addition to price adjustment. My last question is about the reports that, among other things, TV 2 has come from Bergen and other places, that many of the country's students live in old and worn-out student homes. Some date back to the 1960s and have quite out-of-date facilities. My colleague Silje Hemdal has also focused on this. One of the reasons these student hubs continue to be used even if they are due is that today's grant schemes do not provide room for cleaning up old, existing student cabins, only for building new ones. I therefore wonder whether the Council of State will address this and undertake not only to increase the grant for student housing, but also to ensure that parts of the grant can go to cleaning up old student cabins that need refurbishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e247	The government has ambitious objectives of increasing the construction of student housing in Norway, up to 3000 dwellings a year. This year it is home to 1,650 new student homes. We also have a general challenge related to triggering the student residences for which money is actually granted. With regard to the problem raised by the representative Gulati, quite generous grants are provided by the state for the construction of student housing. It's to keep the rent down. Then it is that student relations must take responsibility for upgrading and maintaining their building mass on an ongoing basis, as it grows older. If we introduce a grant for the refurbishment of older student dwellings, the interactions will not have an incentive to take care of existing building masses. It's not lucky, at my discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e254	Rauand Ismail – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e259	Students who started studying in 2020 are now halfway into their Bachelor's degree and have barely experienced what it is like to have a normal study period. We also know that many students' finances are not going to go far enough. Therefore, I wonder: In addition to what the Council of State has already promised to come – delayed power loans and the continuation of what was left of last year's student crisis package – will the Council of State come up with a new crisis package and do as the students ask: introduce daily allowances for students and remove the one meter rule in educational situations? If not – why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e266	To the main entrance to the question, which is the difficult situation Norwegian students have been in related to pandemic control, I am 100 pst. Agreed. There has been a very demanding situation both for students in our school and not least for students, who now in two years have barely had a normal everyday life. I think it's hard to imagine how difficult and heavy it can be, because it's all about what it's not supposed to be about, and it's also having consequences for solitude, social isolation and lack of interaction with both the place and others. We have addressed this with quite extensive crisis packages for the students and the relationships, and it is now under treatment in Stortinget. What I have to offer in my field are arrangements through the Loan Fund, so ask the representative about the daily allowance, it is with another State Council. So far, Stortinget has not been willing to open up a daily allowance for students.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e273	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e279	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea. First of all, I would just like to say that I think it is very good that the new government has extended the work area to the Minister of Fisheries to sea too, that one simply sees fishing as part of the sea, that one sees it together. It's very positive. Yesterday, a press release from the government announced that 53 new extraction permits have been granted to the oil industry. As stated in the press release, this is a search round in the most mature areas of the Norwegian base. It will involve both seismic investigation, search drilling, extraction, etc. in these areas. In the press release, there is not a single word about fish. This is an area such as: Includes the Egg Border, close to the border of a well-known Norwegian fishing area, Tromsøflaket, contact with the ground of Mallang, which is a very important fishing area for large parts of Troms and Finnmark and parts of Nordland, and it is spawning ground for mackerel and sandeel. It goes right into what should be the point of a government council in this field, that one should fence around the areas that are decisive for Norwegian fishing, so that one does not do anything to ruin Norwegian fisheries. I haven't seen anything else from the fisheries authorities, from the trade unions, that they're opponents of the expansion of ever-new search areas. These are directorates and trade unions on the Council of State's territory. Does the Council of State see the problem in a fisheries and maritime policy perspective that oil is being supplied in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e290	First, I would like to stress that the question of oil exploration, TFOs, which is the main entrance to the question from the representative of Fylkesnes, lies within the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy. That being said, it is important for me to state that, for the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, it is absolutely essential that fisheries interests are respected, regardless of the kind of other industries in the sea. The fact that you're taking a new TFO round is hardly surprising to this assembly. What has already been clarified is that there is not going to be a new concession round, but exploring further in mature areas is part of the government's policy that I believe has a wide opening up in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e297	I hang myself very much in the grip of ‘mature area’, that the Council of State in the field of fisheries only adopts it. Mature for who? The Council of State is responsible for fisheries. This is a rich area for fishing. It's a fishing area. Several have also defined it as a fish field. This is the spawning area for mackerel and tobis. Tobis has already been challenging quite a lot in the North Sea, but now there are additional challenges for a key population of Norwegian fishing. The council says it's outside of his constitutional responsibility, but what I think is wrong. The Minister for Fisheries is responsible for fisheries. These are decisions directly applicable to fishing. You cannot point to any other government here that takes responsibility for your fishing. Then the question is, does the Council of State see this as problematic at all? Have any calculations been made by his department as to what consequences this will have for Norwegian fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e304	We have a long and good story where the biggest findings are about us being reasonably good at coexistence in our country. This is the basis for us being able to develop a world-leading petroleum industry while last year we set a new record in maritime food exports. We have a good administration that interacts well. My responsibility is to ensure that fisheries have the opportunities for development they need. Over the past 50 years, we have developed a marine industry that contributes heavily to lighting in the houses, to jobs in coastal communities and to two thirds of maritime food exports. Yes, it's important to be the leader where, it's important to be careful, but I think we've shown through a long history that industries can coexist in our marine areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e309	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e314	I have to say I'm disappointed in the answer, so Norway is so insanely good at coexistence. Where did one of them come from? We know that it was devastating for the sandeel population last one opened up for search in the North Sea. It was in the middle of a very important spawning ground for the tobis population. We know how other types of activities at sea also affect, whether it's military activity outside Andy Island, or there's farming activity along the coast. We know that this affects. There's a lot of reports about it. That co-existence is not a problem for it would marine life in the sea, is wrong. We're not there in Norway that we can just put in all the possible activity, and then it gets no consequence. Finally, the question is whether the Council of State will carry out a survey in consultation with fisheries policy authorities, the authorities, on the implications for fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e319	First, if the representative wants to quote me from what I said, I would ask him that I be represented on what I actually said. I have never suggested that we are insanely good at coexistence. I spoke quite differently. It's also like if we look back, we have many good examples of how we get coexistence to work well, but we also have examples that it doesn't work. We have to learn from that, but basically I want to say that we're good at it, and it's a competence, a knowledge and a culture that I want us to work on. Then there is probably a distance between SV and the government parties related to how to look at the future of Norwegian oil and gas industries. The government has determined that we want to develop – not liquidate – and build new industries on the shoulders of the oil and gas industries. It's probably like when we're making up the state budget, we don't just have to make sure that the expenditure goes to – we're also going to have enough industries to have a revenue page that goes along with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e326	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e331	The main source of income for Norway historically has our fisheries, and there is clearly a large difference between the SV and the government party. We want to fence if they wanted to marine the species in the sea. Everything suggests that it will be much more important for Norway’s income in the foreseeable future if one manages to make a viable use of it. That's why we're so hard on it. So there's one thing that's very similar to this one, that's about using the ocean. This is a project that was set down by the former government council in the area, the Ingredient from the Right, where he later saw that there was a great conflict about the use of the sea on the coastline and the fjord lines. One with today's legislation may grant exemptions to large shrimp boats with 700 nets, so that they can enter e.g. Breivikfjorden, South Island, for fishing. As a result, the smallest boats are being pushed out and winter fishing destroyed for them. The public was interested in simply inserting a hard destination against it in connection with the regulation. Why has today's Council of State stopped that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e338	To the representative of Knag Fylkesnes on the ambitions of the Norwegian fishing industry, I can only say that I fully share it. We can create more. Norwegian fisheries could contribute more to the community in the future. But I am also absolutely sure that we need to develop new industries in the sea. We all know that the oil age is at some point over, and then we have to be able to take advantage of the opportunities for other industries in the sea. We can provide more climate-friendly food for a growing world population, we can create more energy from the sea. The possibilities are great. I have been given a great responsibility to present and develop nutrient plans for the Norwegian sea areas. It's a work that we're going to do. I have a very clear position on the question of hailing, and that is that competition is okay even when you are in the field, but competition must be in the same weight class. So hailing and ensuring that the coastal fleet has access to the fjords alone when it pulls fish into the fjords, is important to me, and it's a work I'm also going to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e347	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e353	That's exactly what I want to get some more information about the Storting. It is this work that was started by Ingreichsen, where one saw that the coastal fleet was pushed by the large seagoing vessels because one had granted a derogation so that they could go into the fjords to fish with a completely different type of capacity, i.e. 700 nets. The size can only imagine the effect it has and the likely damage done to the coastal cod, which has had a significant impact on the export value of Norwegian fish. The same thing with the damage it does to coastal communities, which have a fleet that is much smaller, which depends on these areas, especially in winter, where they are increasingly forced to go further into the sea, with the security challenges it has, including for value creation. Finally, even a Right State Council was completely overconfident that this could not continue. Why in all the world does a derogation exist when such a type of vessel can so dive into the rocks? Now we should have clear rules and no exemptions. The government announced that it would come in connection with the allowance adjustment for 2022, but this council did not. This state council stops it. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e362	It's not like this Council of State is stopping it. We must have a system of bartering where the smallest fleet has the first right to fish in the areas most suitable for the smallest fleet. Some reason why we also have a large seagoing fleet is that it can also collect these resources when there are no fish available nearby, and to ensure that our industry can have access to raw materials throughout the year. So I'm concerned about what's going on here. I think that going as far as there can be no exemption is something we need to look at, because the goal is also that the whole quota should be fished out. I fully share Mr. Knag Fylkesnes's view that the smallest vessels must have a clear priority right and that it should only be when there are particular reasons for dispensing the larger fleet from entering the fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e371	Linda Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e376	I'm following up where the representative of the County left off. Norway has very high ambitions for the sustainable marine economy, protection and use of the sea, not least following the initiative of former Prime Minister Erna Solberg. But we also have conflicting interests that stand up to each other. That is why I was happy when I saw that we were going to have our own sea minister. What is still a little unclear is how the Constitutional Responsibility of the Minister of the Sea actually is – and we hear that from the answers given to the representative of Fylkesnes. For concrete reasons, what role has the Minister of the Sea overarching to address challenges that will arise across different disciplines? And is that how to understand that the Minister of the Sea has the overall administrative responsibility for these clarifications?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e381	Liability as Minister of the Sea can be expressed in several ways. Two of them are firstly that I am specifically responsible for coordinating the development of green shipping, and the second is that I have a responsibility to develop the nutrient plans for the North Sea, the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. It does not lift sectoral responsibility, but it gives me a coordinating responsibility in those areas. The list is not inexhaustible. The two most important areas that I'm working on are just this. I think we're just going to take over, and we've probably done that a long time ago, that even though our marine areas are five to six times as large as the land areas, we shouldn't dream away and think that we're avoiding land conflicts and different industrial interests that run into each other in the marine areas. We have to live with that. We have to do that in a good way, and it's a responsibility that I know very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e388	Alfred Jens Bjørlo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e393	I want to continue where the main question starts, namely, that we have a sea minister who is said to have a more holistic responsibility for the sea, but who, in the opinion of the Left, is going to slip away as soon as there are concrete issues that we have to actually make these important deviations for the marine environment, for fish resources and for fishermen. I find that we are not getting a good response to the new extraction methods for oil. I want to challenge the Council of State on another matter. It is the question that Norway, as one of the few countries in the world, allows the dumping of mining waste into the sea. A comprehensive fishery and aquaculture industry is now strongly calling on the government not to grant the permits in the Fördefjord until the impact on fishing is significantly better mapped than today. They have asked the government for a meeting. The Council of State says that he will always stand up for fishing. Will the Council of State at least say yes to meeting a comprehensive fishery and aquaculture industry to elucidate the problems associated with the dumping of mining waste in the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e400	I have almost weekly meetings with stakeholders in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. There are good meetings, where we have an agenda that both the ministry, the state councils and the fisheries organisations are involved in influencing. So those meetings will continue in the usual way. It's not to slip away, which is the word usage suggests here, but I think we're going to fence that it's the constitutionally responsible state council that answers the Storting to concrete issues that are being raised. At least it's an approach that I'm not going to challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e407	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e412	I'm going to take up the student situation. Before Christmas, I met the students' representatives in Bergen, Trondheim and Kristiansand to listen to their recordings, taking into account the very special situation in which we are all in, which students have also been in, and continue to stand in. The students describe in the meeting with me how living with great limitations has gone beyond study progress, social life and the ability to participate in a normal study period. What they say should worry more than me. With increased vaccination rates and a milder virus variant, the government has signalled that the corona measures are being facilitated. That's good, but at the same time we hear that the introduction of normal education and normal attendance for the students is waiting. The students have been hit hard under the pandemic. Many have been sitting alone on small shelves, and many have lost their jobs. Studies show that almost half of the students experience severe psychiatric symptoms, less professional benefits in digital education, and two out of three students have reduced the provision of education. It's a heavy and demanding situation for a lot of our students. So getting the students back on campus is very important, and it's urgent, because now both the students and all the employees in the education sector need a normal everyday life. Normality is not only reassuring, but it also provides better professional benefits and social conditions where friendship and close ties can develop. Throughout the pandemic, universities and colleges have shown that they are good at infectious diseases. While high school and adult education after considerable pressure are now finally back at green level and do not need to relate to 1 meter, it is strange that the government recommends continuing to keep a distance from universities and colleges. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: in view of the long-standing, difficult situation for the students, has the Council of State intended to take active action to ensure that students return to campus as soon as possible? And in that case, what kind of grip is the Council of State going to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e425	When it comes to understanding reality and describing it, I'm going to split up what Raja's representative is dealing with. There is no doubt that this has been a very demanding situation both professionally and socially for many of the country's students. That is why I was very pleased when we changed the legislation last Friday. Campus has never been closed in this round, but we then presented a clear expectation that the students will now return to campus. All students shall be offered physical attendance and physical training. As far as I know, universities and colleges are already doing this, from this week on, and my clear expectation as the responsible state council is that universities and colleges will follow up. My clear impression is to the extent that they do. I feel that there is great impatience in the sector, both from the teaching side and from the student side, in order to get started and get a daily life that is more normal than it has been. Then we're not quite back to normal yet. There are still some limitations. There are still recommendations to keep a distance, and of course there is a recommendation to pursue education within a responsible infectious disease prevention framework. I think that's natural at the time we're in the pandemic now. Hopefully, our health services will make recommendations in the future that will allow us to take back an even more normal everyday life. In that case, I am very pleased. I think both myself and the representative Raja and the rest of the room are crossing their fingers and everything else, so that in not too long, we all get a normal everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e435	It is good to hear that the council shares the situation description, but my question was whether he had intended to take some active grip to make sure to bring them back to campus, and what kind of grip. I didn't get that, anyway. You can ask questions about whether it really makes sense that it is now easier for students to gather in pubs than in a colloquium or in a lecture hall. We in the Left support pub decoration, but it should be a paradox – also for the Council of State – that it is easier to drink beer together than to study together. And if you're going to take the real signs of the contagion people, the students of the groups that are least at risk when they gather, that is, 20-year-olds with a double vaccine. So to take another concrete question, when will the Council of State provide as much physical education as possible, even where it is impracticable to keep one meter away?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e442	All of them first: now Raja is deep down in the infectious recommendations that the government has based its rounds on in the last round. Of course, the representative is free to do so, but I would also like to remind him that his own government largely built up the measures that were taken – measures that were not less invasive – on exactly the same infectious diseases professional advice that this government is using. What I was trying to figure out was that we've already taken steps to get students back on campus, precisely because we share the reality of the fact that it's hugely important. It was presented at the end of last week, and as far as I know, that job has already started. There is a clear expectation from the government that all students in Norway should have part of their study offer related to physical attendance and normal interaction between teachers and students. Finally, there are exceptions to the recommendations we have made to the sector, which allow for deviations from the 1 meter where necessary. It is handled by the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e451	Abid Raja – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e456	If I were a state councillor, I think I'd be a little careful to compare with the previous situation, when no one in the world had any experience with the corona virus, when it hit a whole world in a very extreme way, and when we didn't have any vaccination, as we have now. The previous infection situation, the delta variant and the mutant virus that emerged, and the current situation, with omicron – as we know is much milder – and a vaccination rate in Norway that we know is extremely high, I do not think are entirely comparable situations. What I miss is a state council that actually fights for the students' cause and targets this. But I don't get any answers to any of the questions I've asked, whether the Council of State intends to take any active action, both to help them back on campus and to facilitate as much physical education as possible. Is it correctly understood that the Council of State has not itself intended to take any active action to ensure that what I have addressed in these questions is achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e463	With regard to the introduction to the last question, we are at full speed into a health-care discussion related to pandemic management. Then there's another government council other than me that's going to stand here and answer that. But it is an undeniable fact that, as a government, we base the measures that now apply on the same health advice that Raja and the previous government used. There's no doubt about it. So to the next, if that's how I haven't taken any active grip: yes, that's what I'm trying to convey. It's possible that I'm bad at speaking, but we opened up significantly in the university and higher education sector last week, i.e. five days ago. There is a clear expectation presented to all universities and colleges, both from the government and from me as State Council, that it should be organised for physical attendance and education at all the country's institutions and campuses. It is also the case that all pupils and students at individual level should have all or part of their physical education. [[President clubs]] It is also such that there is a possibility of exemption from the 1 metre if it is sound... [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e470	The President has been kind today, but will ask people to stick to the speaking time. Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e477	I think we all share the concern about the high price that children and young people have paid, both socially and professionally, under the pandemic. I agree that it is important that both students at school and young people at the university are given the opportunity to come back, but what we also need is a plan for how to help these young people over time. This has been pointed out in several technical reports and research reports. It is pointed out in the first report of the Corona Commission. There is now a coal coming from high school that has had two years during the pandemic and is now going to start at universities and colleges for the autumn. So my question is whether the government will plan how young people and children can be followed up over time, both socially and professionally, to deal with the deep wounds that the pandemic has created for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e484	I think the representative Sanner is quite right that we're going to draw with us the late effects of this pandemic for quite a long time. Many people have lived in an exceptional situation, not only children and young people, but of course students as well. Some people even claim that there are quite a number of adults who have lived in an exceptional situation, which is now soon extending over a period of two years. I think the most important thing is that we manage to get rid of the pandemic and get into a situation that looks a little like the normal I see we all want to get back to. To take my field, which I can answer on behalf of: the recording, or the proposal, to make a plan to have an overall overview, both related to the status and challenges, and to what measures you can possibly take from the community to contribute as far as advice is concerned, I think it's a good and constructive input, which I'm going to take back from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e491	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e496	Earlier this month, new export figures showed adventurous figures for Norwegian exports of seafood in 2021. In total, Norway exported 3,1 million tonnes of seafood to a value of more than 120 billion. kr. The farm was 71 pst. of the export value, while the volume was 44 pst. The potential for growth is also enormous, especially in the case of aquaculture. If we do the right thing here, we can increase production many times by 2050. Right is very concerned that we are able to trigger the enormous potential we have, that the industry can also in future create enormous values, produce good and healthy food and maintain Norway's position as the second largest exporter of seafood. If we are to do this, we must facilitate growth, development and modernisation. At the same time, we need to manage the various fish health and environmental challenges facing industry, such as salmon, waste challenges and land conflicts. On Monday 7 December 2020, Professor Ragnar Tveterås of the University of Stavanger presented the report ‘Value Creation Potential and Roadmaps for Marine Agriculture’. This and other reports show that marine potential and potential are very high. The Solberg Government has been very clear that a desire to facilitate aquaculture at sea and has worked well over several years to lay the foundation for a regulatory basis. Such new legal work takes time, and the legal framework is not yet in place. Justly, most relevant laws also apply in the Norwegian economic zone, but it is necessary to have specific rules that are specifically adapted to marine farming. The question to the Council of State is therefore: Can the Council state what time does such a regulatory basis — or legislation, if one is willing — come into place, and at least what timetable will it be worked on?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e509	This is an important area. The marine industry is important for Norway. It provides high value creation, and it provides jobs in District Norway. If we are to achieve the growth that the government wants, and as I see a broad political majority in this Chamber want, we must increase sustainability. One element of it will be the success of marine aquaculture. That is why we are already working on a new regime for marine aquaculture. It's a work that has a high priority. I can give a timeline on that work when we have come up with something further. For me, it has been important to get that work going as quickly as possible, and I am satisfied that it has already started.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e517	For aquaculture, it is important to get this in place as quickly as possible, for many reasons. Several of the breeding companies are already in operation, but in order to continue their activity, business operators need to be able to run and clear-cut. They are now facing large investments without fully knowing the rules and framework conditions that will apply to this type of activity. So I'm not happy that the Council of States can't give a time horizon today. The question is therefore: In order not to lose out on time and position in the industry, is the government prepared to establish a temporary permit scheme until a final one comes into place?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e524	It is good to hear that impatience has increased since going from government position to opposition, for this is a work that had not started when I sat in the Council of State chair. It's going on now, so we've changed the pace. I want to make as high progress as possible so that this can be put into place, and that marine farming can get started. So, within what is defined as production areas, good opportunities already today to try out aquaculture in far more open areas than what we have traditionally had. It actually happens when we speak, so it's not like we're completely stuck. But I'm speeding up. I will also be able to inform the Storting properly when we have a schedule, and this work has a high priority for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e529	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Linda Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e534	We would have liked to have yes or no if the Council of State wanted to initiate temporary authorisations for marine aquaculture. Then I would also like to ask about the conflicting interests that the Council of State is now trying to reconcile. The fishing industry contributes to over 18 000 farms along our coast, and they now experience, we hear, that their fishing areas are under pressure. Not least we also saw it in the consultation on the allocation of sea winds. Now we know that the government is delayed in view of the announcement of internal disagreement in the government about the cable, but that now requires wisdom to ensure the coexistence we depend on in order not to lose that value creation potential. So how has the Minister followed up the work of the Marine Wind Cooperation Forum? And is he also following up the work of a maritime dialogue forum to ensure closer dialogue between coastal communities, businesses, knowledge environments and decision-makers on maritime and coastal issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e543	We're gonna make sure we have good dialogue. We also have very good dialogue between the departments responsible for this area. In the meetings I have had with the fishing industry, it has been pointed out several times that they also have bad experience. They felt little cared for related to one of the projects that the previous government landed, so there is a job to do to ensure good coexistence. We also have an approach in which we want to check whether marine wind and marine farming areas can overlap, and that we can also get that to where we have common infrastructure, where we ensure that we also have a smaller set of land. But the concern for fishing industry will always be important, and my goal is not to get into the situation that the previous government did, that there are still very bad examples of poor interaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e548	Geir Jørgensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e553	Interestingly, the same government that is now distributing 53 new oil drilling permits, at the same time, is in favour of a large-scale sea-window construction, with the climate argument in the front row. Both of these bets are taking off the sea. The same thing makes plans to use 56 000 km 2 for new shooting areas. At the top of this is the plans for aquaculture at sea. It is often heard that industry and those who have invested have to be given predictability, and then the question is asked to the Council of State: when all these land-intensive plans appear to be realized, where is the predictability of the traditional conventional whitefish industry, which loses the area plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e563	For me, it is absolutely essential that we be able to maintain the traditional whitefish industry when developing new industries and when other interests related to the sea come into being. I think we have a good starting point – we have a good governance and a strong tradition to achieve coexistence. But we also have examples of how bad it is when that coexistence is not exercised. In the government we have a very good dialogue and a good cooperation across the different departments that are responsible. In my role as Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, it is difficult for me that we have to be able to do this in the best possible way, so that we do not overstep the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e568	Geir Jørgensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e573	I thank you for the answer and will now go to what was the main question from the representative Olve Grotle, about aquaculture at sea. Now we've got the first offshore marine installations, for example. a farm in Hadsel, Northern Ireland, where there has been a very high mortality rate in the two outposts – almost 30 pst. This is a big problem for not just offshore aquaculture, but for the whole industry. In 2020, 52 million dead salmon were registered in this industry. These are numbers from the Veterinary Institute. At the same time, we read in the Hurdal platform that the government is opening up to consider more criteria for the traffic light system, which today is solely about salmonmus. Will mortality be a criterion in a new system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e580	We will evaluate several criteria. What is about fish health will be an important criterion to consider for us. But the requirements for what should be criteria in the traffic light system are quite high. They have to be able to operate in a system that has to have objectivity, and it has to be measurable, so there is a lot of work to do in order to be able to land what is to be the new criteria in the traffic light system. But to me, it is absolutely essential that what is the most important system we have to ensure that future growth comes in those areas where the environmental impact is acceptable is further developed. We need to be sure that there is a system that works, that all parties can deal with, that is fair, that makes us achieve the goal of sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e586	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e591	Reconstruction of the Defense was one of the main initiatives of the government of the Progress Party, and the acquisition and phase-in of new material and weapon systems was carried out in all defence sectors. In addition, a number of reforms and restructuring were initiated internally in many defence departments. The maritime defence carries out a general assembly when the vessel is to be put into operational operation. It gives status to the ship and to crew and equipment. The same has been done in other parts of the Defense. The size is being informed today by the government and the Chief of Defence's annual report. It only gives piecely and divided insights into the total capabilities and needs of the defence. Brigademønstringer will clearly demonstrate the capabilities of the defence, and the Stortinget will be better informed in terms of material, personnel, organisation and objectives. A general muster will detect any defects and will be clear and be able to be corrected. It will be useful for the work of the Storting and, at the same time, provide the now-reduced Defence Commission with an opportunity to assess the status of future needs and plans. The security policy situation in Europe is today more challenging than it is for a long time, and it is essential to demonstrate that the defence capabilities and capabilities are in line with the assumptions of the Storting. A general term will also show where the shortcomings are, and it will also show whether you need extra funding for the defence to achieve the goals you have set. Today there is no such mechanism. It goes from budget to budget and revised budget, but the targets do not necessarily have to be met, and there will be no extra money to achieve the objectives set. It's very unfortunate. My question to the Council of State is: does he see the need to make a general model throughout the defence, and will he take the initiative to implement this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e604	That's a good question to ask. The defence sector is governed by long-term plans to be made for four years at a time, where investments are decided by the Storting at the end of a period, in order to be carried out in the next period. There's this council of states of the opinion that there's a system that's a little small to also take care of the need for changes that come along, lag or things that you see need to be adjusted. It is one of the reasons why the government is now aiming to promote a cause for the Storting early in this period, precisely in order to be able to see whether it is necessary to make adjustments, but of course also to promote the changes that this government has announced in the Hurdal platform, for the Stortinget, where it is necessary to go to Stortinget with that kind of thing. To the question of getting an overall assessment of the status of the sector: it is a major effort to do so. However, the security policy situation is absolutely necessary both for the defence, for the Storting and for the government to have a good overview of the situation at all times, and what changes may be appropriate to make. So if we don't call it a general monastery, I'm at least prepared to assess the need or possibilities to report to the Storting in an even better way than what is usually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e611	Thank you to the Council of State for a very wise and sensible answer. I have an additional question that goes into one of the same things, and that kind of just shows that it's such a need. This applies to the Northern Norway Brigade, which has been fed to materials in different categories for several years, but there are several projects that have been exposed, and it is therefore difficult to find answers to material status. What I want to know is what is the actual material status. I would think that a general lady would reveal what material status is, and then I wouldn't have to ask this question, but I'm asking it now, when not such a muster has taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e618	I cannot immediately answer what is material status in Brigade Nord, as the representative asks. I should be allowed to come back to that, if necessary. Having a good follow-up to the long-term plan and the investments adopted is, of course, a heavy responsibility both in the defence sector and in the ministry. I can assure the representative of that. One of my responsibilities is to follow up the decisions taken in Stortinget and to implement them in line with the wishes of Stortinget. It does not exempt me, the ministry, the defence sector or the Stortinget from making re-priorities or adjustments when one sees that it might be necessary. There is also an opportunity in the annual investment proposition, which is presented to the Spring Storting and where the status of the acquisitions being made is also reported.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e625	It opens for follow-up questions – first the Haarek Rivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e630	In 2013, when the government took over Solberg, the Maritime Defense was in a very serious situation. Vessels were at berth, crews were missing, spare parts were missing, parts were picked from individual ships and used on others. The word cannibalisation has been used about the situation in which the Maritime Defense was. In the state budget in 2016, the government granted Solberg approx. Three hundred and thirty million. kr for exceptional maintenance of maritime defence vessels. This also dripped into the maritime industry, and then Minister of Defense, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, said that this was a win-win situation, i.e. it served both the Maritime Defense and many local industrial companies. The question to the Council of State is: What positive effects do the Council of State see of the intensified maintenance carried out by the government of Solberg, which has continued in two long-term plans? Does the current government intend to continue the high maintenance effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e639	It is a fact that there has been a significant strengthening of defence in recent years, and I have in various contexts given credit to the previous government for addressing some challenges with a lag that has been in the defence sector for many years. This government has the ambition to strengthen it further. It's clearly signaled in the Hurdal platform, and it's also shown in the budget for 2022, which is strengthened in relation to what the previous government put forward, so it's obviously our ambition for the future. The representative of Rivers is well-known that we are facing very large investments in the future. It's submarines, it's the maritime fleet, it's helicopter, it's tanks. We have many areas in which to make material acquisitions. Nevertheless, it is at least as important to maintain and take care of the equipment we have. It also provides opportunities for industry to cooperate extensively between the defence sector and the Norwegian industry. We also want to facilitate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e646	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e651	We're still in a pandemic. Fortunately, leave falls, and more people come to work. It is now important to continue the work of the Solberg Government on the ‘Learn All Life’ competence reform in order to ensure that we have the right skills in place, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the years to come. The NHO competence survey reports that six out of ten member enterprises lack labour with the right skills. So it's urgent. We need to make it possible for individuals to choose to take education and that there are enough relevant and flexible training services that can be combined with work. The first has been addressed by making the Loan Fund more accessible to adults who want to take education. The second is to make it easier for institutions to set up self-paid post-graduate education aimed at workers. Changes in the ability to re-use the content of regular study offers to develop self-payment education offers have been important to make it easier to put in place more services. However, this week the Council of State notified that they had notified the changes to the self-payment regulation that were due to enter into force from 1 January of this year is deferred until next year. It's interesting to know more about the assessments that have been made behind this decision, which means that a chooser is postponing new rules on self-payment. Could the Council of State explain the possible changes the government considers related to the self-payment regulation and further whether parts of the regulatory changes dealing with the possibility of reusing educational arrangements can be implemented as planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e662	I think we all share the goal of both flexible education courses, the ability to connect to and pursue continuing education for good adult age groups later in the education cycle, and the mobilising of a larger part of the population related to closing the gaps in skills that we are clearly going to have in the Norwegian society in the future. It is also a topic that is very high on my agenda, and which we have already taken a number of decisions to put in place, including: reopening of the Nesna campus and a significant escalation in the specialisation of nurses and the number of nurses in general. With regard to the regulation to which the representative refers, it is my impression that the work of the previous government was speeding up. We have received a great deal of feedback from the sector that it is difficult to deal with, and that it could actually work counterproductively in relation to the own-payment charges. There are things that we need to consider, and look at, before we might choose to implement the regulation as it existed from the previous government, or we choose to make changes to it at the next turn. We have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e670	I am not surprised that the sector does not have a bad time, but I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State does not have a bad time, for business, where one has workers who do not have the right skills, are the ones who report this need. Then it's thoughtful that the first government is doing is postponing something that could challenge the university and higher education sectors to open up this kind of education. Because today there are too few continuing training services aimed at business needs, and they need to move through both small and large flexible programmes that can be combined with work and family life. Norwegian working life places high demands on the knowledge and competence of workers. That's also one of our foremost advantages. We must then provide for the possibility of up-to-date and formalised competences, and there must be an offer that hits everyone. It is urgent, even in the university and higher education sectors, so I would like to ask the Council of State: how will the government ensure that higher education becomes available to people who are already at work and that universities and higher education institutions can facilitate the creation of educational facilities for those who are at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e677	I am extremely uncertain whether the regulation adopted by the previous government would have worked according to the purposes set out by the representative here. I believe, on the contrary, that there is a pretty great chance that it could have been counterproductive, and that it would have been given a smaller range of exactly the educational courses and training mechanisms that are requested here. However, there is something that the government and I need to go a little deeper into and evaluate, and that is why we chose to postpone this amendment. Otherwise, as far as the more general problem is concerned, we have announced a full review of the Law on Higher Education. We're going to go through the funding system. I think the funding system for the sector is going to be very central to how to achieve the goals and needs of society for continuing education. Then, of course, it's also about looking at both the dimensioning and the configuration of our systems for higher vocational education and the vocational education system. All those things are announced in the Hurdal platform, and all those things are going to be presented to the Stortinge in the next year and the year after.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e684	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e698	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Bjørna Moxnes to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion. Question 3, from the representative Ingerd Schou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative Hege Bae Nyholt to the Minister for Culture and Equal Opportunities, has been transferred to the Minister for Children and Family, who is directly responsible. Question 17, from the representative of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, Mr Steffensen, has been withdrawn. Question 18, from the representative of Ingunn Foss to the Minister of Justice and Defence, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e718	This question, from Bjørna Moxnes to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e723	‘In the election campaign, the Workers’ Party presented a 100-day plan with 40 proposals that the current Prime Minister’s party would work to bring forward a new government within 100 days. On 22 January, the Støre-regierung has been sitting for 100 days. Parts of the plan have been implemented, while several points have been followed up only partially or poorly. There are several points that should have been implemented. How will the Prime Minister ensure the action needed to comply with the 100-day plan, and when will the Prime Minister see that the 100-day plan will be fulfilled?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e730	I thank you for the question and the opportunity to talk about the Labour Party's policy. As the representative of Moxnes is probably aware, it is the Hurdal platform – which the government has presented to the Stortinget – that we must govern. There the representative naturally finds the Workers' Party and the Center's most important things. I would like to talk about how the government has spent the first 100 days. For example, we have promised fairer taxes, where those who have the most have to pay more in taxes, including that we should protect them with revenues below NOK 750000. That's what the promise has to do with hold. We promised a double of the union deduction. We have put forward that, it is agreed by Stortinget that it will be implemented. We also promised an increase in the commuting deduction, so that the equity would go down to NOK 15 000 – but here I am forced to report that we are overfulfilling. And the fact is, it's even lower, it's $14,000, which is a thousand more than what we actually promised. It means something to the wallet, it means something to the everyday expenses of a lot of ordinary lives around the country. The same also applies to reduced kindergarten prices, with DKK 2800, which are also proposed and agreed in the Stortinget. It means more justice, that means more social distribution. It shows very clearly that the country has received a labor party-led government, which has also given the country a new course. In my own field there have also been important changes. The big business in the world of work is in progress. The proposal to remove the general aspect of temporary additions has been submitted. The proposal to reintroduce collective redress is right around the corner, it's coming soon. The proposal to streamline the use of hired labour is now out of the question. It's the same thing about strengthening the right to a full-time job, which we've also been listening to. Together with our friends in SV, we've also been freed from the unsocial cuts from the Right and their friends. We have reinstated the holiday money for the unemployed. We have straightened up again cut in the spectacle support for children. We have also prevented people on the redundancy scheme from falling out of the pandemic scheme. Today is Wednesday, and on Saturday the government has a seat for 100 days. This government is working full weeks, so here it can still come deliveries in the form of suggestions. But the real changes are those that are being made near people across the country – and that they can see that there is now a clear new direction for the country, that it is a government that has different priorities than Erna Solberg, which made the richest even richer. I believe that I can, on behalf of the Prime Minister, promise that this government will continue to influence its work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e743	You have to listen to self-crust, it comes from the heart. Red supports many of the points in the 100-day plan, and it is good that the government makes good suggestions, last but not least to bring the crew agencies out of the construction sites around Oslofjord – important. But then many are impatient. In the fall, the left-hand side made a record choice with a historically strong majority for a new and fairer course for the country, as it says in the Hurdal platform. There are 100 mandates behind the shift, which the government could mobilise to a greater extent in order to ensure the effectiveness of cleaners, taxi drivers – for all those who need dental reform and strong common well-being across the country. So the question is, how will the government use the large majority to ensure more force and clearer direction throughout the period?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e748	I have to admit that this thing also came from the brain, but it can happen that the heart was involved, because it's clear that these are things that matter to a lot of people around our country. Then I have to remind you that Red was the only party that went to the election that they wouldn't be in government, that they wouldn't have power, that they wouldn't have responsibility. So it's like the government is executive, you know, Moxnes, and it's in the exercise of the power of action, in being able to work out and make suggestions that mean something for ordinary lives around the country. We've shown that we do, we've shown it in the central area, we've shown that we're following up a lot of what makes up the 100-day plan. And I remind you that there are still a few days left to deliver part of what the representative asks for. When the representative himself says that there are some things in the 100-day plan he can support, I thought it was a pleasure. I hope that other party can do that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e755	Red puts power and influence ahead of positions. That's our position. We want to make a big change in Norway and want to push and push the government in the right direction to bring about the change that a large majority has voted for in the autumn elections. An example of this is the promises made by several teams about free dental health – here only a few years old get 50 pst. Discount – and it is by redistributing from those who buy the most expensive electric cars to those who live in parts of the country without any real possibility of using an electric car. Yesterday, Støre was quoted in the VG as saying that it was never the goal to achieve all the 100-day plans. But election vows that are concrete and have a deadline are mandatory. So how will the government make proposals on those points that were not prioritised in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e760	The representative from Red must of course think that position is irrelevant, but position also has something to do with power. I only record that the Red Party has chosen to choose that they will not take the responsibility of exercising power – that of sitting in government, drafting proposals and submitting them, as the Labour Party and the Central Party have done a lot in cooperation with the Swedish Government. As I said, Saturday is our 100-day date. This means that we can assume that there are some other things that will be delivered in the next few days. It has been important for me and everyone else who has had the 100-day plan at hand – he has distributed and been dedicated to having him implemented – and not least for all those who have accepted him and have had expectations for us, that this is something we are going to give priority to. I can make sure that we do that. It also shows the Hurdal platform. The majority of what is in the 100-day plan will be reflected in the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e770	‘The Government has notified the reintroduction of collective redress rights for trade unions in the event of illegal rental. This means that both members and non-members may experience that the union is going to court on the basis of their employment. Does the Council see any problems in the fact that a trade union can take legal action on behalf of someone who may not want to do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e777	Studies indicate that there is a breach of the rules on living quarters in parts of the world of work. Such offences are unfortunate, not only for the individual worker, but may also have social consequences. There is some reason why the government has warned that collective legal rights for trade unions should be reintroduced in the same way that that court previously found. The proposal is part of a comprehensive policy to promote fixed additions, directly in the enterprises, to strengthen organised labour and to fight down social dumping and labour-life crime. It is the peculiar imbalance of power that exists in the relationship between one that is rented, on the one hand, and the tenancy and manning agency on the other, which also contributes to creating the need for collective redress. These are employees who like to have short-term contracts, and who, in fear of losing new jobs, may be anxious to deal with issues related to violations of rules or health, the environment and security are not adequately cared for. At least I've met people who have told me that they've hesitated to mention that they want to do union work, because they've been hired, and they've been afraid to lose a job if it was known in the company that they want more people to be organized. We also know that few of the residents are organized, and it can be demanding in many ways to go to court on their own. I don't think we can expect illegal tenants to be challenged by unorganised people with short-term tenants who are concerned about their contract. As far as the representative Molberg is concerned, I would like to stress that we are well aware of the argument that not everyone who is hired necessarily wants an action on their own living conditions. Of course, we have also considered this. However, if we want rules here, it is a matter of course. that the use of hired persons has an impact on the entire working life. Collective legal proceedings shall concern and exercise the interests of the individual lessee in a specific case. It's about the seventh and last thing about what kind of work we want, and not least about being able to protect the individual from being in such a situation, which can be a very stressful situation. You must not forget that such a rule will be taken as an advantage for the lessee. It is a follow-up from the trade union's side that can help to make a fixed addition or that one is replaced as a worker. There is also reason to believe that the lessees and trade unions in the vast majority of cases will also have common interests in determining whether the lessees are illegal or not. There is some reason why the government believes that the proposal is both necessary and well-founded.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e790	I thank you for your answer. I also understand the objections of the Council of State to this. But there was a reason why the government of Solberg removed the possibility that trade unions could take legal action. The background for it was simply that it is worrying that someone other than the one in question could go to court on behalf of someone who might not want to do so. The Association of Lawyers has been quite clear that such a rule may violate the right to a fair trial and it may violate Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights on Negative Freedom of Organisation. The representative Mimir Kristjánson referred earlier in this room to the author Franz Kafka, and I allow myself to do the same. I remind you that Kafka has written an entire novel about what it's like for a human being to experience being part of a trial that you haven't asked for. Will the Council of State consider at least the modernisation of the proposal, so that only those who are members of the trade union are covered by the proceedings?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e803	When the representative of Molberg recalls that there was a reason why the former Prime Minister removed this rule, I would remind the representative that there was a reason why he was initially introduced. The representative Molberg refers to one recording by one actor, but I'm curious about what the representative Molberg and the right party think about, for example. The Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate, who are very clear in their hearing recordings, give feedback that it is difficult to supervise the legal basis for tenants, that it is difficult to find out what is involved in illegal accommodation. They would like to welcome collective redress as an instrument. I would also like to know what the representative Molberg thinks, for example. an important and serious actor such as State Building itself, after a review of 40 of their contracts, that it has been found that in 50 p.m. Of these cases, it was difficult for them to do the same for the legal basis for the residence relationship. Does it not show in a very clear way that there is a need for a bigger system of follow-up of illegal accommodation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e808	I think the Association of Lawyers is a special heavy body to which attention should be paid, especially when it comes to the principal aspects of this question. Let me make it clear that the Council of State and I share the desire to defeat unprofessional actors in the world of work and illegal renting. There are many ways in which we can pursue this, for example. increased supervision may be an option and, through its trade union, individuals may also receive legal assistance in bringing legal proceedings. Nor have the courts refused to allow trade unions to bring actions under the general rules of the Arbitration Act on behalf of their members. So my last question to the Council of State is: Why does the government not consider today's instruments to be sufficient, when the option is to introduce a rule that can be felt quite intrusive for those who do not want to sue their employer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e813	I have to admit that I think it's a little provocative when a representative from the Right says that this can be a solution with increased supervision. Has she not read the annual reports of the Labour Inspectorate over the last few years while Erna Solberg has been in government? Hasn't she seen that there's been a development there that doesn't necessarily make it easier to discover relationships as illegal lodgers? It is also quite provocative to hear Molberg's representative talk that trade unions can play a role instead of through collective redress, when the previous government made it more expensive to be professionally organized over the eight years they ruled this country, while we have also strengthened the position of trade unions, by proposing to double the trade union deduction now in two years. It is clear that organised working life is part of the first line of defence against unprofessional practices, and collective redress will help to strengthen it. I have put great emphasis on the feedback we have received – I kept telling our own supervisors – the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate, who are asking for this and say that this will be an important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e831	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e839	‘The 100-day plan of the Workers’ Party for a new government states that the government shall submit proposals to terminate the privatisation of the clean-up team in the Defence within 100 days. What is the status of this proposal, and can the government guarantee that it will take place through the transfer of activities, in consultation with the trade union movement and in a way that respects the rights of employees and improves the purity of the defence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e846	Let me first point out that the government's basis for the work we do is the Hurdal platform. The working party has a 100-day plan. That said, the Hurdals platform states that the clean-up service should be returned to the Defence with the use of its own employees. That work is well under way in the Ministry of Defence. There is extensive work, and therefore it has not been possible to do this during the first 100 days. Defence construction will carry out its mission – with the support of other agencies, they will be given the task of implementing it after all investigations have been carried out in the Ministry of Defence. So that work is now well under way. I can ensure that human resources are respected and that both the rights and obligations of the personnel concerned are respected in line with the law and the contract work, including those related to the business transfer. Defence sector purity covers about one million square metres. This makes the assignment one of the largest clean-up deliveries in Norway. Many are affected. There are many contracts that are to be cancelled and replaced by own employees. Therefore, the return of cleanness to the defence requires careful planning in order to ensure a good transition to the new regime and where both quality and efficiency requirements are properly met.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e855	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State, and I am glad that the government of the Hurdal platform has made it clear that the clean team in the Defense will be taken back. This is a privatisation process that has been so unhappy that several buildings in the defense had to be closed because they were too dirty, and so unhappy that the previous defense minister, Frank Bakke-Jensen from the Right, at some point took the clean-up in his own offices because he was not satisfied, while the ISS continued to wash for the rest of the defense. That's a reason we're impatient – not only in Red, but also among those who work with cleanness in Defense. I will try to ask the Council of State again: When is it possible to expect that a decision can be made to ensure that these are taken back in public?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e862	The decision was taken at the Hurdal platform and the work is well under way. I would like to ask for respect for the fact that in the kind of agreements that have been concluded, there are both cancellation periods and conditions to be taken into account in view of the employees who work in these companies that are currently on the job. So this is necessarily a matter that needs to take some time. So I don't want to go into characterizing the work of the companies that have had these assignments. For the government, it's a goal of improving quality. It shall be done with its own staff and implemented — implemented — as quickly as possible. That work was actually started in the department almost one day after the government change. But as I said, this is a kind of thing that takes time – it's a huge and extensive work. It's a large area, there's a lot of contracts, and in all of these contracts, there are different notice periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e869	I thank you once again for your answer. I have no doubt that the government quickly started this work. It is quite right that the Council of State points out that in such contracts there is a certain period of notice. That's why it's a little strange to introduce to the voters that this should be done within 100 days, but I understand that it's not the council that's to be charged for, because he's from the Central Party. The concrete question in this context is: What is ‘some time’? What's the deadline you're waiting for – what's the notice period we're talking about? When can we expect that this promise made by the government, both the Central Party and the Workers' Party, and the Hurdal platform will be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e876	I think I'm not going to date it, because I don't actually have an overview of it – the different agreements and when they can be transferred and taken care of by my own employees. My response to this must be as quick as is practicable. That's the government's goal, and that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e884	‘When will the Government implement the point in the Hurdals platform to ‘move a sufficient number of Bell 412 helicopters to Bardufoss to strengthen the army’s helicopter capacity pending the purchase of new helicopters’, and what measures will be taken to compensate for the loss of the operational capability of the Special Forces?’ It became a little bit new, but it's taken from the basic text.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e891	Both dimensions are very well used in the staging hall, so it's going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e896	The representative is in charge of the new Norse well, it sounded like, so it's good. And it's true, as the representative of Riveres says, that in our political platform we have assumed that the army's helicopter capacity should be strengthened pending the purchase of new helicopters, precisely to improve the army's ability to train as well as to exercise helicopter support in operations. As the Hurdal platform also says, it will be necessary to make a more detailed assessment before the government decides on a concrete timetable and the scope of such a move. We are already carrying out that assessment in the Ministry of Defence. When this is clear, we will inform the Storing in an appropriate way about the number and timing and how this is implemented. It is quite obvious that the government's intention and purpose is a solution that more closely supports helicopter support for both the Army and the Special Forces. Of course, it's demanding when you have a certain number of helicopters to care for that needs to be distributed in a different way. Regardless of the future distribution of today’s and new helicopters, it is important for the government to ensure that the counter-terrorism preparedness in Back is maintained. This means that the Defense Helicopters will be able to assist the police in sharp operations. Helicopter readiness on Rygge is also a crucial element in resolving the defence mission within maritime counter-terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e907	The answer might well be summed up briefly as if the person who is living is going to see. But there are some undeniable facts you have to deal with: Air Force is in a very demanding situation; new rescue helicopters are to be phased in, because the NH90 has its well-known problems, new fighter planes and new maritime surveillance aircraft. Air defence is based on competence in terms of pilots, technical staff, etc. Does the Minister see the additional challenges that the Air Force can face by possibly splitting the helicopter environment between Rygge and Bardufoss, and how will corrective action be taken to address the additional problems likely to be imposed on the Air Force by the need for more competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e914	In the spontaneous question hour I gave tribute to the Right for increasing the appropriations for the Defence and strengthening the Defence, but the representative of the Rivers has now illustrated in an excellent way that there are still great weaknesses in which the previous government has not been able to clear up, in terms of the challenges that the representative has pointed out in a very good way. I don't have to repeat it. All of these areas are at work by the government. It's demanding, there's no doubt about it. Dissemination of these helicopters and taking some northwards while maintaining a good preparedness for counter-terrorism can be done in several ways, e.g.: by hiring civil helicopters in some areas where necessary. In addition, it is important to remember that the police have strengthened their helicopter service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e921	Thanks for the answer. The Bell helicopters are now in the process of reaching their technical lifetime. They're almost literally flying into the sunset. The plan is that new Bell helicopters will be acquired from 2024 onwards and from 2029 onwards. So now we're in 2022. My simple question to the Minister is: Are you on the road to the acquisition of new helicopters to meet the first milestone in 2024?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e928	It's obviously the government's ambition that we should follow that plan. As I said earlier in the debate today, we are also aiming to deliver a message during the year, with some re-priorities in what we are doing. Both the Workers' Party and the Center's party were engaged in strengthening the Defence Forces in the last period. Some of the criticisms made against the previous government were that some came too late, and that it was too little. To the extent that the representative himself has illustrated this, it has now been through the weaknesses we are looking at, for example. this area. The Hurdal platform is clear that these are areas where the government will prioritise and work to improve. That's also my starting point. It works for, and the representative said, "Everyone who lives will see what comes in the message that is being promoted to the Stortinget at some point in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e938	‘The centre party pushes the people in front of them when they want to dissolve Troms and Finnmark. It appears as a paradox that the Center Party is opposed to regional reform, apparently only because the Stortinget made a decision in which the Center Party disagreed at the time, while their own Åslaug Haga gave much prestige in a similar regional reform, which was scrapped by the Stortinget. Is it so that the Center Party is really for county mergers and thus not for principleal opposition to the merger of Troms and Finnmark, but opponents of the way it happened?"
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e945	During the Question Time last week, I was challenged by the left-wing representative Bjørlo not to be so concerned with the sharing processes, but also to stand up for the county councils and the opportunities they are working on. I replied that it was essentially the last thing I want to spend time and energy on. But the left-wing representative, Skkelstad, is still following up here today with another question about county division, history and what has happened before. Of course, I will answer that question. I don't want there to be any doubt with the Left, one of the perpetrators of the coercion of the county councils, that the central party is responsible for another policy. The central party voted in favour of almost all of the voluntary municipal and county municipal mergers promoted by the Solberg government, but we have rejected Left's forced use. It is a fundamental prerequisite for the Centre Party to place high emphasis on local democracy, not least in assessing whether or not one should remain as one's own entity. This is also the basis for the government's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e952	When the Council of State was head of the KS, we met for debate during Arendalsuka last year. Among other things, we agreed that the county councils could carry out far more tasks than today. Terje Hagen, who led the Hagen Committee, was also involved, and underlined that new county municipalities now represented regions that could take on more tasks than with the previous structure. In the discussion of tasks for the county municipalities, Gram made a wise request: the power that potentially lies in the county municipalities, we need to build on and exploit. I then assume that he referred to the potential force in today's eleven county municipalities. Does the Council of State think that the potential power of the county councils he referred to as the then governor of the KS will be weakened if Troms and Finnmark are dissolved?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e963	I am very concerned about the role of county councils in Norwegian administration, in both service provision and development work. I believe that the county councils are a very important player here, not least as an actor in regional development by building regional partnerships and taking advantage of regional advantage. Therefore, the government is betting on the county municipalities and on strengthening the county economy. We have shown in the Hurdal platform that we want to look at the division of tasks between, among others. the state administrator and county councils, and also in other circumstances. I have also pointed out in the previous answer that work on regional growth agreements for county municipalities is becoming central. I believe that the tasks we see for us now, the tasks the previous government added to the county councils, and what we are looking forward to in the future, can well be carried out even within a changed county council structure, which there may be opportunities for applications to obtain.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e972	I don't want to completely drop the Hagen committee and the tasks that were proposed moved to the counties. The selection underlined that it was just the new state structure that opened for such a massive relocation of tasks. When the matter was dealt with in Stortinget in the autumn of 2018, the Senterpartiet went a long way in supporting the Hagen selection of tasks they proposed to move out. Here's something creeping. The centre party refuses to accept the premises for how and why those tasks can potentially be moved out, namely through larger regions, but still wants several of the tasks to be moved out. Does the Council of State really think that the Hagen Committee's report could still have been moved out — even if you choose to reverse some of the states? I had foreseen that the Council of State was a little bit more ambitious, so it's a paradox that he's now landing on that there's only tasks that lie around the manager, he wants to move out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e981	I do not think that is a correct representation of the answer I just gave. I pointed out the desire to strengthen the economy of the county councils, such as. can help strengthen the muscles of regional development. I referred to specific government administration tasks, but I also said that it was relevant to look at other tasks. I showed you, among other things: to the government's proposal to develop a system of regional growth agreements, where county municipalities can play an important role. It is tempting to ask a question back, for this question I have now received several times from the representative of Skkelstad: it seems to me that it is very unclear to me what specific tasks he is talking about as today's county councils or an adjusted county structure can actually carry out. I've read the Hagen committee, and there's a lot of work there that can be done with an adjusted county structure as well, perhaps apart from relocating responsibility for the hospitals. However, I have not heard that the representative of Skkelstad is in charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e988	The representative won't answer that, because now we're going to go to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e996	‘In the Hurdal platform, by 2023, the government promises to secure at least one high-speed charging station in all municipalities. It also promises to introduce VAT on the most expensive electric cars. Both promises originate from the Workers’ Party’s ‘100-day plan for a new government’. No VAT was proposed in the State budget, although it has support in the majority of cases. On the other hand, 100 million were granted. kr to charging stations. How many fast charging stations does the government expect you to get for the money, and how many more could you get if you had introduced electric car VAT in line with the promises?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1003	The climate crisis is our biggest challenge. For this government, it is clear that we are going to achieve the climate goals, and that we need to align our economy with being more renewable and sustainable. That is why we already made clear in our first state budget that we are going to cut greenhouse gas emissions. One of these grips was to grant 100 million. kr to build new charging stations. Norwegian electric car policy is a good example of good climate policy. That being said, it is not as easy to drive an electric car anywhere – as the representative is probably aware – because fast charging stations are just missing. This hole in the charging map will be removed by the government. That is why, as I said, we have already allocated 100 million in the additional number. kr for the expansion of fast charging stations. It will provide more opportunities to cut greenhouse gas emissions across the country. It is not so easy to answer exactly how many quick chargers it will be possible to establish with 100 million. kr before Enova has made an assessment of which of the areas to be prioritised first. There may be very wide variations in costs associated with construction, and much depends on the close proximity of the charging station to the established power infrastructure. For example, Enova provides information on: an average charge for setting up a charger of 50 kW is above 1 million. kr. If chargers of 150 kW are to be built, the cost could increase to 1,5 million. kr. It will be in line with the overall governance of Enova, be up to Enova, to set up the aid scheme based on their experience and professional judgement. The Hurdal platform shows that government parties will ensure a fair climate policy and that VAT is paid on the purchase of a new electric car in excess of NOK 600 000. The date from which this shall apply is not specified. An amount limit of 600 000 kroner per car would mean a completely new element of VAT. This raises technical, legal and administrative issues that need to be addressed. An amount limit would also be part of the EEA Agreement, since the exemption from VAT is to be regarded as State aid and authorised by ESA in its current form from 2022. With the limited time available to the government, it has not been possible to put an amount limit into the budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1014	Thanks for the answer. If climate policy is to be balanced, we depend on it to have broad support, and that climate policy does not reinforce economic differences. Today's electric car policy may have contributed to the opposite, because we see for example. by statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau last year that the most expensive electric cars are still purchased by those who have the most money. At the same time, we have a number of municipalities – at the turn of the year there were 73 municipalities – which do not even have charging stations. I will follow up on what the Council of State answers on VAT. We have already differentiated VAT, for example. on electricity, without this being contrary to EEA or EU rules. I wonder if you have started the work of introducing VAT on electric cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1023	The President will again remind you that all speeches must be directed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1028	Yes, with regard to VAT and the piece that the representative here concerns, it is under the Ministry of Finance, so I will not go into that further. But I agree with the description that we will make the electric car available to everyone. That is the intention, and it is the intention that we should have an offensive policy to develop charging infrastructure throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1033	Then I keep going on that track. If this government had imposed VAT on the most expensive electric cars, it would have revenues to use to seal the holes in which the state council itself was located, linked to charging stations throughout the country, so that an electric car becomes less a luxury in the urban strut and becomes more accessible to most people. That's why I'm still wondering if the Council of State can respond to the 100 million. SEK set aside is sufficient to ensure charging stations in all municipalities, in line with the 100-day plan, and the introduction of VAT will contribute to increasing the amount so that they actually get the promises made.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1038	The point of my post was that we have financed up this measure. These 100 million. kr is calculated on the basis of a need, but I also tried to describe that of course there will always be some uncertainty associated with these calculations. It is our goal to have high-speed charging stations in these municipalities, which are missing, which form the basis for this allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1046	‘In the Hurdal platform, the government promises to stop the free slip in the taxi industry. The same promise was made to the Workers' Party in its «100-day plan for a new government». Now 100 days have passed, but no suggestions have been put on the table. The government has only said that the work has started, but without specifying what is actually being assessed, or how long it will take. At the same time, it is clear that there is a majority on Stortinget to stop the release. When will the government put forward a concrete proposal to stop the drop-off in the taxi industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1053	The government will restore a well-functioning taxi market, and we will, of course, follow up the objectives of the Hurdal platform. This government will ensure a taxi industry with orderly conditions, where customers are safe and drivers have a job to live on. We're going to have a safe patient and school transport and a good taxi offer in the districts, and we're going to stop the freeway we're now seeing in the taxi market. Today's regulation of the taxi industry is controversial and demanding, and I understand that there is impatience related to the announced work. It is also important that we make solid solutions that last for time, both to restore predictability and trust, and to avoid new rounds with major regulatory changes. This includes, among other things: the need for final clarification of the scope of action in EEA law. For this government it is essential to ensure a good and predictable taxi policy. Nevertheless, we are clear that we want a different course from that of the right-hand government. That is why we have today also announced that we will introduce new requirements for copyright holders. It will ensure skills that can contribute to a more serious working life in the industry, and we will also look at requirements for bank guarantee, possibly roof lamp and other positive grips that can be right to relaunch. I had meetings with business operators, county councils and control authorities last November, so we did this very early after we entered the government offices. There I got a lot of good input, and I think we're going to have a good process involving the people involved, especially the workers' organisations, but also the industry in the work we're going to do on designing a taxi policy that stands, but of course is based on the Hurdal platform. We will now consider a number of different concrete actions to follow up the points of the platform and the processes required to achieve that implementation. In a short time, I'll be able to inform you more about further follow-up in this very important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1068	I just have to remind you that both the Norwegian Taxi Federation and large parts of the trade movement have called this a recipe for social dumping. It puts pressure on pay and working conditions for those who were already in the industry. Since this reform was introduced, more than 4,600 new rights have been granted. The number is from the turn of the year. Does the Council of State realize that this can be reversed, or would you just say no to further release?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1073	I now explained to you, among other things. that we are going to impose some requirements on perpetrators, and then we are going to investigate in more detail how we are going to address the specific issues mentioned in the Hurdal platform. So these are the points of the Hurdal platform that underpin the work we're going to do. But I ask for understanding that we need to investigate what is going to be implemented as a policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1078	It is stated in the 100-day plan of the Workers' Party for a new government that this release should be stopped, so I take hold of the thread we started here. I understand you're talking about investigations and stuff like that. But will it take six months, will it take one year, or will it take two years? When can you expect a reverse in the taxi reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1083	I don't entirely accept the premise for what the representative is saying now either, because we are doing this work, and we will of course be able to bring down the individual issues gradually. I am already notifying you that we will do something about claims for perpetrators. Then there will be other concrete points on the go. We're not going to spend a very long time doing it, but we're going to do it thoroughly enough to say that it's a solid taxi policy that can have connection, ups and downs over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1091	‘The oil and gas industry is Norway’s main industry and accounts for a very large proportion of Norway’s revenues. The industry also has thousands of Norwegian jobs. The government, in agreement with the Swedish Government's proposals to the State budget, has imposed a CO 2 tax on the oil and gas industry of a total of 28 p.p. and stopped the 26th concession round. How will this CO 2 tax negatively affect the oil and gas industries here in Norway, and how will the 26th concession round stop order affect industry and jobs in terms of lost oil revenues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1104	The Norwegian petroleum industry shall be developed, not liquidated. The petroleum sector is a highly productive industry that contributes to high incomes, value creation and jobs in Norway. We want to facilitate the continued high level of activity on a Norwegian base. In Norway, oil and gas are produced efficiently and with low emissions. The main means of reducing emissions on Norwegian cap is the ETS and the CO 2 tax. The high cost of emissions gives companies strong self-interest in reducing their greenhouse gas emissions. We see that the instruments work. We're producing low emissions, and the emissions are going down. The increase in CO 2 tax in the year’s budget will contribute to further reductions in emissions in Norway. At the same time, it is important that the cost of emissions on Norwegian soil produces the least undesirable effects on value creation, employment and state income. It is important that the sector is ensured predictability because increased costs may be detrimental to manufacturers. The government is therefore clear that the CO 2 tax will gradually increase. All areas open to petroleum activities and available for new allocations may be illuminated in a concession round. The budgetary agreement with SV does not affect this. The illumination of the various prospective areas is determined by what is most appropriate from a petroleum professional assessment. In most of the open land available on the Norwegian continental shelf, there has been exploration activity for decades. The areas are now mature and are therefore subject to the TFO concession rounds. Therefore, exploration activities and new land allocations will take place mainly within the predefined areas during this scaling-up period. The firmness of the concession system means, among other things: that the government will implement new concession rounds. I published a joyful allocation under TFO 2021 yesterday. We will continue the TFO system as practised today, both in 2022 and beyond. The budgetary agreement with SV indicates that any 26th concession round will not be announced in 2022. It doesn't mean more or less than just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1130	The increase in the CO 2 charge for the oil industry by 28 p.p. increases the cost of the oil industry. The petroleum industry in Norway may be the industry and the area that pays the most in CO 2 tax and quota prices already. It is absurd in many ways to testify that, at a time when Europe lacks enough natural gas and Norway are constantly seeing new records in the export of natural gas to Europe, the response to the government is to strengthen the Russian energy power and weaken Norway’s position by strongly distorting the charging of the petroleum industry and the gas industry in Norway. Why does the government weaken our most important industry with a sharp increase in CO 2 tax when they have already paid so much?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1146	I do not think I agree with the actual description of the representative, Mr Schwe, that the framework conditions are significantly weakened, as it is claimed here. I would like to point out that there is a broad political consensus that we are going to increase the CO 2 tax, because it is one of our most important instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is tempting to ask the question of what the option of stepping up the CO 2 tax is. It might be to make the whole increase in one jump, and at least it wouldn't be predictability for what is one of our most important, most highly productive industries in the country today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1157	The answer to that is at least not to electrify the socket. In any case, there's an area that won't be any positive in any way. One just moves it to Europe and actually doesn't get any purer value from it. But finally, I have a question: when Norway is now exporting so much natural gas to Europe and prices are sky-high compared to what they have been before, can the Council of State tell us what they are, the total extra income that the Norwegian State receives because of the sky-high gas prices that we are now seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1162	Of course, we get significant increases in revenue. It goes into our petroleum fund, which we're going to spend on future pension expenditure, and where we're taking an off-take related to the rule of action. I don't want to give an accurate estimate for this and now, because that wasn't the original question. However, I would like to point out that in terms of the means of reducing emissions, both the CO 2 tax and the quota obligation, as well as the production of low climate pressure oil and gas and low climate emissions, are the main means we have for us to also have a high-productive oil and gas sector in the future. Electrification of it – if it happens as we want, including, for example: marine wind in the future – is very important to maintain productivity on the base.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1174	‘Stateline governance reduced the level of network lease for 2021 by 24 pst. compared to 2020. Statnett did this in the context of the difficult economic situation? many have, as a result of the coronary apathy. This year, on the other hand, Statnett has increased the tariffs by 6.5 pst. again. In the last quarter and until today, Statnet has brought in huge revenues as a result of sky-high power prices and sky-high energy exports. In the context of the persistent coronary crisis, and today's power prices that affect the population and industry, can the Council of State explain how much Statnet will, and can, reduce network rental in 2022?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1181	The network companies are monopolies which are heavily regulated by the energy authorities. Each network company, including the State Network, is responsible for the design of tariffs in its network within the allocated income framework established by the Energy Regulatory Authority, the RME, in line with the tariff requirements imposed by the Energy Code. The network lease shall cover the costs of operating, maintaining and deploying our mains. It's the power customers that cover these costs together through the network lease. Statnet reduced its share of network rental for all consumer customers by 24 pst in 2021. to remedy the situation of households and businesses in a difficult economic situation due to the coronary apathy. The RME approved a separate reduction in the tariff rate for 2021 and a collection of revenue over the next five years. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has had no role in this process. The practice of state networks is to set tariffs in the transmission network for one year at a time. The basis for the next year's tariffs is presented to customer organisations in May, and the decision is made at the Governing Board meeting in September of the previous year. In line with energy legislation, the Ministry of Oil and Energy does not have a role in this process. The bottleneck revenue arising from the flow transfer shall be used in its entirety to reduce tariffs. Bottleneck revenue varies from year to year, and Statnett sets tariffs for the transmission network based on forecast of bottleneck revenue before the final level of bottleneck revenue is known. Statnet states that higher bottlenecks than expected in setting tariffs will help reduce tariffs in recent years. I assume that Statnet itself is designing tariffs within the framework of energy legislation. The large bottlenecks received by Statnet at the end of the year will benefit the community through reduced network rentals in recent years. The government, on its side, has presented a good package of measures to enable us to support households quickly and accurately by providing direct grants to the electricity bill. We have proposed further strengthening the scheme, and I hope the Storting will join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1198	It is true that tariffs were reduced as a temporary measure to Norwegian consumers in order to meet the economic consequences of the coronary pandemic. It may seem that the economic consequences of the coronary pandemic are no longer present. There's a little bit of disagreement about that. In November last year, Statnett sent out a press release entitled that record revenues from the power cables will reduce network rental. By mid-November, Statnett had earned $2.9 billion. DK for cable connections to neighbouring countries, and in addition domestic bottleneck revenues of 1 billion were received. kr. This is due to large price differences between Norway and other countries and internal price ranges. This is a new record of revenues and will help reduce the network lease, the Statnet lease, but at the same time increases the transmission losses, thus increasing the network lease in several places. Can the State Council explain how the reduction in network rentals is going to go off, as well as the rationale behind the fact that Statnet draws billions into bottlenecks without reducing network rentals accordingly?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1207	As I also said in my previous answer, it is the transmission system companies that are responsible for the design and setting of tariffs within the allocated income framework established by the Energy Regulatory Authority, in line with the tariff requirements resulting from the Energy Act with regulations. As the representative is inside, Statnet received quite a lot of money in bottleneck receipts in 2021, in fact 5.3 billion. kr, and €3.5 bn. kr – 61 pst. of which — came in the fourth quarter. Bottleneck revenue varies from year to year, nor is the amount known at the time the tariff rate is to be fixed, but tariffs in their entirety are to be reduced. If bottleneck revenue is higher than foreseen in determining the tariff, revenue will be used to reduce tariffs in recent years. Of course, I am concerned that the NVE and the RME follow up and control the network companies, so that this is done in accordance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1216	The network lease is paid to the local network company independently of the electricity supplier, and it is correct, as the minister said, that the invoice covers the operation, maintenance and expansion of the electricity network and the fees to the state. About half of the network rental is currently due to the state. It is mainly municipalities and counties that own the network companies, and many of them take large dividends each year, rather than lower the network rental. This can be seen as an additional taxation and that consumers pay more than is necessary. As a good example, the proceeds to Hafslund Net, owned by the Municipality of Oslo, could amount to 1.5 billion. kr in 2017 is used. I see from my own home country – where I received a notice this week from Agder Energia Net about an increase of 600 kroner per year with effect from 1 February – that the reduction of network rental is obviously not a priority of the government. Does the Council of State think it is reasonable that extra-high grid rentals come to the top of already sky-high electricity prices, and that companies take in so much money that they can take billions of dividends rather than return the money to customers at lower prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1223	Then I almost have to repeat what I have already said twice, that if a company has had lower actual income than permitted income, it is less income, and then they have to collect it again later. If they've had increased revenues, so they've earned more, they're going to pay it off again. There must be a reduction in net tariffs. This is regulated by law, and the Ministry of Oil and Energy has no role in setting these network tariffs. This is done on the basis of the annual income framework, which is determined before the level of revenue is seen for each year. The NVE, through the RME, is the supervisory authority, and I assume that they supervise and follow up, so that this is implemented in line with laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1231	‘Through the media, we have been made aware that there are challenges related to Norwegian patient damages [[NPE]] What will the Council of State do to enable patients to regain confidence in having their cases thoroughly and objectively assessed by experts, and that this happens within a reasonable period of time, and that the Council of State could improve the treatment of the NPE if case handlers more often met the patients applying for compensation, thereby avoiding a large proportion of cases being converted into the judicial system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1238	The vast majority of experts have concluded agreements with Norwegian patients’ compensation, NPE, following public tendering. An important assessment criterion is the competence of the expert in his field of competence. This criterion ensures the medically sound quality of the opinions delivered by the experts. It is important to clarify that there is a case handler who takes decisions, based on a legal assessment of the case. The task of expert on a patient injury case dealt with by NPE is not different from the task of obtaining an expert as a judicial expert in legal proceedings. The expectations of their objectivity are the same. The NPE usually conducts meetings with replacement applicants in part of the extensive and difficult cases, mainly during the compensation assessment. The NPE also has contact with the claimants through correspondence and telephone calls. There has been practice in NPE for many years, but the coronary apathy has made it difficult to carry out meetings. The NPE has indicated that the practice will be resumed when the pandemic situation permits. Faced with the large number of cases dealt with in the administration, few cases are pending before the courts, and the state is acquitted in the vast majority of cases that are given a final judgment. Patient injuries are complicated, and they are in the meeting between medicine and law. The handling of a number of cases each year involves a useful quality assurance of the work done in the administration. I believe that today we have a system that safeguards patients' rights. At the same time, the NPE process time has been reduced. The NPE spent an average of 6.7 months on determining the applicant’s right to compensation. There has been a fall of 60 days since 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1251	I record that the Council of State now comes with the office and the bureaucracy's response. This is not how I have experienced Labour Party representatives and a government council sitting in the hall, the Consumer Minister, who has also been clear in the criticism of the NPE and how to deal with these matters. And it must be a paradox for the Council of State and the confidence that of 18 lawyers in a TV 2 survey, most people say that they have little trust or at least less confidence in much of what is happening around the proceedings. It's about patients who are applying for damages to patients, who rarely or never have medical or legal competence themselves, who meet a lot of professional expressions to try to get the best answer possible. Then it could have been very good with a good and clear dialogue, where you had meetings. What will the Minister of Health do to strengthen the legal certainty of patients in dealing with the patient injury regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1256	Now it's up to a government council to deliver quality assurance responses to Stortinget. It would look as if the Council of State did something else. Then I would expect the representative Hoksrud to come up with a question quite immediately and ask if this was really right. What is the job ahead is to make sure that Norwegian patients' damages and health complaints work, that you have the skills you need, that the tenders that lead to the right expert, both medically and legally, working, and that you have a reasonable trial period. Some of the explanation is related to the coronary apathy when it comes to not being able to meet those who are applying for compensation, in physical meetings, and it is important to work to get the treatment time as short as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1263	I record that the Council of State refers to the agreements concluded, that it has been meeting, and that it is actually the practice. But I don't think many of the patients who have filed a complaint experience that this has been the case with the patient damages. They also experience that they do not meet the expert who is actually going through and quality assurance of this, and several patients also ask questions about the specialists and their association, where you feel that it is important to lie down, and that it is controversial on the part of the victim. I see that the Council of State does not really take into account the criticism addressed to the NPE and the health complaint, according to the lack of confidence in the proceedings, and in particular the use of experts. I want to challenge the Council of State on how she thinks that the actors can have confidence in a system where, among other things, the expert does not investigate the victim, and what the Minister of Health will do about so many having such a mistrust, because it will also be a challenge for the Council of State that many do not trust the arrangements they have to care for patients in a good and safe way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1270	I believe it is important that the NPE carry out meetings with the claimants, because it is necessary to provide a good enough handling of the cases. Usually it is related to the more complex issues, the difficult issues, where it is not enough just to collect written documentation, but also to obtain additional information. I expect that to be done. And although health complaints have strong growth in case resolution, they do not give direct results in the short term. That's because this is a residue that needs to be built down. You have to go through the pile of things that have accumulated, and I also expect you to have pressure on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1278	‘The working party presented a 100-day plan for a new government, in which it was promised to propose a gradual extension of the public dental service. They would start by ‘introducing free dental treatment to persons aged 19 to 21 years, introducing half the price of dental treatment for persons aged 22 to 25 years and providing their own dental care support to those with the most poor advice’. The same proposal was also clarified in the Hurdal platform. The hundred days have passed. Will the government do as promised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1285	Yesterday, Mr Stortinget dealt with a representative proposal for a dental reform. In my speech and in my answers in the debate, I also presented what the government is aiming for. As the representative Aydar is familiar with, it is the Hurdal platform and not the Work Party's 100-day plan that expresses the ambitions and goals of this government for our work. The key objective of the Hurdal Platform is to gradually expand the public dental service with the aim of equalising dental services with other health services. In the budget agreement, the Labour Party and SV agreed on a number of reinforcements. In the budget year we are now in, the county framework is strengthened, we are giving increased funds to the dental service in order to provide 21- and 22-year-olds with an offer of 50 pst. part of it, and we strengthen the organized dental offer, the so-called TOO offer, for people with severe anxiety about dental treatment. In addition, we have increased the tariffs for dental regulation from 1 January 2022. Yesterday I stated that it is my ambition to follow up the request decisions on dental health from December last year. The Government shall set up a sample to make proposals to ensure that dental services are treated in the same way as other health services, including self-employment models. We will also launch an investigation into the status of dental services in Norway. This is a work we're starting now. The size has requested it by decision earlier, and we are prepared to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1296	We all want improvements and these measures very welcome. But we are also impatient, and we are not the only ones who are impatient. The populace believes that the teeth must be treated as part of the body, and promises given in the election campaign create expectations. When you can see differences in people's economy by looking at their teeth, and when there are quite a number of people who have to deal with pain or who have to borrow to pay their dental bills, it's not enough for the government to have good intentions, or to hear how happy the government is with itself and with everything it does. Yesterday, Red proposed that the government should propose its own dental promise in the revised budget. When the government parties vote it down, it is difficult to see that the health minister wants to implement the dental vows in her 100-day plan. Then the question is: What are the plans to make dental health free and cheaper for those young people to whom the Workers' Party made promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1305	When Stortingen is about to deal with the revised national budget, it has gone a long way more than 100 days – I think we can agree on that. The goals we had, we've achieved a little bit. We now make it possible for the county councils to offer the 21 and 22 year olds half the price of dental treatment. We think that's a step in the right direction. It is not to be completely in the goal given the 100-day plan of the Workers' Party, but that we have a government constellation that together with SV manages to get well on the way, I think is good. The proposals that Red came forward yesterday were voted over in this Chamber, and they did not get a majority. Then there is nothing a minority government is working on either. We have notified a large-scale report and several sample work, which we will see in the context when Stortingen receives that message for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1312	If the Workers' Party wanted to implement its own 100-day plan, government negotiations went and came with something weaker in the end, the question is whether it was the Center Party that stood in the way of it, or whether it was only something that was discussed before the election, but that is not fully implemented after the election. It will be a breach of promise to the young, who had delighted themselves to be more reasonable and free of charge dental health, and who are now left with the bill themselves. I have to repeat the question of whether young people up to the age of 25 can see that the government fulfills the promises they made before the elections. Of course, Red believes that it is both necessary and possible with a proper dental reform that treats the teeth as part of the body. If the parties to the government had voted in favour of their own election vows, we would have had a majority in the Grand Chamber, at least for one proposal yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1319	My job is to implement a government platform. It's also ambitious in the dental field, where we take steps to help both those who have special challenges in funding their dental treatment, because they need it, and those groups that we know are not able to give priority to regular dental treatment, namely those who are young. That's a government priority. It's always like that. It is a bit tempting to take the reasoning from the representative Aydar completely out. Then there would be quite a number of Red's proposals that do not get a majority in this Chamber, which are also a breach of promises. So this I think both voters and most people understand. One negotiates, one goes a step further, and it is a pleasure for 21 and 22-year-olds in Norway that they now receive half a price.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1329	‘When Right presented the first national health and hospital plan in 2015, it was in order to outsource the course for the country’s hospital in the years to come – a plan that was committed, that provided predictability and that set out what was needed to ensure a good treatment provision across the country. In the hospital speech, the Minister of Health said that the government should not continue with national health and hospital plans. Instead, the government must draw up a health and interaction plan. Will this plan be more or less binding than the national health and hospital plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1336	I can reassure the representative that the national health and interaction plan will be at least as committed as the national health and health plans that have been discussed in the past. National health and interaction plan shall, in the same way as the previous plans, be addressed by the Stortinget and shall provide guidance for the regional and local development plans of the specialist health service. The plan will show how we will succeed in a decentralised healthcare service that provides good and equivalent healthcare throughout the country. When we replace the word ‘hospital’ with ‘cooperation’, it is to make the priority of one of the most important challenges in healthcare, namely interaction. We're getting older, more people are living longer with one or more chronic disorders, and we're not going to be able to meet this need only with increased crewing. We need to use our professionals in hospitals and municipalities in a better way. Not least, we need to take more care of patients and users with complex needs. All patients, users and relatives shall experience a comprehensive and coherent health and care service. In the National Health and Hospital Plan of 2019, the government then launched the establishment of 19 health communities between municipalities and health businesses. Health communities are well under way to further develop the structures of the interaction reform, but we believe they need more and better tools in the toolbox if they are to be a driver for joint planning and development of services for the benefit of patients, users and relatives. The government will see the national health and interaction plan in the context of the Health Personnel Commission and the sample to look at the governance model for the specialist healthcare service. This government will strengthen our common health and care service. Then we need to see the specialist health services and the community health and care services in the context. When interaction is the main theme, I believe that a big message that points towards the overall healthcare service will create more ownership and commitment than a message that is mainly directed at the specialist healthcare service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1349	I am listening to what the Council of State says, but it is not that interaction and resource challenges have not been highlighted in the two national health and health plans that our government presented and that the Stortinge were dealing with. These have been important issues in both national health and health plans. What is a little worrying is, for example: whether we now have a hospital map that is no longer completed. The national health and hospital plan provided for the first time a completed hospital map for Norway. There have been redundancies about hospital expansion for over 20 years, and even if there is a cost of sitting in government, and even if decision-making costs are involved, the latest national health and hospital plan, which we are now in, is clearly linked to hospital expansion in Norway. Will the new plan of the Council of State be equally binding in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1358	I am very uncertain about the criticism that the representative here is making. Is the word ‘hospital’ missing, or is it that there has been interaction before, but that it has not been called ‘cooperation plan’? I think it's going to be criticism without goals and directions. I have participated in the treatment of two national health and hospital plans. They've been very different. I do not share the description given by the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen that the first health and health plan established the hospital map in Norway. It pointed out in several areas where structural processes are still ongoing without a decision on the location of the new hospitals. So I just don't agree. The latest health and medical plan dealt with large patient groups in need of coordinated services, where they divided into four large groups and measured their need for just interaction, and where the health community was the concrete measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1367	Firstly, I hope that asking questions is not perceived as criticism. This is a question of what the new government is putting into a national health and interaction plan. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that when we joined the government in 2013, we started to work on creating a national health and hospital plan. We then announced that these processes related to hospitalizations in Norway would continue. In eight years, all these decisions were taken, and the latest national health and hospital plan very clearly established what the hospital map in Norway should be like. At the same time, it contained both important decisions relating to interaction — to which the Council of State has been involved — and very good descriptions of where we wanted to, and how we should achieve them in the field of human resources. I am most concerned that the plan should be binding. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that the hospital card is still signed and that it is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1376	Not all decisions have been made. In southern Greece, a two-sickness model has been chosen. There are still decisions that remain before the geographical structure is established. For the Inland, it has been decided – and that is what the previous Minister for Health did – to explore also a zero-plus option. So we still don't fully agree on the reality description. But a big message is just as binding no matter who submits it. The way we intend to follow up on this is through annual letter of assignment and enterprise protocol — just as the former Minister of Health did. And the fact that you are concerned about something – I can reassure the representative Troeen that the Storting has the same authority even if governments change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1386	‘This week we were able to read about a young boy in Trøndelag who does not get the help he needs to deal with his drug problems because there is no 24-hour drug treatment service for young people in his neighbourhood. Will the Council of State ensure that provision is made for young people with serious drug problems that do not fit into outpatient or institutional settings under the Child Welfare Act, wherever in their country of residence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1393	I know the matter being referred to, as it appears in the newspaper article in question, and my comments are naturally general enough. In cases involving minors or young people with drug problems, all forces must join forces to ensure that young people receive the treatment and follow-up services they need. It's true throughout the country. If the specialist health service assesses the treatment that the specialist health service can provide, as necessary, health establishments have a care-care responsibility and the right to treatment has no lower age limit. Child and youth psychiatry is responsible for providing health services to children and young people with drug problems, but the follow-up to multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment or child protection may be relevant in some cases. Close cooperation between health services and child protection services is particularly important in matters where children or young people face challenges of mental health or drug abuse, and here I would also like to stress that we need to strengthen user involvement in patient treatment. Patients — regardless of their age — should be able to provide feedback on their help. It is important to me that we develop services and offers that respond to the needs and see people behind the problems. There is a need to develop and strengthen young people with drug problems. I would therefore like to entrust the Health Directorate with the task of clarifying why specialised drug treatment for children and young people should be offered, and to describe concrete proposals for strengthening services. Active outreach and multidisciplinary models, such as FACT Young, are to be seen in this work, where municipalities and specialist health services combine to provide good services to young people. I have also followed this up through the mission documents of the regional health companies. The aim is to strengthen mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment in general, and in 2022 all healthcare establishments were given the task of strengthening the provision of drug treatment to children and young people. We want to strengthen and develop services in the drug field, as we have announced in the Hurdal platform, including for young people. I will come back to how we will carry out this work, which includes both treatment and follow-up services and a national drug prevention programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1410	Drug use in children is often viewed as a behavioral problem and not a health challenge. For some children there is a need not only for decisions under the Children’s Protection Act but also for proper follow-up in health services. The situation for those struggling with drug problems is this: In Health Middle Norway, there are no institutions that provide day-based treatment for those under 16 years of age. Nor does it do it in Health South-East, as among others. covers my home country, Agder. For children and young people in particular, it may be difficult and harmful to have to leave their family and their network for treatment. The boy in the matter to which I referred is now sent away for treatment 50 miles away from the family, in violation of professional advice. I am very pleased that the Council of State says that she will follow up the matter further and investigate it, but when can this boy and other children in the same situation as him expect to get an offer of help without having to travel terribly far away from home?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1419	All patients are entitled to treatment based on their need for health care. When health care needs are comprehensive and complex, both in the field of mental health protection and in the area of drugs, health regions are responsible for providing it. If you do not have that offer on your own, it is still the same patient rights that apply if you have to receive that offer elsewhere in the country. The fact that children and young people travel far in order to receive adequate treatment is not something we want to do, but it is also an assessment of the amount of capacity to be able to deal with day-to-day treatment and of the capacity to be able to deal with outpatient treatment. The goal we have now set for activity growth in hospitals in the field of mental health protection and drug abuse goes to both inpatient and outpatient care. There's going to be a growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1424	The Hurdal Platform is clear that the government wants to restrict the diversity of actors providing health and welfare services. Many of the children and young people with the greatest and most complex needs are currently cared for by professionals working outside public child protection or receiving offers from private health care institutions. It is also true that institutions and services often have exclusion criteria, which allow you to cut off in absolutely all of the boxes, but that if you, for example, working with intoxication, may be excluded from that institution. It also makes it even more difficult to find offers near where the children live, and it underlines the importance of diversity in the offer. Is the Council concerned that, eager to cut private suppliers, valuable skills may be lost by employees who have developed and delivered tailor-made offers to children over time, and how does the Council of State see that it is not only necessary to meet the needs of each child when systematic action is taken to eliminate the diversity of offers that children and young people need?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1433	I don't quite know if I understood the question, because we have a number of private and ideal actors in mental health protection and drug addiction who have agreements with regional health companies. If this is how the query refers to the Free Treatment Scheme, then there is a scheme we intend to wind up next year, 2023. There are only 27 actors per day, representing a small proportion. In the region mentioned, with the specific example from the Address Paper, there are very few – if any – of the free treatment voters. On the other hand, larger NPISHs have contracts with health businesses. There are, of course, offers that are supposed to be there and that have been there almost completely since we received a public health service and that interact well with the other public health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1443	This question, from the representative Hege Bae Nyholt to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been transferred to Minister for Children and Family Kjersti Toppe, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1448	My question is about the possibility for children and young people to borrow free equipment, and is as follows: ‘Are the objectives of the 100-day plan to ensure free lending of sports and leisure equipment in all parts of the country met, sufficient funds have been allocated to meet the needs, and how many more places in the country are expected to make such equipment available as a result of State budget appropriations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1455	The Hurdal Platform states that the government will ensure that a plan for accessing training and leisure equipment is set up in the municipalities. Leisure activities are a major part of the lives of children and young people, and it is a very important arena to develop social skills, mastery and friendship. We know that today there are children and young people who do not have the opportunity to participate, and research also shows that social inequality in participation in sports has increased. This worries me. Being outside social activities is difficult for children and young people. There's an increased risk of alienation later in life. As Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I want to work for all children and young people to have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities. In order to achieve that goal, the government will, among other things. make it easier for children and young people to borrow sports and leisure equipment free of charge or reasonable. Today, centres lending such equipment can benefit from the establishment or operation through the «Provide for the inclusion of children and young people» scheme. In 2022 the scheme was strengthened by 85 million. NOK and represents a total of 555 million. kr. Last year, about two out of three centres applied for the scheme were granted a grant. This year's strength will allow more people to start up, purchase more equipment or expand their opening hours. The number of new equipment centres that will be able to start up as a result of this exercise depends on the number of equipment centres that search the scheme and the quality of the applications. Local authorities shall then rank the local applications, so that the incentive will also depend on the degree to which municipalities want to give priority to the action. Experience shows that municipalities generally think that this is a very good scheme and prioritizes these applications, but I can't say in terms of how many new ones this will facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1466	We know that most people have gotten the harder. Quite a lot of people have been licensed in one or more rounds. The electricity price has probably overturned quite a number of family budgets around. Prices are rising a little in general, and life can be perceived as quite difficult, and then it is simply too small sketches when the school invites to ski day, a crisis in a family. Or: When it lures into the ake tray and the friends invite with it and you don't have it ake board, then it's also a problem that the government council was in, can lead to children and young people not being able to participate in the same line with others. When I talk to the managers of these loan centres, they describe that they have a lot to do and could borrow a lot more, and that they simply have to reject children and young people because they don't have the equipment to borrow. Does the Council share our concern about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1471	Yes, absolutely. Under the Coronapandemic we're in now, there's an extra challenge because there's a lot of kids and young people that got out of organized sport. Some sports have also received measures to prevent infection, so that it is more difficult. I'm very concerned about exactly this, the participation of children and young people, and especially now under the pandemic. What the representative points out is that equipment is actually an obstacle for some children and young people – many, many more than we believe – is something that we can do about politics, because in a simple way, it makes it easier for children most likely to participate in normal leisure activities. It is also behind our desire to strengthen this system and strengthen the equipment centres, as we did in the budget, and it is also behind the point we have in the Hurdal platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1476	Thanks for the answer. Equipment sheds can work smoothly. It may give children and young people the opportunity to participate in recreational activities in which they would otherwise have been prevented from participating. The managers of an equipment shed, which I have talked to, told me that very many people also choose to try out the equipment before they land on ice hockey or trucking is something for them. I am the mother of a child who plays ice hockey, and know that it is relatively expensive. Equipment stores can also be seen as a means of preventing the use-and-cast society, simply by having the opportunity to borrow if you need it once, or to try something out rather than buying full equipment and perhaps not having it sold. Furthermore, a manager told us that there are very many exchange students who use the lending opportunities to participate in the Norwegian outdoors. Does the Council share the experience that lending facilities are important to ensure less buy-in and throw-out in society and part of the green shift, and that, therefore, it should also be invested in that respect?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1481	The President will remind you that the speech must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1486	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1491	I give the word to the Council of State Toppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1496	In addition to being Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I am the Minister for Consumer Affairs, so it is a question that goes right into my area of responsibility – preventing use and throwing and facilitating the re-use and sharing of equipment, which certainly contributes to the overall green shift. There are probably many more than children and young people who will be able to use such equipment centres. The arrangement that we have now is mostly about children and young people, young people, so it's also about the inclusion of children and young people, so it's a two-part consideration. We know a lot about what is needed to make equipment centres work even better. It has to do with opening times, etc. We will continue that work, because it is important in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1504	‘Does the Council intend to facilitate the notification of the national exit regime for high turnover enterprises due to hamster stoppages and other infectious measures by small enterprises with active owners who have converted the operation and keep the wheels running through 2021 with a small surplus for the year to be collected, for example, by not taking out wages or by taking very little pay over the year from the owner’s side?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1509	We have seen through the pandemic that many companies have worked hard, and many owners have sacrificed a lot to keep their business floating. It says respect. Both the representative and I have met many of these companies and listened to their stories. The government wants to make some changes to the compensation mechanism to ensure that the Community funds contribute to job security, keep the wheels running and rescue companies from potential bankruptcy. At the same time, we must take into account small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, the government has said that we will make some adjustments, especially for those who have worked hard to make a small profit year after year. So in the regulation, we're going to consider what is going to be the minimum amount for a profit to be refunded. In any case, the company should not have to repay more than the company has received a grant for the period from November onwards, i.e. not earlier. We have also said that companies with a small profit in the year as a whole will not be entitled to a refund. It is also important to consider subtracting the deficit from the business in 2020. Those who have made a total deficit in the coronary apathy so far will not be entitled to a refund of grants. So the same thing is going to apply to those who, overall, have only gone with a small profit so far. The questioner indicates that working owners make low wages in order to adapt to a crisis situation. I'm aware of that. There are also other models that give equivalent effect. For example, there is a certain ability to agree on deferred wages or sales-based bonuses. It may also affect the entity's profit for the year as a whole. Dividends are structurally different from wages and bonuses. For example, dividend-based dividends are paid. relevance to pension and social security rights, as we know. Company law requirements also affect the ability to distribute dividends. Of course, I will not recommend company owners – small or large – to use one or the other solution, but I am concerned that smaller companies should also know that alternatives are available. So I would also like to make it clear that we haven't stressed these possible options when we have designed the rules. We have to deal with the realities, and so we're adapting the regulation on repayment if the company goes with profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1522	I thank you for your answer. At least I'm glad that the Minister of Industry acknowledges the problem that is being raised here, and announces that a person wants to look at some arrangements that avoid punishing them of this debt, which is actually quite a lot. It's a group that's been working very hard, especially the small businesses, especially in the catering industry, who have active owners who have been around the year to make sure that the companies have the small excess that is actually necessary and right to have for businesses, in order to be safe and move on. But I still notice that when it comes to setting limits on surplus for the big ones, a very high and dark and clear, while when it comes to these adjustments that are to come, the Minister of Industry says that one will assess it, one will look at it, one will come back to it. I think a lot of people are wondering: how fast will a person come back to it, and what adaptations are they actually talking about? What is the time period for the Council of State here?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1531	The government returned its proposal to Stortinget for a short time. It is now under consideration, as the representative knows, and the Storting must join. I guess that's all reason to think that the Storting essentially joins the main lines. Once that's done, the government will be able to come back and introduce a regulation, and that's what we're doing. We've been busy listening to the companies throughout this whole period and these weeks. I myself am out to meet the business that is particularly affected. I have almost daily contact with different companies and the social partners. We have also adjusted some of the arrangements along the way, and we will also take the consequences of this in the regulatory work. And then we're also dependent on and occupied with the tempo. We have said that if the Storting joins the proposed compensation schemes, at least our agencies have worked day and night, literally, to get the application systems, the payment systems up. That is, companies that have the papers in order, and that quickly submit their applications, will be able to have money in their accounts in a short time. It's important to relieve the companies that work the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1540	The Council of State here reiterates that the Storting joins the regimes proposed by the government. From the left's point of view, we're going to be very clear that we're going to have a rough and good compensation scheme, but it's going to be designed to also compensate small businesses with active owners, and the companies that have managed to cope with surpluses, the year as a whole, or actually have to make exchange payments to pay property taxes or other things, are not going to be punished. I hope that the bulk of the population, where the Labour Party is also involved, can be more clear about it, that this is not just something that should be considered in the future, but that we are actually going to meet these companies. Because it's not felt as reasonable that if you've managed to recover through the year as a whole, you'll be punished for it. This shall be a compensation for the specific period granted by the disease protection measures. I would like to challenge the Councils of State, among others.: Will he come, for example. NHO proposal, setting an excess threshold... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1549	Time is up, and it has to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1554	I think I understood the question from the representative, and this is one of the things we want to assess in the regulatory work. So I would like to stress that the government has launched more than 20 financial measures to help secure jobs, keep as many wheels as possible running and create predictability for business. We have also been clear that none of the schemes themselves are perfect, but we hope that the sum of financial measures will contribute to the desired effect. With regard to the national compensation scheme, we have tightened it somewhat from the past. These include: based on the experience we have from the previous round. We also have a number of other measures, including: The wage support scheme, which may have contributed to our having a tenth of the number of leavencies we had in April 2020. It's had an effect. We have the municipal compensation scheme, with which all of the businesses I meet are very satisfied, and for those schemes there are not equal demands. Here is the whole that needs to be assessed together, and we believe that this in sum will help to take Norway further.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1580	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1594	This question has been withdrawn. So the ordinary questioning strategy is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-19.ana.ud1e1610	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
