ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e133	Honourable co-representatives! The former representative of the Trustee Eli Sollied Överaas from More and Romsdal passed away on 15 November 2020. Three children's mora and the teacher were from Ørskog on Sunnmøre, but made a space drop and worked for many years as a teacher in the West. She was a very engaged woman who always managed to involve others – talky and with an open way of being. She entered the party policy early and became active in the Center Party. She was involved in both education policy, family policy and cultural policy. She was also very involved in the transport field. There's every reason to pretend that she, like so many other elected people, had an engagement that went beyond the party, and that the community had a lot of use for it. She was active in both the health team and the children's and youth football and at least as committed to playing football, as when she worked on political issues and got political impact. From the municipal elections in 1983 until the 2009 Grand elections, she was involved in both the municipality, state and national politics. If it wasn't the local government or the presidencies, it was the county council and the society selection in More and Romesdal. She also had three periods at the Stortinget: first from 1993, then a period as the first alternate and then two periods from 2001. The first two periods put her in the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs. In the last period, she was a spokeswoman for the Central Party of the Transport Committee. It is special that cultural and family politicians will think Eli Sollied Överaas. She was involved, for example, in the inter-political negotiations leading to the 2003 Kindergarten Agreement, which was a watershed of a reform in the child and family fields. Eli was moody and positive, and smiled and laughed put loose, even when she worked hard. But she could definitely say clearly from when it was necessary. It was not at least the Central Party's State Council in the Ministry of Transport that noted that it was a transport policy spokeswoman in its last period of time. She dared to criticize the government when she was afraid that the roadways would become too small, and she knew well that she had the district in her back when she did. There was both backbone and involvement in Eli Sollied Upperås, but she was primarily a knowledgeable, friendly and warm person, with a smile one did not forget when one had first experienced it. We brighten the peace of her good memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e160	The representative Tellef Inge Mørland, who has been authorized, has taken the seat again. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e170	On behalf of the representatives of Storing Lars Haltbrecken, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal on quick tracks for floating sea winds. On behalf of myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to limit the concentration of power in Norwegian daily food.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e177	The representative, Sivert Bjørnstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e182	On behalf of Hans Andreas Limi, May Helen Hetland Ervik, Terje Hansen, Himanshu Gulati, Frank Edvard Sve, Helge Andre Njåstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to eliminate discrimination that favours foreign ownership in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e187	The representative, Mr Hemdal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e193	On behalf of the representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Per-Willy Amundsen, Sylvi Listhaug, May Helen Hetland Ervik and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on safe leisure activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e198	Mona Fagerås wants to put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e203	On behalf of the big business representatives Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken, Ingrid Fiskaa, Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal for more and better public transport. On behalf of the big business representatives Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal that those who fly the most have to pay the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e210	The representative, Mr Grete Wold, will put forward two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e215	On behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Andreas Shelg Unneland, Kirsti Bergstø, Marian Hussein, Freddy André Øvstegård, Kathy Lie, Mona Fagerås and myself, I will present a proposal for a fair housing policy. Furthermore, I would like to make a representative proposal on behalf of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Marian Hussein, Kathy Lie, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and myself on a comprehensive age setting for lone minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e222	The representative, Mr Almeland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e227	On behalf of the representatives Sveinung Rotevatn, Guri Melby and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen the sign language's position and the interpretation service for deaf, deaf and hearing-impaired people to ensure equal communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e232	The representative, Mr Kathy Lie, put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e237	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Kirsti Bergstø and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal to close debt traps.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e242	The representative, Seher Aydar, proposed two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e247	On behalf of the representatives of the Bears Moxnes, Sofie Marhaug, Geir Jørgensen and myself, I am promoting a proposal to design the Furuset lid on the E6. On behalf of the representative Tobias Drevland Lund and myself, I am promoting a proposal to cut the management salaries of health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e255	The representative of Turid Kristensen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e260	On behalf of Alexander Stokkebø, Tage Pettersen, Helge Orten, Tore Vamraak and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to take social responsibility and help people with debt problems through a strengthening and expansion of the debt register.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e265	The representative of Mr Wetrhus Thorsvik will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e270	On behalf of the representatives of Abid Raja, Guri Melby, Grunde Almeland and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal on a more flexible childcare facility, better adapted to the needs of the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e275	Rasmus Hansson wants to put forward three representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e280	On behalf of the representative Lan Marie Nguyen Berg and myself, I would like to make a proposal on significant cost savings in the work on the new government quarter in Oslo centre by scaling down the Hammersborg Tunnel project on Ring 1. On behalf of the representatives of Une Bastholm, Lan Marie Nguyen Berg and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to set up a Solidarity Fund for aid, reconstruction and countering the food and energy crisis caused by the Russian invasion of Ukraine. On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a comprehensive plan to protect Norwegian coastal nature from nitrogen pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e289	The representative, Anna Molberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e294	On behalf of representatives Henrik Asheim, Alexander Stokkebø, Margret Hagerup, Sveinung Rotevatn, Dag-Inge Ulstein and myself, I would like to make a proposal to remove the obligation to leave the special age limit in Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e299	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegesters, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e304	On behalf of the representatives Andreas Shelg Unneland, Grete Wold and myself, I would like to make a proposal to develop alternative final evaluation forms for today's secondary and secondary education exams.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e309	The representative, Kirsti Bergstø, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e315	On behalf of the representatives of Ingrid Fiskaa, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes Freddy Andre Øvstegård, Marian Hussein, Andreas Sjalg Unneland and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a better working life for employees in the goods trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e320	The representative, Mr Larsen, would like to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e325	On behalf of the representatives of Trond Helleland, Charlotte Spruceland, Erlend Svardal Bøe and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on the approval of processing seats in an ambulance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e330	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e335	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Morten Stordalen, Tor André Johnsen and myself on rational regulation of camping cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e340	The representative, Mr Stokkebø, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e345	On behalf of representatives Henrik Asheim, Anna Molberg, Sveinung Rotevatn, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Margret Hagerup and I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative to use all the good forces to get people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e350	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e355	On behalf of Tor André Johnsen, Silje Hemdal, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal to strengthen civil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e360	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules. Before the items in the meeting card are taken up for processing, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon today. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e380	The President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group. In addition, lines are not given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e387	Let me first thank you for this initiative and for this draft representative. The presidency of the Great Britain has presented the innermost. 233 S for 2021 to 2022 on the proposal for a representative to deal independently with requests for access to documents of the Administration and Presidency of Storting. The proposal for a representative shall make the following proposal: ‘The Grand Duchy of Great Britain is asked to set up an independent committee to investigate and propose the creation of an independent Board of Appeal on matters of transparency in documents of the Administration and Presidency of the Grand Duchy’. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy indicates that 13 years have passed since the adoption of the current transparency rules. It may therefore be time to review these and assess the functioning of the rules in today’s society. The Presidency therefore warns in the vote that it will initiate an overall review of the Stortinges document disclosure rules. It is considered right that the ongoing investigation work and reviews initiated by the Storting should be completed first. In particular, there is a link between the design of the rules governing the financial arrangements of the representatives – which are a central part of the mandate of the Committee of Representatives – and the need for transparency and transparency in this area. The Presidency will therefore come back to a review of the transparency rules once these works have been completed. It may be right to set up an investigation committee for such a review. The Presidency of the Grand Duchy believes that the rules of appeal should be part of such an overall review of the transparency rules. In summary, we would like to thank you for this initiative. The Presidency will initiate an overall review of transparency and complaint. We think it's neat and correct that we do things in the right order. When we get so far that we're going to have this review of this, it will also be necessary that we have a good involvement of the different actors, so that everyone is listened to, because openness and trust are an important part of Storting's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e396	I get a snive of déjà vu in this treatment, because it's becoming kind of a pattern. There's a proposal in Stortinget; it's hard to get away from the fact that the proposal has something to do, but then you find a pass for not adopting or doing anything about it – at least not right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e401	Today, Rødt's proposal that the Presidency should set up an independent selection to investigate and propose an independent review board on matters of transparency of documents of the Administration and Presidency of the Storting. Today, the Storting manages the Community's resources and can potentially deny the Community the necessary transparency in how this is done. It triggers some important fundamental issues, such as: jusprofessor Eirik Holmøyvik has commented on the evening post: ‘In the light of the latest cases of commuting, the Stortinget must ask whether, in the interests of confidence in the Stortinget, they should establish an independent review body in matters of document transparency of the administration of Stortinget or regulate the stability of the regulation of the Stortinget.’ The attitude of the presidency today is not to adopt the Red's proposal. As we all know, the issues of the financial arrangements for depositors – both commuting homes, travel bills and remuneration – have received a lot of attention in recent years. This has been a bad PR, but it has also been necessary and correct because schemes have both been misused and misdesigned. Therefore, a major review has been initiated, but in the presidency setting it is used as a reason not to start a work called for by Red for the transparency rules, before the review has been completed. It means – as far as I can understand – only in a year's time. Although our proposal has been updated by commuting houses and the financial arrangements, work on ensuring the necessary transparency of the documents in the Stortinget should not depend on the ongoing review. Because it's a fundamental question, and the answer has to keep water completely independent of the current changes in the different schemes. The rules must ensure the necessary transparency at all times about the different aspects of the work of the Storting and the use of Community funds, whether it be commuting homes, travel bills, after-sales or other matters. Therefore, Red still believes that the work can start now, by creating a selection that needs to work independently of today's system, and which proposes an independent review body. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is good that the presidency sees the need for a review of the transparency rules by providing – or alerts – a comprehensive review of the Stortinge's rules of document disclosure and also notes that there is a selection to investigate this. We take that as a first pass for the public interest. We look forward to the further process and should follow closely how this is followed up as we get something tangible out of the review that can ensure the necessary transparency and thus the system also has legitimacy. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e410	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposals he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e429	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group. In addition, lines will not be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e437	(The chairman and rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, this slightly unusual case began with a letter from the Norwegian Nobel Institute to the Stortinget describing an economic operating situation for the challenging institute. The question of financial support for the Nobel Institute is clearly a complicated and difficult question for us. I don't think there's any doubt that the entire Norwegian people see the value of the Nobel Institute's work and the significance of the price, both for us and for the world, but whether it's going to get political, financial support is a completely different question. I respect those who believe that there must be completely watertight shots between the Storting and the Institute, also financially. The majority in the Committee and in the Council sees the issue slightly different, in the sense that one can say yes to one-off aid, but provided that it is done in a manner that is reliable and maintains and ensures the Nobel Institute's independence and integrity by one hundred percent. I think that's going to be possible, but that means that the Nobel Institute has a little bit of work ahead of it. They have to set up a fund, as we suggest in the setting. As long as it's done in a satisfactory way, the majority of the parties in this room open up so that there can be a one-off support to ensure a sustainable economy in the future. This is a solution that makes you drop permanent financial bonds, which I think would be very unfortunate. It had opened up to increase or reduce support based on political opportunism, and it would be totally unsustainable. This also allows us to clean up some of the support that has been given to the Nobel Institute. An annual allocation shall be made to the library activities there. It may be that it can be removed and replaced by this one-off aid, so this may also be an opportunity to clean up some of the things that have been done in the past. An important premise for the matter is also that the Municipality of Oslo has notified support for and interest in participating in this solution. It's very joyful and absolutely necessary for this to come into being. I look forward to working on the matter further after the decision today – meeting the actors, putting us together and finding a good solution. When we have a system that's satisfactory in place, the parties in this room have committed themselves to taking the next step, that's to make a one-off grant. I hope and believe that can happen within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e452	Let me first take up proposal No. 1, which is distributed, and which sounds like this: ‘The report rejects direct financial support to the Nobel Institute in order to ensure the independence of the Nobel Committee from the political authorities and refers to the good opportunities of sponsors such as private foundations and companies for fixed sponsorship agreements.’;» So we're outlining a different solution here than what the majority of the committee is doing, and I think that makes sense if we're going to try to ensure the real independence of the Nobel Committee. In the past, the majority in this room have been very keen to ensure this independence – concerned that a team of alternate representatives of the Storting could not be elected to the Nobel Committee. In a way, I really think it might have been a good solution for those who signed it, because if I had been elected when I was a candidate for the Nobel Committee, I wouldn't have stood here today. I have to interpret it your way that the big crowd wanted Carl I. Hagen in Stortinget rather than in the Nobel Committee. When I go through and think about this, I'm really grateful, because now I have a lot to do on my older days. I have filled my mind with work and not just meetings occasionally in the Nobel Committee, which had been the alternative. Of course, I also hope that the majority in this room is satisfied with the result of the vote that was a few years ago. I believe that if the Nobel Institute and in particular the Nobel Committee had asked for and examined opportunities for fixed sponsorship agreements – I mention in my particular comment, for example. Free Word, which has not been requested, the Saving Bank Foundation, Equinor and other major corporations – would probably be quite a lot, when we look at all the sponsors who are now on the TV screen also for the NRK, very much interested in providing a solid grant to the Nobel Institute, so to be a proud sponsor of the Nobel Committee, who awards the internationally known Peace Prize. The Nobel Institute has also become quite big when the main work is actually picking out a winner of the Peace Prize. There should actually be something that three-four people could do, without having the big institute. The majority write, I think, a slightly strange remark. On page 3 of the setting: ‘The majority are aware that the Stortinge finances other independent activities, such as the courts, through annual appropriations, without being considered problematic for their independence.’ The independence of the Court of Justice shall be guaranteed by law. It's in the Constitution. I guess no one thinks that you should put in the Constitution that the Nobel Committee is independent, so that the courts, which are part of the state's power apparatus, the third state power, are compared to the Nobel Committee, I think it's a little strange. I understand the committee's chairman and the case rapporteur who says that this is a one-off amount, but it is a very large one-off amount that is suggested. Since no appropriations have yet been proposed in this context, there must be a large one-off amount to cover annual fixed expenditure of the Institute, which has an appetite to grow, and which feels that when they are now financially secure, instead of trying to find any other solutions, the easiest thing to do is to go to the State and ask taxpayers for funding from benevolent politicians. That's where they've succeeded. I think it's a little sad for that independence. In my opinion, it is not useful to claim it in the time to come. It is, in fact, no longer present. They depend on the state and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e479	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e498	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e505	Initially, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for a good and thorough discussion of this matter. Although I feel that there are real differences of opinion between the various minorities and the different majority in the case, I appreciate as the case rapporteur that we have been able to deal with the matter with the respect it deserves. I would also like to take this opportunity now to express my deepest condolences to those who have been the victim of Nav's mispractice of residence requirements related to travel in the EEA region. This is a mispractice that extends over several years and is devastating for the freedom to travel, work and stay throughout the EEA territory. As a convinced European and defender of the four freedoms of the European Union, I take a clear distance from all forms of mispractice that weakens these rights. The proposers justify their proposal because it is important to ensure that the victims of the Nav scandal are provided with the documentation they need to assess whether they have legal claims that are worth pursuing. Although I understand the wishes of the proposers for this, I would like to stress that the Stortinget does not currently have a control matter for consideration, and that therefore the Stortinget does not have a basis for asking for transparency in the report of the proposers to have it delivered. As an additional element, I would like to emphasise that an overall committee has expressed the view that the Storting should be cautious in asking for access to documents containing internal discussions within the government. As the head of the Nav audit has concluded that the investigation on the export of welfare benefits does not deal with matters of mispractice, I and Left have concluded that the transparency threshold is not met, even if the Stortinget had established a new control case. Furthermore, I believe it is appropriate to point out that the document requested is not managed by the Støre government, but is managed by former Prime Minister Erna Solberg. It is therefore not right to ask the government that it should hand it over. In addition to the fundamental question of whether this is a report the Monitoring Committee may ask for transparency, and who in that case will have to deliver it, there are also other reasons why this document will not provide the victims of the Nav scandal with any new knowledge to help them with possible replacement cases. In fact, this interim report has been read by the chairman of the sample, who wrote the much-mentioned NOU 2020: 9 The Blind Zone – Examining the mispractice of the requirements of the Swedish Social Security Act when travelling in the EEA territory. Professor Finn Arnesen has previously stated that all the victims need to know about the content of the interim report is mentioned in this NOU. He also pointed out that the internal report was aimed at cases where the beneficiaries resided abroad, and not at cases relating to the case of mispractice. I would like representatives from all parties to take the selection leader's opinions more seriously. I want to highlight this because it is a mistake to believe that this interim report will give the victims of the Nav scandal something new that is not already illuminated in the mentioned NOU. It is little different from giving false hopes to demand insight into a report that there is no reason to believe will shed new light on these matters, and that will help no one either. I hope today's case will put a finishing line to the discussion on this report, that all political parties in this room are using their energy to ensure that a scandal like this will never happen again, and that those who have fallen victim to the mispractice are guaranteed fair compensation in their individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e520	I want to take the floor to underline a central point in some of the majority comments in the case. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that during the control case we, together with the Centre Party, SV and Rødt, requested the transmission of the report ‘Exports of welfare benefits’ in 2014. The majority noted that the then State Council rejected the request on the grounds that the report was an internal document and that the practice was that such documents were not submitted. The Ministry had also previously, in the examination of the case by the Control and Constitutional Committee, refused to forward two other documents relating to the Committee's case concerning the presentation by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the practice of EU Social Security Regulation 883/2004 Article 21. The majority, i.e. the majority who dealt with that matter, disagree with the description of what was practice by the then Council of State. In their reply to the Committee of 23 November 2020, they warn of what might arise as a new practice, which distorts which documents may be sent to the Stortinget. Both the Harberg Committee and the Constitution § 75 f provide the Stortinget with the opportunity to obtain access to all documents held by the administration through plenary decisions. The proposer writes in the draft representative: ‘The cancellation shall not deal with the victims’ claims itself, but the Storting may ensure that the victims are provided with the documentation they need to assess whether they are entitled to be prosecuted. A first step is that the report is handed over to Stortinget, so that the Storting itself can assess the need to take further decisions in the Chamber to ensure that the victims are provided with the necessary documentation.’ The majority of the Committee considers this matter to be different from that of the Stortingen dealing with the control case. The majority consider that there is a fundamental difference between the Storting’s request for transparency of use for its control activities and the Storting’s request for transparency in order to contribute to the publication of the document for use in an ongoing legal process, as advocated by the proposers. The transparency of the size of control cases shall not be used to ask the government to provide relevant documentation in ongoing cases. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it would not be right to publish the document in question in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e536	I will be brief, but just report from the Right that we are joining the previous speakers and the position they have promoted from the Chair. I would also like to join the rapporteur's very good clarification that this is not about the Nav case and our view of it and the seriousness of it – it is a matter of great seriousness. This is a more fundamental procedural issue, a little bit on the side of the Nav case. So in short, we're going to end up with the rationale. The right of access to size is linked to our control work. As of today, no systematic verification work is carried out on this matter, and the question must be raised in this case. We must also be able to say that if it had been a control case, I cannot – as the matter stands now – see that the threshold that we have talked about in the past is exceeded. The content of the report is known through an earlier NOU. Let's trust the explanation that former government council Tajik gave at that point. It is also known that the report relates to social security beneficiaries who are permanently resident abroad, and thus ends up on the side of what the Nav case was primarily about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e547	It is only three weeks since we are dealing with the Harberg selection of the Storting's control function and the Storting's right of access according to the Constitution § 75 f. Then we decided that the Storting's right of access to control matters, as it has been since 1814, applies to all public documents in the administration. In the management of the social security scandal, we were busy seeing the report of the Interministerial Working Group from 2014. It states that the EEA Agreement grants permission to reside in other EEA countries as long as the requirement for activity and contact with the establishment is fulfilled. The report showed that the government already knew that the people's protection laws were wrong, and that the government had breached the information obligation of the Stortinget by submitting legislative proposals requiring suspension in Norway in breach of EEA law. The report of the working group is professional assessments from the department. The report is not covered by the particular concerns of Storting's transparency in documents containing discussions which form part of the College of Government's internal discussions. Therefore, Solberg’s government’s reason for not sending the report to the committee in 2020 was error. The transparency of the store in control matters applies when Stortinget handles a control case. No resize handle action has been performed. Therefore, there is no basis for requesting transparency of the report at this time. Last Friday, the Stortinget received a bill from the government to change the people's protection laws so that withdrawals in Norway and other EEA countries are treated equally for those who received sick pay, redundancy payments and care. It has been clear that the social security scandal was not a mispractice of the law – it was a promise that was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e560	Let me first take up the proposal of the minority, which I suppose is the first time I do on behalf of the Red Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party, and the proposal reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget the interministerial investigation ‘Exports of welfare benefits’ from 2014 with its annexes.’ I would argue that the Storting should be given the opportunity to go through these documents, absolutely part of Storting's control work. It will verify and identify whether it has been such that the country has actually known and had knowledge that the practice used in demanding that beneficiaries of Nav’s aid residing abroad or temporarily residing abroad should not be paid was illegal. It is then revealed later. The question is as to compensation: Did the State really know that what they did was illegal? That could be a central point. We don't know if this report will clarify anything about this. The majority claim that the sample that made the blind zone report has had full access to it. But that does not necessarily mean that in their assessment of the question of compensation and what is stated in the report, they have perceived it correctly. That's why we in the minority want the Storting to have access to it and actually control the state and the executive. It's not about publication. It's a matter of the Storting being given access to it, and if that transparency shows that the majority is right, that it has no significance for any matter, nothing happens anymore. However, if it proves to be significant, it will be possible to make other proposals for the Grand Duchy, possibly in connection with its use in the cases to be brought before the Court. That's something you'll come back to at a later stage, after the Storting has had insight. I find it sad that the majority did not agree to ask for transparency. It has been a very long time since the Constitution § 75 f, which gives the Stortinget in plenary the right to all documents of the government, has been used. Here there's a big difference that the Storting is by decision in plenary that has the right to all documents. In other matters, we will discuss the extent to which this is to be delegated to others, but in this case the majority of the majority in plenary could have asked by decision for decisive evidence in order to carry out the control activities of the Storting. Let me say that I disagree with the chairman of the committee, who says that this is not about the Nav issues. That's exactly what it does. It is a question of transparency of the necessary documents to see whether the processing of these cases is correct or whether important information has been withheld for those who are currently bringing legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e578	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to. So we can think about whether it's exciting that one with this long speed does something for the first time on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e585	This is a matter which has been discussed before, in the previous period, and which had a serious backtrace in two ways. Firstly, it is about the biggest legal scandal in modern Norwegian history, which has led to great suffering, great injustice, people who have been convicted and punished on a false basis. Very many people are differently affected, they have lost income, suffered overload and worn out their health. The fact that the basis for upliftment has been so difficult has made the situation even more difficult for many. Then the matter had one side, namely that the majority in the last period – we believe, and we also believe that in the light of the clarification of the practice the Stortinget has recently done, that it has to be established – has withheld the document we are talking about, on the wrong basis. So it's an interministerial investigation that can't be said to be protected by the usual understanding of internal working documents in a government. It is a document which should have been delivered to the Control Committee in the previous period. The significance of this document is that many people think there can be things there that will make it easier for the Nav scandal victims to raise cases in order to try their right to compensation for the broader economic, social and health consequences of the scandal. So that's going to mean compensation in addition to what you've got now, which is a coverage of the direct economic losers. I have not seen this document, so I cannot decide whether that information is there or not, but the uncertainty surrounding this makes the need for transparency around it still urgent. I believe that the majority when they say that this can't be done because there's no control case for treatment, is hiding behind what becomes a very square interpretation of the formalities. It is politically possible to do this in an extraordinary case, and I think it is frustrating for many of those who are concerned about this, to see that changing majority makes transparency not come into place. In the previous period, the Right Party and the Advance Party contributed to the non-delivery of the document. Now it is the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party that contribute to the non-delivery of the document. SV believes that this must be seen as an exceptional matter. I completely disagree that this is not about the Nav scandal. It's all about the Nav scandal and our view of its extraordinary nature, its extraordinary seriousness. Then I think there's reason to warn against not turning every possible stone in order to create the peace that justice gives. Justice is not just about the money that each person receives in return. Justice is also about knowing, getting the information you need, about transparency and about the experience of being met by the authorities with the seriousness and respect that the severity of this scandal requires. I believe that Stortinget would have done much better if we had now done what the minority suggests, and said: OK, this is not usual, but this case is also so unusual that it is reasonable that we now ensure that these documents become available, that we are told whether there is a basis on which people can bring redress on the basis of – to clarify what the authorities and the government knew. I think it's sad that what we see as questionable interpretations of the formalities, is now used to prevent it. The Nav scandal is not over, so let's remember that openness, showing as much openness as we can, is a very important contribution for people to experience that there will be necessary justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e598	Today we're going to decide if we're going to get the truth about the most comprehensive murder of the judiciary since the war on the table. That's what this is about. The Nav scandal is about Nav unjustly refusing many thousands of people benefits over several years. Nav demanded back benefits from several hundred of them, and at least 40 pst. of the cases ended with imprisonment and ruined lives for those who were affected. I can't believe that as elected representatives we're going to do anything but make sure to turn every stone to get all the facts on the table. That's our job. Many of these people have been unable to obtain income. In addition, the enormous burden comes for all those who have been unjustly reported and have had to zone. There is a lot of evidence that secrecy of the 2014 report prevents victims of the social security scandal from assessing their legal position. In addition, secrecy prevents the victims' right to know whether the mistakes they were made could have been avoided. The state has taken responsibility for covering the victims' financial losses, that's right, but that just means people are going to get the funds that Nav took from them. But the uprising of the state to destroy the mental health of the victims, tore their families apart or take away a worthy life is not to be given them. In order to be entitled to upliftment, it is necessary to establish serious negligence at the level of management, i.e. that the establishment or some over the building acted against better knowledge. We can't know that until we get all the facts and all the information on the table. The report Exports of welfare benefits can establish this. From this point of view, this is a professional report commissioned by the then Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson in 2014 and which, according to the Arntsen Committee, said that a claim for actual residence in Norway cannot be made applicable in the EEA. When Nav continued to break the rules, it could be that the department knew better. In 2020, the government parties of today, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party plus SV, then the Minister of Labour, Højres Henrik Asheim, sent it to the Control Committee, which he, as we know, refused. If everyone had done what they thought before the election, we would have received that report today. Therefore, Red has made proposals to have the report presented to Stortinget, and we are pleased that several parties – from the right side to the left – are involved. The proposal was met with non-water counter performances by former government councillor Hadia Tajik. First, she claimed that Erna Solberg managed her government documents. That is not really true, because this is a professional report from the Office and not a government note. Then she claimed that when the Arntsen committee got to see the report, Storting knows everything we need to know. It's also wrong, because it's just the Storing that can determine what we need to understand. Finally, she states that exports of welfare benefits are directed only at recipients who lived abroad. It is essentially irrelevant that the relevant EEA rules do not distinguish between short and long-stay stays. The problem is that not everyone does what they thought before the election. The government parties have found a new reason not to release the report now as they are in a position to do so, i.e. their own requirement for transparency in 2020 was correct and important, while our proposal as the Labour Party now has the Minister of Labour, and they can ensure a majority in favour of it, cannot be followed. Now it is said that the right of access of the Stortingen to the Constitution § 75 is to be used only «when Stortinget has a control case for treatment». I would like to ask the representatives of the majority parties: where in the name of all the world is it? This is not stated in the Basic Law § 75 f, nor in Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure. Of course, we can ask for transparency in this report. We are elected by the people and have been given authority to manage the people's will. The fact that the state on a continuous bond refuses the victims adjournment, I would say, is an argument that the Storting uses its right of access, not against. The size has to ask: if today we don't ensure clarity in what the department knew, who will do that, and when will you do that? And then, finally, I would like to say that the rapporteur mentioned that it is a mistake to believe that this report will shed light on the issues. How do you know that – really? Because we haven't seen the report. I don't know, I want to know, and I think we should demand to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e617	I am meeting here today because Stortinget has a case for the delivery of a document that was prepared in 2014 by, among others. the department I run today. The current document existed before I became a member of today's government, and before I was given responsibility for the board of directors of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. I have not read this document, and I do not have access to it either. Of course, it is up to those who are going to vote here today to decide on this matter that is for treatment. The proposal discussed here today has its origin in a very serious matter. Innocents have been affected, with great consequences for individuals and their families. It is important that those affected are cleared up in their cases. Anyone who feels that they are affected should feel that the threshold for contacting Nav is low. I assume that the individual cases have been – and will be – handled within the arrangements that are established. My responsibilities as the Council of State today include, inter alia: legislation on international social security coordination. I therefore mention – very briefly – that last Friday the government presented proposals for legislative changes in Prop. 71 L for 2021 to 2022. The proposals are a follow-up to the actions proposed by the Social Coordination Committee at NOU 2021: 8 Cross-border protection. The legislative proposals shall contribute to increasing the visibility and awareness of the international obligations relating to social security coordination. The proposals are now being discussed in depth in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, and this will form the basis for good discussions here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e629	No one has asked for the word in reply. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e636	Since the government parties are challenged directly, I think I'll take that challenge. The issue is definitely about the social security scandal. It is about those who were wrongly dealt with by a law that was not properly managed. The proposal is about getting a document out, but not about a control case. We in the Workers' Party stand firm for openness. I believe that the arguments put forward here are quite unreasonable. We've been busy creating a large, broad and unanimous majority around the Harberg Committee, and I'm actually proud of that. We will also discuss a matter on the Civil Service Ombudsman later. I'm proud that we're stuck on our transparency line. We are also concerned about this in the Hurdal platform. The issue of guilt that is crucial for upliftment is not a matter of size or we are going to deal with it through the control institute. This is a question for the court. The document in question may be the subject of legal proceedings, and it may also be possible to use it in legal proceedings. The Court of Justice may also have the opportunity to ask for it. Interestingly, the Progress Party is high and dark, because when we had the control case for treatment, the Progress Party did not even want to be on the letter sent by the Control Committee at the time. Then it was SV, the Center Party, Red and the Workers' Party that wanted to ask that we send this letter. The party of progress was not in that majority. Then you can discuss who has changed its position on this matter, and who it is that is established that this was an important document when the Stortinget dealt with the control case back in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e649	There is no doubt that this is a serious matter, but you have to look at the reason why you want the document out. It is quite right that the Stortinget in plenary can ask for such documents, and we should have got it when we deal with it last. But with the help of the Progress Party, there was no plurality to get the document out when one had the case for handling, and when the Control Committee could have benefited from this. The challenge today is that we can ask for documents, but we cannot ask for publication of the document. Whether or not to exclude the public domain, document owners decide. Nor can we take out a document for others to use; we need a document for our verification work. Now we don't have control work in this case, and then it's actually so that we can't make use of it. There is nothing in this proposal on how we should use this document if we get it out, so there must be a specific case in connection with whether we should be able to deal with such things and benefit from such a document. That's why I think it's wrong to do it this way. It was a shame we didn't get it out when we had the report for treatment. I would like to say that this proposal for a new law shows that the laws have our faults, and that has to be taken into account. Then there's a court case that has to evaluate how this is going to be handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e658	From the Workers' Party, questions were now asked about who has turned this case around. It is clear that the present big group of the Progress Party has a different view from that of the previous big group of the Progress Party. And there I would point to the Easter rule: it's no shame to turn around when you do it. But it is a shame to turn away from what makes sense to do the other thing, what the Labour Party is now doing in this case. Unfortunately, the Labour Party has turned around. It will also be interesting when, in one way or another, the Labour Party spokesperson was asked to try to obtain access to the necessary documents. It will be an interesting constitutional issue if a court addresses the government to deliver this interministerial working group report, which is now claimed by two governments to have something to do with government notes and the preparation of an internal government note. This is a professional working group from the ministries, and it is something quite different from what is meant to be protected by transparency in the case of government notes. But it'll be interesting if a court asks for this report to clarify it, and I assume that the lawyers to the Nav victims are actually making demands to the court to ask for transparency. Then it becomes an interesting problem. The majority of the majority of the population know that we have transparency, according to the Constitution § 75 f. There is no equivalent for courts, so it is interesting to know whether the courts can demand, as the Labour Party spokesperson now thought. Then we might get this case back in a slightly different context, if for example. a court asks for transparency — and it is refused. Then we can create a new control case and expect the Workers' Party's support to use the Basic Law §75 f.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e670	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e687	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e694	Let me first thank the Cooperation Committee. SV and Rødt promote in the vote three proposals, and they also have a loose proposal, which I expect they will take up on their own. The proposals relate to: to examine and propose the limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship, with some exceptions; to ask the Government to investigate a time limit for the handling of cases of revocation; to introduce a requirement of dual citizenship in order to withdraw a citizenship; For the right, it is important that it is high up to become a Norwegian citizen. For us, that's the end point of integration. This means being able to Norwegian and have understanding and knowledge of Norwegian society. And once you've become a Norwegian citizen, of course, it also takes a lot more to withdraw it. I also believe that everyone sitting in this room is in complete agreement. That is why, on a proposal from the Solberg Government, the Stortinget also decided to introduce a proportionality assessment aimed at ensuring that citizenship should not be withdrawn where there were unreasonable results. If a person has lived in Norway for a long time, it will do more to withdraw a citizenship than if they have lived in Norway for a short time. Similarly, if the underlying error is of minor importance and the person actively cooperates with the Norwegian authorities in order to clarify his own identity, it will also need to do more to withdraw citizenship. It was also important for the Solberg government to ensure that children and grandchildren should not, as a clear general rule, have to deal with the consequences of mistakes made by their parents or grandparents. However, although there is a high threshold for withdrawal, the Right considers that it must be possible for Norwegian authorities to withdraw a citizenship, even regardless of the length of the person’s residence and citizenship in Norway. Persons who have actively provided false information to the Norwegian authorities about who they are and people who have different identities in different countries or who use different identities to commit crime must also be able to be deprived of their citizenship in Norway. If the Norwegian authorities do not have the opportunity to intervene when they know that there is an incorrect identity, I also believe that this would weaken the notoriety of Norwegian documents. In conclusion, to be honest, I would say that I really do not understand how the proposal from SV and Rødt provides for a limitation period when so many exceptions are to be made, which is exactly what this proportionality assessment takes into account today. If it were to be a limitation period, it would be thought that it meant that it was a time when citizenship could no longer be revoked. The proposal put forward by SV and Red today is, in principle, that it should continue to be retractable, even after the deadline has expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e719	The Labour Party and the Central Party consider that it was important to make the assessment of proportionality related to the withdrawal of citizenship, as a unanimous decision was adopted in 2019. In 2019, the Stortinget decreed that citizenship should not be revoked if, in view of the gravity of the matter and the relationship between the person and Norway, it would be disproportionate to the person himself or to the members of the immediate family. The preparatory work of the law specifies that residence time and degree of integration should be taken into account in this proportionality assessment. If grossly incorrect information has been provided, e.g. in the case of nationality, it shall do more to assess withdrawal as disproportionate than if less serious incorrect information has been provided. The preparatory work also refers to two cases where there is a great deal to be done in order to consider a decision on revocation to be disproportionate. This applies to cases where a person has deliberately and actively used more than one identity or committed serious crime. Withdrawals of citizenship under the second paragraph of Section 26 may be made even if the person becomes stateless. This is not contrary to Norway’s international obligations. However, if long-term state unemployment would be a consequence of the withdrawal, this shall be a factor in assessing the proportionality of the withdrawal. It was also laid down that citizenship acquired by persons under 18 years of age on the basis of incorrect or incomplete information provided by parents or grandparents should not, as a general rule, be withdrawn. The Government has recently obtained a briefing from the Directorate for Foreign Affairs on practices in matters relating to the withdrawal of citizenship for children. The briefing confirmed that the legislation is being practised in such a way that, as a general rule, children are not deprived of citizenship because of the wrong behaviour of their parents or grandparents. However, when a withdrawal of citizenship occurs, it is because the child is not closely related to Norway. In brief, the UDI has stated that this happens exceptionally and after a concrete assessment in cases where the child has never lived in Norway, has moved from Norway or is in kindergarten or younger and has no independent relationship with Norway. We believe that the government should consider a similar review of practice in relation to the proportionality assessments of recalls of citizenship in order to ensure that the intentions of the legislator with the 2019 amendment are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e736	I would like to start by thanking the case rapporteur for his good work on this matter in the Committee's proceedings, and I can also join the rapporteur's speech, mainly. Because if you look at it a little bit, the Norwegian society in general is based on trust. We learn from the fact that we're small, until we get old, that it's worth acting honestly and fairly. This value has continued as a red thread in our state processes, and mutual trust between state and citizens has been absolutely essential in the design of systems, laws and customs. On the other hand, it should never be profitable to act dishonestly and dishonestly. We never reward those who try to take shortcuts in our systems. We also have our own punishments for those who try to cheat the state – not only because it is illegal, dishonest and dishonest, but also because it affects other people if we do not. Being a Norwegian citizen is one of the most valuable things we can give someone – without me going to mention it, as all of us in this room benefit from the good citizenship actually gives. In these troubled times, the value of Norwegian citizenship, meaning a life of peace, tranquillity and security, is also reflected in a relatively carefree life with countless opportunities compared to other countries. If, in practice, an applicant for citizenship of Norway has acted unfairly and dishonestly by providing false information to the authorities, it is not only a violation of the law, but also a breach of the trust-based value that we have worked beyond generations, in the view of the Progress Party. When an applicant is granted citizenship and is granted this on the information provided by the applicant himself, the applicant must also take the consequences of the incorrect information it provides. Not only does this happen once, we also often see the lie repeated several times throughout the asylum process. If the applicant has supplied incorrect information or withheld decisive information, the general rule should be to withdraw citizenship. Nothing else is more right and fair than just this. Citizenship is revoked and given to someone who is actually entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e747	This proposal has been promoted by Red and SV because we see an obvious unfairness. When we as politicians see it, we actually have to act. It is as it was said: In 2019, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the Civil Code by legislating that a proportionality assessment should be made in the event of withdrawal of citizenship. It was also decided that the withdrawal of citizenship should be dealt with at a meeting with a personal appearance. Of course, the intention of the amendment was to strengthen legal certainty, to ensure that children do not lose Norwegian citizenship because parents or grandparents have provided incorrect or undocumented information. It was then decreed that Norwegian citizenship should not be revoked where there is a strong connection with the kingdom, precisely because it would be a disproportionate intervention both for individuals and for their families. Both the then Council of State and other politicians were aware of the need to show a great deal of discretion, and the length of time spent in and the connection with the kingdom must be stressed. It was emphasised that there is a lot to recall – yes, much more than having provided incorrect information. We're talking about crime, actively using two identities, or having been a security risk to the country. Only the ID doubt was not the basis. Policy until now has shown something else. We see in the media several issues where this is not the level of discretion. We're getting a message from lawyers, we're getting a phone call from desperate children and grandchildren. This does not seem reasonable or proportionate. This shows that we need a deadline. So you can imagine that putting on a practice other countries have can be a good or less good idea, but we would probably, with our deadline, become one of the strictest countries in this area -- to the extent that there is any point to be. If you were to leave in ten years, which is also the same as gross fraud, it would in any case be a longer deadline than most other countries have. That shouldn't be unreasonable. In the case of children who cannot be deprived of citizenship, only where it is considered that they do not have a strong relationship with Norway, the UDI states that this only happens exceptionally. That's absolutely right. So I would say that there are not the number of children who are going to be decisive for a legislative change. It is a principle of equal treatment. It is reasonable and proportionate, and for the children concerned it has serious consequences, which in itself must be emphasised. The best of the child should be given heavier weight. SV therefore believes it is time to change the law so that we get a deadline, with the exceptions already mentioned. We should also consider a time limit for notice and a legislative proposal to introduce double nationality requirements upon withdrawal. I bring it up with the suggestions SV is part of, including our loose proposal on resource use in the UDI in our situation now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e768	The representative Grete Wold has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e773	In 2019, changes were made to the national law such as: statutory for a proportionality assessment to be carried out in the event of withdrawal of citizenship. I guess that's good. The intention of introducing this proportionality assessment was to strengthen the legal certainty of persons at risk of having their citizenship withdrawn. This change in the law would ensure that people with long living and strong ties with Norway — whether through family, job, friends or networks — would not be deprived of their citizenship even if they had provided incorrect information. It is only that long residence and strong ties to the kingdom do not weigh heavily enough for whether or not a person is allowed to withdraw his or her citizenship. It appears that, once again, so-called immigration-regulating considerations are the most important considerations, where the penalty is to lose the citizenship of the country in which you live and, in the worst case, to be expelled. In very many cases, this has affected children, and once again, we see that the best of children is not given enough attention. In the last two years, UDI has revoked the citizenship of 44 children, despite the fact that we know that this should not be the general rule. As a general rule, if you are a child, you should not have your citizenship withdrawn or withdrawn. In other cases, there are parents who get their citizenship revoked and who are also at risk of being thrown out of the country. Like Omar Sayedahmad, who, after 14 years in Norway, had to leave his Norwegian wife and his two children because he had provided insincere information when he came here. But who is the one who loses most here? The family and the children, who are not allowed to grow up with Dad near them. Things like this do not belong in Norway. I can't believe there's going to be such a big difference between a violation of the penal code and a violation of the foreign law. The limitation period is used in criminal law and in several other contexts. If I, for example, had committed an act, it would have become obsolete over time, but if I had provided incorrect information on arrival and in an asylum procedure, it would never have been forgotten. Therefore, Red and SV promote this proposal, a proposal to issue a limitation period for the withdrawal of citizenship. Like both Germany and Finland, both of which have a five-year period for the withdrawal of citizenship after it has been granted, we believe that Norway should also introduce a similar deadline. It is disappointing that the political majority here today will vote against this proposal. By doing so, the majority of people with strong links with Norway are failing. Most fail children who know no country other than Norway. The majority fail families who have their lives here, who have their jobs here, and that's search. With that I refer to the proposals Red is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e788	The left has provided comments on this matter which underpin a different view from that of the majority in relation to citizenship. The Council of State is in its letter to the Committee, inter alia: admitted that a limitation period may lead to the applicant who has provided incorrect information continuing to maintain an incorrect identity. This I want to grasp a little bit. I would say that the Civil Code grants any right to citizenship upon application if the applicant has clarified his identity. The identity is clarified if it is evident that the documents submitted demonstrate the correct identity of the applicant. The left assumes that the Directorate for Foreign Affairs is doing a thorough job of assessing applications for citizenship and considering all the matters required by law. When the directorate finds that the identity is clearly identified — yes, the threshold for revoking such a decision should also be very high. The starting point is that we have to trust what the directorate actually does. It was also the intention of Stortingen when we, as several have pointed out here in the Chamber today, adopted the rule of proportionality assessment, because we saw that in the very few exceptions where it would be possible to revoke, other aspects of such an assessment should be taken into account. The general rule must be that the identity is clarified when citizenship is granted. It is also reasonable to set a limit on the subsequent withdrawal of such a decision and the proportionality assessment should take account of that time. But when we gradually get more and more examples that the proportionality assessment might not work after what was the overall intention of this hall, I think it is right to make a thorough investigation of whether our intention was respected at the time, and see if we should now introduce an actual deadline. And to the Right, who believes that this will weaken the notary: there is no reason to say that the law with a clear starting point and an established, clever exception, which we have in very many other areas, and which other countries have, will weaken the notority. I have no faith in that. That is why the Left will vote in favour of the proposal No. One, two, three. In addition, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 4, with a background on the resource situation we're in, with everything happening in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e801	Withdrawal of citizenship is an interventional decision which may have a major impact on the person concerned. A unanimous increase therefore decided in 2019 to legislate an assessment of proportionality in the cases. In the assessment of proportionality, the relationship between the citizen and Norway is weighed against the seriousness of the relationship. There shall be a reasonable relationship between the intervention and the burden on the person and the immediate family of the withdrawal of citizenship. Residence time and time since the granting of citizenship shall be given priority in the assessment of proportionality, but is not alone sufficient to prevent withdrawal. Other factors will also have meaning, such as the degree of integration and the seriousness of the relationship. All relevant considerations shall be weighed against each other. Considerations in favour of a limitation period relate in particular to cases where incorrect information on identity has been provided to Norwegian authorities. These may be cases where a person deliberately and actively uses different identities or has committed serious crime. In such cases, very much until the withdrawal of citizenship can be considered to be disproportionate. There may also be cases where persons maintain an incorrect identity with the authorities and actively oppose the clarification of their identity. A limitation period could result in a number of persons retaining Norwegian citizenship and Norwegian passports with incorrect identity. It's unfortunate. The cases should be assessed individually and in concrete terms. I believe that an assessment of proportionality is better suited to prevent unreasonable withdrawal outcomes than a limitation period. Cases of revocation of citizenship are highly resource-intensive to be dealt with. The administration has an obligation under the administrative law to inform matters as best as possible before a decision is taken. Although it may have negative consequences for a person to withdraw the case on time, there is a need for control and for the legal certainty of the person against the introduction of a time limit for the application of proceedings. Persons will have all the rights of a Norwegian national in the period leading up to a decision. A time limit for proceedings could lead to an increase in the number of people living in Norway with an incorrect identity. Statelessness as a consequence of withdrawal is part of the proportionality assessment. Prolonged state unemployment may mean that the withdrawal of citizenship is disproportionate. UDI states that statelessness is rarely a topic of affairs, because most people have dual citizenship. There have been cases where persons have separated themselves from their original citizenship to be stateless. The imposition of a double nationality requirement for withdrawal could increase its presence. It speaks against the introduction of such a requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e828	Thank you to the Council of State for a good post, to which I can largely join. My question is about the time of proceedings. In the transition to a new law, there may sometimes be challenges in adapting to a new law. Some of the feedback we receive is that the processing time in this type of case is sometimes quite long. Does the State Council have any plans to take action to reduce the processing time in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e835	First, I would like to make it clear that with the elements that have emerged in the course of the debate, I consider a review of how proportionality is practised in order to ensure that the intentions of the legislator with the proposal are respected, in line with what is stated in the Workers' Party and the Central Party's remark. The UDI is entirely dependent on the right information to be provided by applicants. The system is very much based on trust. Failure to provide a person with the correct identity may take a long time to discover. But it's unfortunate that things don't get clarified. I would also like to make it clear that although this law is my responsibility, the UDI is a body under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e844	We see that the law is strictly practiced, and it may seem that it also violates the legislator's intentions of proportionality and long residence. We receive enquiries from desperate people – parents and grandparents who have lived in Norway for many years, they have worked and paid their taxes, they have had children, even grandchildren. Then, perhaps many decades after they came to the country, they get their citizenship revoked. It's obviously unreasonably unreasonable for them and their closest. The SV's proposals are not adopted here today, but will the Council of State nevertheless work for a thorough review of practices, so that we ensure that the intentions of the legislator are followed up well?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e851	As I replied instead, I would of course consider reviewing the way in which the proportionality assessment is conducted, in order to ensure that the legislator's intention in the legislative proposal is respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e856	NOAS, the Norwegian asylum seeker organisation, has been familiarised with examples of cases where UDI withdraws citizenship after 30 years of residence in Norway. The people I refer to in this example relate to Norway for a long time, they have grown-up children, they have grown-up grandchildren and they have had Norwegian citizenship for 20 years. They have also not committed criminal acts during the period they have been here. The Labour Party decided that it was going to be a common people's turn. You can ask yourself if in this case it's the usual people's turn to be sent home to a country they haven't lived for over 20 years. According to the Council of State, this is in line with Storting’s intention to carry out a proportionality assessment such as: shall focus on long-term living and strong ties with the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e865	When applying for citizenship, the general rule is that the applicant should demonstrate his identity with passports and that he should have a proportionality in this respect. As I said, I would like to consider a review of how proportionality is practised, but according to my information, UDI and UNE practice the legislation in accordance with the framework laid down in the bill underlying the decision of the Storting. This provides that long periods of residence alone are not sufficient to prevent withdrawal. Long-term living must be weighed against other factors — the severity of the situation and the degree of integration. If a person opposes clarification of his or her own identity, he or she is in favour of revocation. It is in the most serious cases citizenship is recalled despite very long residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e870	When some people have been in Norway for 30 years, have children and adult grandchildren, have had a strong connection with the empire over a long period of living and have not committed criminal acts, I cannot quite understand what other considerations are more important than so-called immigration-regulating considerations. Is it true that the Council of State believes that immigration-regulating considerations are more important than allowing families to stay in Norway when they have been here for more than 30 years and have a strong connection with the kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e875	As I also said in the previous line, it is stated in the bill that was the basis of the decision of the Storting, that long residence alone is not sufficient to prevent withdrawal, and that it must be weighed against other conditions. I mentioned, among other things. the seriousness of the relationship and the degree of integration, and that, if the person opposes clarification of his or her identity, he or she is in favour of recalling it. It is in most serious cases citizenship withdrawn for a very long period of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e880	It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that long living alone cannot be the basis for not being able to recall. But in this room, and especially in the discussion of proportionality, there was a quite distinctly coherent magnification that said that very long living time should have significant weight. What we see more and more examples of is issues where questions can be asked about whether that intention is being followed. My question is, when I feel that the Council of State is now notifying me of a review, will she also look at this with a very long residence, that is when we talk about 15, 20, 30 years, also have to be part of what is being seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e887	When we consider how the proportionality assessment is practised, it is in order to ensure the legislator's intention to change the law and that it is respected. I feel that this with a long living time is also part of that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e892	No one else has asked for a line. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e900	The representative of Lønseth felt that the notoriety of Norwegian passports would be weakened. As the representative of Almeland was also involved, the answer to this is: Is it so that, for example, German or Finnish passports have a worse record, even if they have a limitation period? In Germany, no citizenship can be withdrawn if it is not done within five years of the granting of citizenship. In Finland, a limitation period of five years also applies. Red and SV ask the government to determine what such a model should have been like in Norway. Such a model may still have been more stringent than both Finland and Germany have. With regard to the Red and SV proposal, I need to make it clear that we also exempt those who abuse a Norwegian citizenship that they have got on the wrong premises, or actively use different identities to commit criminal acts. We therefore want to introduce a limitation period as a general rule, but in very special cases exceptions can be made. This will take care of the interests of society, while at the same time taking care of individuals. On 18 June 2021, the Ministry of Justice and Defence informed that at the time there were nearly 875 cases that had been waiting for more than one year for treatment, and that UDI spent 18.5 years working on these cases. The median duration of proceedings per 1st tertiary 2021 was 499 days. We know that the capacity of the UDI is now detonated because of the refugees from Ukraine. Therefore, Red believes that foreigners have far more important things to spend their time on than driving and digging in matters that concern people who have lived in Norway for decades. Is it the case that we should use resources to track down and deprive citizenship of people who have been here for a long time, who are – several of them – well integrated, who have family, children and grandchildren, spouse and job? Or is it that we should make better use of these resources, namely, to care for and meet the refugees who are now coming from Ukraine? Red and SV believe this and hope that we will receive support for our proposal, even if there is little evidence to suggest it. Nevertheless, it would have been a better resource use. In conclusion, I need to contact the representative of Wiborg. I think it is a bit polite that his former party colleague in this room, former representative Jon Engen-Helgheim, was much clearer in his mention when the proportionality assessment was discussed. Then he said, ‘The proportionality assessment shall take into account, inter alia: the seriousness of the relationship. If you have lived in Norway for 20 years, you made a mistake when you got it, and if you are well integrated today, it will be heavily emphasised in such a case.’ I register that the representative Wiborg believes otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e918	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e935	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e942	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good and Effective Cooperation. This may not be the most comprehensive case, but nevertheless a matter of principle that should be given a thorough review and treatment. The proposals from the Right have made a proposal for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act that will allow for the visit and examination of, for example: mobile phones during asylum registration, this is because they want to improve efficiency and to guarantee the individual’s identity, travel and, where appropriate, quality. connection to crime upon arrival. People who leave their own countries for different reasons go out on an uncertain and often dangerous journey. Not everyone you meet has honest intentions, and once you have fled from a situation of fear and remorse, it may be important that we meet the few who come to our small country, with respect, understanding and care. Then it is in everyone's interest to have a rapid and effective asylum registration and get all the information as early as possible — and as gentle as possible. No one wants people who do not have legitimate grounds for seeking asylum to get it on the wrong basis. But going from there to assuming that those who come do not have a legitimate cause and tell the truth – although many do not have enough papers – becomes a suspicion. Routinely, without cause for suspicion, searching people and reviewing electronic devices such as mobile phones – which we all know are very personal – would be ethically unacceptable. Today, we have the authority to carry out the necessary investigations to determine whether there is a suspicion or an indication that someone is hiding information. This may be done either by consent or by judicial decision. So where there is a need, there are possibilities. It is not necessary to do this to anyone who comes to ask for protection from us. The hearing bodies support this. NOAS and Judicial Association are highly critical. A senior advisor to the Data Protection Authority says that the proposal is too intrusive. Privacy and privacy standards are challenged. We can't have one standard for our own inhabitants and another for those who come to us. A principle of equality and fundamental case-law must always be founded. Finally, it might be mentioned that this might affect those who have a justified need for protection. Those who apply to us for other reasons are likely to have brought this rule, and are also likely to have gotten rid of a mobile phone and its equivalent before they reach the border. The desired effect will therefore be lost. SV therefore does not support the proposal, and we have the authority today to reveal what we need, where there is suspicion of hiding something. We are also pleased that the government and the Minister of Justice share this view, and that this is followed up in an announced bill in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e959	The right to seek asylum and protection from persecution is a fundamental human right. Norway must show solidarity and take responsibility for people on the run. Good systems to identify the need for protection and the identity of asylum seekers are important in order to maintain the legitimacy of the asylum system in the long term – this because the public must have confidence that those who are staying in Norway actually have a need for protection. If incorrect information is used to obtain residence in the kingdom and the authorities are unable to detect it, it would undermine the fact that those who actually need protection are given it. The Workers' Party and the Centre's Party consider that there are several specificities of the asylum registration situation which argue that investigations and seizures of electronic devices may be necessary and proportionate. At the same time, it is clear that this poses privacy and integrity challenges. The previous government had this proposal at the hearing already in 2017, but no legislative proposal was made for the Stortinget. The letter of reply from the Minister of Justice and Defence points out that the previous government did not complete the necessary discussions in order to present a final legislative proposal, and that the Ministry will therefore come back to Stortinget when it has been possible to prepare a clear and balanced legislative proposal to meet both the needs of the authorities and the integrity of the individual. Earlier this week, the Minister of Justice and Security has announced that the Government intends to present a legislative proposal in the first half of May of this year on the visitation and investigation of asylum seekers in connection with asylum registration, etc. In this context, we are in the position of the majority behind the proposal that the procedure for carrying out visits and examining asylum seekers should not be adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e974	I must say that I am pleased that today's Right in practice is getting a full impact on our proposal to introduce an authorisation to routinely search and investigate asylum seekers and their electronic storage units in connection with asylum registration. It is very positive that the Council of State has warned us that she will promote a bill on this in May, and of course we look forward to receiving treatment. It is important that we have a healthy and effective asylum registration. Those who come to Norway and seek protection here will be given protection if they are entitled to protection. Police and foreign agencies need tools to quickly clarify their identity and residence. There are then several factors that may be relevant for getting an overview. This could be about, for example: travel routes, contact networks in the home country and whether or not criminal activity has been linked to mentioning something. The right to apply for asylum ensures that people who have been persecuted, fear persecution or inhuman treatment in their home country can stay here. This means that, to a large extent, it is who you are, who decides whether you get asylum in Norway or not. This is precisely why ID clearance is important on arrival in Norway, to decide whether to stay or not. It can be very stressful for the foreign authorities if there are a lot of people over time without travel documents to prove their identity. From previous years we know that each year is 90 pst. coming to Norway without valid travel documents, making it more difficult and time consuming for the foreign authorities to decide whether or not to allow the applicant to stay. If there are many who come without correct documents, it is also easier to give false information about their identity, and we risk that people who do not have a right to protection in Norway will get it. In those cases where false information is subsequently revealed, there is also a risk that some may have been here for many years and have become associated with Norway, making it more burdensome to leave the kingdom again. Good tools to clarify identity, as this proposal puts it, are therefore very important. The consultation round when the Solberg government sent this proposal to the hearing showed that heavy hearing bodies such as UDI, UNE and PST also agree that this type of proposal is needed. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e991	The representative Mari Holm Lønseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e996	I would also like to thank the rapporteur on this matter. The proposal under consideration will obviously enhance the access of foreign authorities to information on electronic units belonging to individual non-residents. This will enhance the likelihood of a more accurate decision-making basis for subsequent decisions, and it will facilitate the workload and resource use by avoiding obtaining equivalent information from other and less accessible sources. The Progress Party supports this proposal, as it increases the effectiveness of the Foreign Administration and acknowledges that the decisions taken by the Foreign Administration are based on the right facts. The latter is particularly important not only for individual foreigners, but also for Norway as a nation, that we know who is in the country. Another positive effect of the proposal could be to alleviate some of the burden in the courts. If you also take a look at the matter we're dealing with instead, the many of the dilemmas that you get if people stay and eventually citizenship based on incorrect information. That is why the Progress Party believes that we should support proposals that contribute to the correctness of the information. Had it not been unparliamentary, I would say that the views of some parties in this and more asylum cases are naive. Fortunately, we now see that the government announces that they will make their own proposition to the Stortinget with this. We'll see exactly what it contains, but when you look at the parties that today's government has chosen to lean on, you can see that they don't necessarily take inward that there are people who want to get to Norway and have dishonest purposes, people who want to give false information to get into Norway. It's not something we can take easy on. It is clearly about the security of everyone in Norway, but it is also about the entire asylum system. You can have big debates about where to find the list of people who will be able to stay, but if there's something we need to make sure, it's that those who are allowed to stay actually get it according to the rules, based on correct information. That is why the Progress Party, together with the Right, is behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1009	The President would point out that when the representative knows that it is unparliamentary, one should remain too good to say so, despite attempts at rewriting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1014	The proposal from the Right to introduce a permit to routinely search and investigate asylum seekers in the context of asylum registration is of the opinion that Red is unnecessary. I would like to highlight the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who back in 2017, warned against introducing such routine investigations, even though it may appear legitimate in some cases. That's something I think we should listen to. That something may be necessary in some cases does not mean that in all cases one should do so and make it a standardised routine, at least not when it comes to something as intrusive as this. Norwegian law already opens the door to visits when there are concrete points of view that foreigners hide information. These include: NOAS points out, today's system works well as it is. It therefore appears that it is not proportionate to introduce a routine visit to asylum seekers. This proposal is very intrusive. Whether you like it or not, our cell phones are one of the most personal things we have. They can say a lot about us, but they can also say a lot more than that, because it's through our cell phones that we can keep in touch with friends and family across borders, city boundaries, time zones and everything between. I can say with my hands on my heart that if I suddenly had to flee from everything I know and everything I have, my phone would be a very, very important thing to hold on to, also for the possibility of keeping in touch with the closest and dearest I have. Therefore, such an intervention in private life must be proportionate to the individual situation and must be justified as necessary, as permitted by law at present. We have to meet those who come here, with humanity and respect, even when they lack appropriate documentation. We who sit here in the hall, had not accepted, I think, that the police confiscate our phones as routine every time we travel abroad. I am therefore asking myself why we should expose vulnerable people to such treatment. My answer is that we shouldn't. A key element of good integration in Norway and its arrival should be building trust in the Norwegian community and in the Norwegian authorities. Very many of those who come here have low confidence in the authorities of the countries they leave, and that for good reason, for many of them come from oppressive and authoritarian regimes. Then I think that we should be too good to meet them with distrust as the very first thing they are met with. This, I think, would weaken the work of good integration, and I think it would be a bad policy to accept people coming to Norway. That is why Red is also voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1029	I want to start by saying that applying for asylum is a fundamental right that everyone we have. Being an asylum seeker in itself cannot be a basis for suspecting that information is being withheld or that it could have committed a criminal act. Furthermore, the possibility of detecting crime cannot justify routine access to the seizure of electronic storage units without grounds of suspicion. In the case of concrete suspicions that an asylum seeker is hiding information, there is already a right to conduct investigations that go beyond visits, but it requires either the consent of the foreigner or the decision of the court. These are important legal certainty barriers. In these days, many Ukrainian citizens are seeking asylum in Norway because of Russia’s invasion of the country. Many of these asylum seekers come to Norway with biometric passports or visas and are in an extreme situation of life. Routinely searching for such asylum seekers would be both burdensome and suspicious of an already vulnerable group and – perhaps less important, but nevertheless – unreasonable use of time and resources by Norwegian authorities. In addition, the proposal will have little practical significance, as many will only get rid of mobile phones, documentation and other before applying for asylum. Those who have something to hide from the police will probably succeed, despite such a further investigation home. I have noticed that the Minister of Justice says she will make a proposal on this already in May. I hope the Minister of Justice will take a fresh assessment of making such a proposal in such a short time. This is a matter that deserves careful treatment and consultation before it is presented to the Storting, especially when it comes to a matter matter and a legal area where there have been major and significant changes in recent times. I also notice that the Central Party and the Workers' Party in this case have intended to implement the policy proposed by the Advance Party and the Right before the Left joined the government, in 2017-2018, and therefore this policy did not become a reality. It just shows how similar these four parties are in terms of asylum seekers and immigration in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1044	We are seeing the importance of the right of asylum in these days. The right of asylum provides refugees who are driven by war and persecution, with an opportunity to save their lives through protection abroad. At the same time, asylum law is under great pressure because many people have strong motives for migration without fulfilling the right to international protection. It is expected by the population of a beneficiary country, such as Norway, that the authorities will monitor who is finally being protected and that the asylum rules will be protected from exploitation and abuse. This is essential in order to maintain confidence in and the emergence of the asylum system, which in turn gives us the opportunity to protect vulnerable people. Good control requires that thorough investigations can be carried out quickly. If a good check is not carried out initially, explanations and information may be adapted along the way and that documentation etc. be hidden from the authorities. Today's practice of visitation and investigation is based primarily on provisions for cases where there is doubt about the identity of the foreigner and on the consent of the foreigner himself, and I believe there is a need to clarify that investigations can be carried out for a broader purpose than this. It is important to identify the route, and it is important to identify information that may be relevant for assessing the credibility of the asylum declaration, which will subsequently become crucial. After the establishment of the National Arrival Centre, where applicants are accommodated in tent halls, and in the situation we now see, where there are many asylum seekers in the same place, there are also important security reasons to have good personal control. I see a clear need for a clear regulation of the framework for the visitation and investigation of electronic units, and the Ministry aims to promote a legislative proposal in the first half of May. The reason why it is important that we work well and carefully with this is that the bill must be clear and balanced, so that it meets the needs of the authorities and the integrity of the individual. It is necessary to take into account the need to safeguard privacy while providing the authorities with the information they need to make good judgements. I will come back to the various issues and considerations in the announced legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1064	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1069	Thanks to the Council of State for a good report and a good goodwill in the handling of the matter. In the Council's letter of reply, I think it is good, as she also said in her statement, that she explains that there must be some balances between privacy considerations and the need for efficiency and control. I believe that the bill that was sent at the consultation of the Solberg government also in a good way balances the dilemmas that the Council of State itself is addressing, but I also have a great understanding that, after the consultation round, you will include the recordings and you will get it in a good way. But my question is whether the Council of State shares my opinion that there is no need to make any very big changes after the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1078	As I said in my post, the government is busy making thorough and good judgements, and that is a question I will come back to when we present the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1083	I'm recording the state council coming back to Stortinget with a proposition, so we're looking forward to looking into the details around it. But one of the concerns about the proposal, which I and Red have, is that it will work against its purpose if the result is that asylum seekers coming to the border get rid of their mobile devices before they get here. This also loses the opportunity to review mobile phones. What does the Council of State think about that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1088	In this case and in assessing what control measures we are going to have, there are many different considerations, and the government is seeking to find the good balance between considerations that speak for more in-depth control than we have today, and considerations that speak against. This is also a question that will be more natural to answer when we present a bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1093	Initially, I notice that the Council of State says she wants to work well and carefully with this. I initially appreciate that, but at the same time I notice that she is in a hurry with a proposal that was in consultation quite many years ago, but in a legal area where it has happened quite a lot in those years. A good and thorough treatment might take some more time. One basis for presenting such a proposition must be that the Council of State and the government believe that the current situation is in no way good enough, otherwise there would not have been a basis for notifying them. Does the Council of State today believe that we in Norway do not have sufficient control over who is being protected in Norway and that there is reason to believe that there are too many people in Norway who have been protected on the wrong basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1098	Well done! The representative probably knows just as well as I do that there is a procedure. In recent years, we have seen that a good deal has been granted to the application for protection. We have to assume that that's right, but there's also a part that gets rejected. We see that there are still issues where there have been doubts about identity. In this context, it is important that the authorities make a good balance between the need for control and the need for privacy protection. But it is clear that there may be reason to use more tools to ensure that we have information right from the beginning, that we have a good basis for providing proper asylum treatment. This contributes to the security of the state as to who is in the country, but also to the security of those who actually need protection, and to the return of those who do not have the right motivation to come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1103	The Council of State mentions that there is a part that is being rejected. They are not relevant in this context. It is good that there are good assessments today, but as I said in my post, the point is that today we have quite a few of these provisions in place already. It's not an unregulated area. It is not that today you have a law that does not provide a basis for doing more thorough work if you really have a suspicion. But what the council doesn't answer is exactly what is my question. Is the law inadequate today? Do we have reason to believe that there are so many people in Norway today who have received protection, asylum, on the wrong basis, that we need to get away from the legal security barriers we have set, and change the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1108	I totally disagree that it is only what the representative asks about, which is relevant in assessing what control measures are needed. Under the previous government, we also saw that the foreign agency had major problems with the capacity. It was before the asylum crisis we are now facing. Identification is often difficult to identify and identify. There's a lot of things in court about this. There are good reasons why the authorities need control measures that take into account the privacy and human dignity of those to whom we are going to accept, but which also ensure that we receive the necessary information, reduce the risk of a later change in explanation, and that we have the opportunity to deal with asylum applications on the most appropriate basis possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1113	I agree with the Council of State that there are challenges when it comes to resource availability and procedural time in a number of issues that go under the remit of the Foreign Administration. These include: therefore, the Left today supports a proposal in a previous case to give different priority to resources. But does the Council of State think that a proposal to impose routine controls, which I believe will consume quite a lot of resources, would, on the other hand, make it more efficient to use resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1119	It's an advantage for the authorities if you can get the right information from the beginning. The asylum institute is a little special, because it gives people who really don't have the right to enter Norway an exemption from that entry because you can get here by applying for protection from persecution. Then you have to prove who you are. You have to be able to show that you have the identity you're saying you have, that is. there is something that the authorities are seeking to identify. We want to have a system that reduces the risk of abuse by the asylum institution, precisely because it would go very hard on all the people in the world who are on the run, who need protection, if people can't trust that those who actually get protection need it, and that we can resist those who don't need it. Then it's important to have good control from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1124	With that justification from the Council of State, does she believe that today there is a basis for saying that people cannot trust that those who come to Norway have been protected on the right basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1129	Not everyone who comes to Norway gets protection. It is the case that those coming to Norway are applying for protection, and the authorities must assess whether or not to grant the application. There may be different conditions or different provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act that apply. Well, for example. We are in a situation where we have given temporary collective protection to all those who are refugees who are Ukrainians, but they still have to prove who they are and seek temporary collective protection. It's a fast track that makes people faster to get shelter and protection. As an authority, it is important that we follow along in time, take the necessary steps to have good control, which I was in, both to have control by the authorities and to protect the foreigners coming here, to prevent security threats and to be sure that we maintain confidence in the institution of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1134	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1141	I just have two brief comments for the representative of Almeland. Firstly, this proposal is not about requiring the police to search for asylum seekers during the registration process. It's an opportunity to do that if you have a basis for it. Secondly, even if you've had good processes in the past, it's important to think that when there's new technology, we also have to look at new ways of implementing the registration we've done. Having a good system already doesn't mean you can't do it better. In particular, it is also designed to adapt it to new technological developments, for which the legislation has not taken sufficient account until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1152	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1171	In 1993, three shots were released in Dagaliveien, Oslo. The weapon that was used was loaded with expanding ammunition to do the most harm in a human being – brutal, calculated, planned and unlikely to be survived. But William Nygaard survived and is still among us. We owe all those who are attacked in our country to do what we can to clear up killings and attempted killings – find out what's behind, and bring the guilty to a court, so that they can cope with their actions. However, this matter is special. The shots at the Aschehoug publisher were and are far more than a criminal case, much more than a personal offense. The attack was a cold-blooded attempt to execute a publisher because of a book that was published. A direct attack on the free word, a direct attack on freedom of expression – on Norwegian soil. Freedom of expression is the very foundation of our democracy, a fundamental human right protected by the Norwegian Constitution – without freedom of expression, no democracy. It is intolerable to be attacked on Norwegian soil in an attempt to silence voices that bring the free word out. Freedom of expression, freedom of the press – as elected representatives, we have a special responsibility to guard this. In 1989, Iran’s political and religious leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, a so - called ‘fatwa’, issued a trial against the author Salman Rushdie and all who had been involved in the publication of the book Satanic verse. The call for killing, with a reward for the one who carried out — a series of targeted attacks against publishers, translators and bookstores on several continents. In 1991 the Japanese translator Hitoshi lgarashi was stabbed and killed. In Italy the translator Ettore Capriolo was stabbed. In Turkey, over 30 people were killed when the hotel they were at was set in flames by demonstrators. That same year, the shots that were meant to kill Ashehoug's publisher in Oslo. The case is again up to date because the NRK’s Odd Isungset has published a target Kripos took out in 2018, which is directly linked to Iran. The NRC has also identified men, but Kripos will not publish this — even 29 years after the attack. One of them is former First Secretary and diplomat at the Iranian Embassy in Oslo. There is reason to ask to what extent the Norwegian authorities have raised this matter with the Iranian authorities. In 2007, the Oslo Police District filed the case. It bears witness to little understanding of what this matter is basically about, or to quote from then national lawyer Tor-Aksel Busch: "The killing attempt at William Nygaard has dimensions beyond a serious criminal case. In addition to personal injury, the crime also appears to be an attack on fundamental social values.» The case was decided to move to Kripos. When Kripos took office against two persons of foreign origin who were no longer in Norway, the charge officer said, ‘We have cause for suspicion, and it is very important to resolve this matter because of its great social importance.’ The prosecutor also said, ‘The aim is to have them brought before a Norwegian court.’ Is this still the case? I ask because a prerequisite then is that you actually interrogate the targeted ones. Have the Norwegian authorities done everything possible to resolve the matter? I hope the government will answer: to what extent have the Norwegian authorities been in dialogue with the two men's home country for questioning? It is questioning that may happen in their country of origin. Have Norwegian authorities been in dialogue for extradition? Does the government see this as a single matter or a matter that can be characterised as state terrorism? A common instrument to be used when leaving the country is to identify them internationally. Are the two men requested internationally — and why not? When will it happen, if any? And why doesn't that happen? With knowledge of the quality of the investigation back in time – long before this government guard: Will the Minister of Justice on behalf of the department take self-criticism and complain to William Nygaard? The interpellation is addressed to Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre, but it is the Minister of Justice who will give us the government's official answer as to whether this matter can be brought to a conclusion that is worthy of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1190	I refer to the interference of the representative Abid Raja, who was to the Prime Minister, but to whom the Prime Minister has asked me to respond. Interpellation concerns a very serious criminal case that is still under investigation. It is a matter of considerable general and political interest. In the period following the call for the killing of authors, publishers, and others involved in the 1988 book of Satanic Verses, attacks were directed against book dealers and other individuals. The situation at the time triggered extensive diplomatic activity and discussions in international forums without reaching a solution. William Nygård's attempted killing took place over four years after the call for killing. The matter is unsolved. The police took out sights in the autumn of 2018, shortly before the case expired, against non-named persons. As reported by the police, these persons do not live in Norway. The police are still investigating various tracks in the matter. Penalties with branches to other countries present specific challenges that need to be met in cooperation between law enforcement authorities in the countries. The principle of sovereignty prevents Norwegian authorities from travelling to a foreign country and implementing, for example: evidence assurance or arrests. However, the Norwegian authorities may request the assistance of the authority of a foreign State for the collection and seizure of evidence by the submission of legal or extradition requests. The promotion of a request for international legal assistance is, as a general rule, up to the prosecution authority to assess. If the prosecution authority decides to submit a request for legal assistance to a foreign country, the Ministry of Justice and Defence normally assists the Ministry of Justice in the submission of the request or request, in line with legislation and practice in the field. As you know, Norway has joined several conventions and agreements on mutual cooperation in criminal matters. The European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 April 1959 and its two additional protocols are central in this area. Our relationship with Eurojust allows for joint investigations and helps to ensure the processing of legal requests. The challenge picture is generally more complicated when the need for cooperation is with countries where we cannot use established channels. Norway is associated with a number of UN conventions that facilitate international judicial cooperation, including: The UN Convention against Organised Crime. The Convention has 190 States Parties and can be used as a basis for cross-border judicial cooperation with the Parties to the Convention in matters relating to organised crime. Norway participates in a number of cooperation groups under this UN Convention and is working to strengthen and streamline cooperation between Member States. I would like to remind you that the prosecution authority has the competence to decide on any further action in the criminal proceedings this interview is about. It also includes, where appropriate, the promotion of requests for legal assistance with other countries. In line with current legislation and practice, the Ministry of Justice and Defence will be prepared to promote the requests for international legal assistance that may be decided by the prosecution authority on the occasion of the criminal proceedings. Political and diplomatic commitment to other countries to influence the treatment of specific criminal cases will not normally be reflected. In the case that foreign nationals, on behalf of their country, should have committed illegal acts in Norway, the possibilities of constructive cooperation would normally be low. Such criminal proceedings after the attempted killing of William Nygård now stand, as an unsolved criminal case that is still being dealt with by police and prosecution authorities, is my opinion that it is neither right nor appropriate to initiate dialogue with any country, raise the issue in international forums or take active use of foreign services. The government also places great emphasis on freedom of expression and the press in our international work for human rights. Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right and essential for democracy. Norway promotes freedom of expression in the UN and other multilateral forums, and we include freedom of expression in the dialogue we have with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1213	I thank the Council of State for the article, although most of the questions I raised remain unanswered. One can ask questions about the wisdom of the behaviour to which one refers – that one sees this only as a matter for the prosecution authority, that one does not see the political aspects of this matter – whether one does not want to use political clues to encourage the authorities of the other countries to facilitate interrogation. The matter began with that we were told more about this a few months ago, really at the tamp of last year, when the NRK revealed the identity of the two men of vision. One has a background from Lebanon and was at an earlier stage in the police searchlight. But it is also a former First Secretary at the Embassy of Iran, an Iranian diplomat. This will not be confirmed by Kripos, for so-called ongoing investigation – an investigation that has been in progress for 29 years. We're wondering what reasons for ongoing investigation are so important that you don't even want to confirm the identity or that the two people are actually of the foreign origin that the NRK has reproduced. Nor do we know whether Norway has asked Iran to inform us, whether Iran has been asked to assist in questioning the one-sided person, who is an Iranian citizen, or why the government does not want to start such dialogue with Iran in order to actually get that person interrogated. The matter directly affects our relationship with other countries, international legal order and the possibility of calling, as well as our ability to address issues related to attacks on freedom of expression with regimes that suppress it. Because foreign countries are involved, government management is required, far beyond the national criminal policy toolbox. Then you have to dare to put things into practice. The public also needs a clear need for answers, not just William Nygaard – if, for example. whether they are to be internationally sought, why it is not done, and why the government will not initiate dialogue with Iran to get the man in Iran to be interrogated. He doesn't have to come to Norway for this interview, it's many times one can also question people in their own country. It seems to me like a kind of passivity that we shouldn't expect from a Norwegian government. No one should be allowed to censor Norwegian publishers, Norwegian press, Norwegian opinion breakers and public debate, because then they take a piece of democracy with them. When that happens, as a country, we need to make sure that we use all means to clean up, to put those responsible for the attacks in order. This isn't a regular police case. It is a foreign matter and a matter of principle of national importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1224	I experience that I answered very clearly what was the question of the interpellation in my first post, and why the instruments the representative wants are not something we consider appropriate or appropriate. I must stress – and I think the representative is familiar with it – that as Minister of Justice and Defence and as a government, I cannot go into a single matter, to which the representative refers. It is the prosecution authority who has to assess whether to decide on the request for assistance from another country. Nor is it a decision I can make, all the time the prosecution authority in Norway is independent.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1229	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for raising both a concrete and a very fundamental question. The attempted attack on William Nygaard shook Norway, and we all assume that the motive behind the attack on Nygaard was his role in the Norwegian publication of the book of Salman Rushdie's Satanic verse. The fact that the matter has not been resolved is deeply regrettable, but also a constant reminder that the matter concerns a continuing challenge. We must not be naive and believe that states do not have or have had the will and ability to carry out acts of terrorism also directed at individuals. The shots against William Nygaard are an example. The attack was not just an attack on Nygaard, it was an attack on fundamental rule of law, the right to freedom of expression and freedom of belief. Salman Rushdie himself has had to live with constant protection for writing a book that was accused of blasphemy by some. When freedom of expression is threatened, all other freedoms are also threatened. All political discussion and societal debate stem from this right. We have had a debate on this in Norway, both in the question of caricatures and in the question of literature. On the issue of freedom of expression, Norway needs to have an active role internationally, and that means that we need to address questions in the contexts it has a purpose, but also in the forums where it may be unpleasant. We can't allow people to be threatened with silence. Such matters need to be investigated and resolved, and those behind them must be held accountable. This also applies where state actors are behind it. Therefore, it was correct and important that the then national lawyer, Tor-Aksel Busch, reopened the investigation. Attacks on important values such as freedom of expression and religion must be given high priority by the police and the prosecution authority. Without freedom of expression, no democracy. I would refer to The Economists' democracy index, which shows that the trend in the world is going in the wrong direction. 8.4 pst. the people of the world now live in a well-functioning democracy, and more than a third live in an authoritarian regime. This is the lowest democratic goal since The Economist started to map this in 2006, and it is worrying. Norway must be a lighthouse for freedom of expression and religion, and I expect the government to address these questions where it has a purpose and where possible. In that context, I would like to refer to one of the last issues raised by the government of Solberg in the field of foreign affairs. In June last year, the last government presented a strategy for freedom of expression in precisely foreign policy. In this context, it was decided that Norway should contribute to enhanced international cooperation between authorities, technology companies, civil society and media institutions in order to ensure freedom of expression both on and outside digital platforms. This includes, inter alia: greater transparency and control of the content and other measures of the large social media platforms to counter disinformation, hateful expressions, digital violence and censorship. An important part of the strategy is also to stand up for journalists, human rights defenders, oppositionals and others threatened by their work, and it also means standing up for the right to comment, criticize and even ridicule religions or regimes. It is of course part of freedom of expression and freedom of belief and life. I hope the government Støre follows up this strategy. Freedom of expression is essential to ensure informed, open and constructive dialogue. It's been almost 30 years since the attempted attack on William Nygaard, and I want to say the threat has grown since then. We need to keep our attention on the specific matter and on the important protection of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1250	I am pleased that the interpellant has addressed this matter. It is important that this matter be debated precisely in this Chamber. Freedom of expression is absolutely vital to democracy, as the interpellant began with. Without freedom of expression there is no democracy, and personal freedoms will at least be considerably reduced. I myself have lived in Iran and experienced what it is like to turn up the sound of the TV and the radio, pull for the curtains, sit in a corner and whisper and whisper about monstrous themes, like the country's management. When I was grown up, I was also told by my mother about the illegal printing plant she and my father had in our cellar, and how, after my father's death, she had to get rid of the equipment at night in order not to be discovered by Iran's police and revolutionary guard. It was precisely Iran’s then leader Khomeini who issued the Fatwaen and, in effect, the death sentence against Salman Rushdie, who urged all Muslims to take to the streets and, in the utmost consequence, kill all those who had contributed to the publication of the book “Satanic Verse”. This resulted in the attempted assassination of editor William Nygaard. In his own ride he was shot several times, with the aim of killing him. This is nothing to joke about. Nygaard had contributed to the publication of the book. The goal was not only to restrict his freedom of speech, but to send a clear signal to all those who had contributed to the publication of that book, about what they had in store for. Khomeini's reason for the fatwagen was that Rushdie had offended Islam. Reality is probably a little bit more nuanced. Rushdie masterfully managed, during a few episodes in the book, to sum up Khomeini's career. Rushdie described a mule that, in foreign countries, vibrates up to the revolution in its home country. When the revolution succeeds and he returns to power in his own country, he becomes a dragon that flies over the country and devours the population. That's really what happened in Khomeini's case. He went from being the leader of the revolution abroad to launching mass killings on political opponents in Iran – and actually in Europe. Some of Khomeini's minions are now in court in Sweden. It is also important in this context to point out that the Iranian regime is still there, the Fatwa is still active, and the Iranian regime does not tend to forget what they promised. What is discouraging in this matter is the answer I received from the Minister of Justice when I asked if the Council of State would launch a police investigation, to see if there are any learning points there that might be useful. I justified this with a background in the situation we're up against. It is no longer just Khomeini in Iran and the Islamic Republics that implements it, we see it in several countries, among other things. Russia. The reply from the Minister of Justice was as follows: ‘It has now been over 28 years since the killing attempt took place. The value of a police investigation seems uncertain. I do not see it as appropriate to carry out an examination of an ongoing criminal case in which it is still being worked for clarification." So there's nothing to learn from a murder investigation, an attempted attack, a political attempted murder that's not solved. It's alarming. We have the opportunity to debate this matter in this Chamber because people like William Nygaard and others choose to stand on the barricades to defend freedom of expression. I see that the commitment is not so great. I'm sorry. We owe them so much that at least we can look at the shortcomings of police investigation, which seem to be forgotten – an investigation in a matter where a state, a leader, wants to influence freedom of expression in our country and send a clear signal to everyone else in other countries. I hope the Council of State realizes the seriousness and importance of this matter, and that she chooses to change her position in relation to my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1276	I thank the representatives who have participated in the interview. The attack on William Nygaard was an attack in a number of people targeting publishers, translators and book dealers around the world. The attacks included: as a result of Khomeini's call to kill all who had the possession of Salman Rushdie's book Satanic verse. We have to ask ourselves as a society if the Norwegian authorities have done enough to settle the matter, if the Norwegian authorities are going to deal with the Iranian authorities, and if the police, Kripos, are going to do more. The goal is to have the defendants addressed to a Norwegian court, said Kripos when the sentences were taken out in 2018. It is easy to join, but then it also has to be worked for the goal. Where's the job? One prerequisite then is that you actually question the intended ones and based on the interrogations and the overall evidence can decide whether you have enough to take action. Where is the request for questioning? Where's the international call? The NRK has identified the two men they believe Kripos have taken advantage of, among them a former employee of the Iranian Embassy, a diplomat. What challenges does this pose? Why would the Norwegian authorities not ask the Iranian authorities to assist in informing the case? What does the Norwegian Government think about the term state terrorism on this matter? There are many unanswered questions, and active action from the government is necessary. This is not just a legal matter. The attack was religious and political. The shots at Aschehoug's publisher, William Nygaard, are one thing that goes far beyond the criminal trail. It was an attack on the free word carried out on Norwegian soil – according to Kripos by persons of foreign origin located outside Norway. The least we can expect is that the targets are being called internationally, so that's not unusual in criminal matters. Attacks against freedom of expression are among the most serious that can hit a country because it is at the heart of open, free democracies. Once we have been attacked, we must be sure that we are doing everything – absolutely everything in our power – to bring those responsible to justice. We cannot give ourselves as societies until this matter is resolved and the people responsible are brought to justice – not just for the sake of William Nygaard, because the attacks on William Nygaard were and are also an attack on the free word and on fundamental social interests. It is therefore in our common interest that the Norwegian authorities use all the means at their disposal to inform the matter and to set the responsible ones straight. Our democracy requires a worthy end.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1293	I would like to thank the representative for the interpellation, and thank those who have taken part and put important points of view, important values of human rights and freedom of expression on the agenda. I would like to repeat what I said at the outset that I cannot go into commenting on a specific criminal case that is still under investigation by the police for clarification, and the requests for assistance from the authorities of other countries that the representative is calling for are for the prosecution to decide. Having said that, let it be clear that for the government, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the detention of journalism and the security of journalists are a high priority for us. It's an important part of the international work we do, and what we deal with with other countries, when we work to promote human rights around the world. Unfortunately, many people do not experience the same freedom as we do in Norway. We are now at the centre of a war in Europe, where propaganda and lack of freedom of expression also play a major role, and this is a theme that will always be important to fight for. I would like to thank you for that, and then I refer to my first answer as to who has the competence to decide on the measures the representative is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1302	The debate on substance is then closed. 6ths over. Case No. 7 and 8 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1329	At the request of the Committee, the president will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Centre Party 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Red, the Left, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party 5 minutes each. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1336	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Development for the presentation. It shows the greatest extent of the breadth of Nordic cooperation. It is the world's most integrated region, and it looks very good in the areas of cooperation that we also have. Right-wing speakers are going to address a little different issues in the debate today. I want to take advantage of the opportunity to talk more about what is happening at the level of security policy, as an important factor in Nordic cooperation. In a world that is less secure and predictable than before, our Nordic and European ties are also becoming increasingly important. We are looking at this bilaterally, where we are still entering into new cooperation in the field of defence. We also engage in trilateral cooperation between Norway, Sweden and Finland, as well as cooperation between Norway and Sweden. We see it when we see developments in Nordic defence cooperation, NORDEFCO, as the Minister for Development also explained, and how it has evolved in many different ways in a very active direction since the inauguration of Crimea in 2014. It is also natural, because this was a matter that affected Nordic security in a very clear way, and that we all took a stand on. We're looking at the community of values that underpins a lot of the collaborations we're involved in. That doesn't mean there are no cultural differences between the Nordic countries, that's it. Of course, we have also seen how Nordic cooperation has been crucial for us under the pandemic. We have also seen very clearly the value of Nordic cooperation in the Security Council. There is a kind of Nordic rotation that suggests that Nordic countries regularly apply for one of the non-permanent places in the Security Council. I can say from my own experience that the help we received from the Swedes in our campaign – the Swedes who had just sat in the Security Council – was absolutely invaluable. The fact that we could have a diplomat located in the Swedish U.D. was an extremely important part of it that we could run a good campaign and prepare ourselves as best we could, and not least we take our experience to the next Nordic candidate country. So a few words about the development that is now taking place regionally in the area of purely security policy. The Committee has recently been travelling in both Helsinki and Stockholm. There have been unusually useful travels, as it is obvious that the NATO debate in Sweden and Finland has shot violently in the last few weeks, and there is every reason to expect that at least Finland will take a relatively early decision. One might wonder why I mention this in a statement on Nordic cooperation, but it has the following reason: I have said previously and still stand by the fact that if it is felt to be a security vacuum for Nordic countries, it must be filled first and foremost by non-EU members becoming EU members and non-NATO members becoming NATO members. It is in the two organisations that both the discussion and the development of security, defence and foreign policy are now under way and it is important to support it. I can also say on behalf of at least the majority of the parties in the committee that our message to both Swedes and find unique: it will increase regional security in the Nordic region if Sweden and Finland join, but if they want this NATO membership, of course, Sweden and Finland have to do it on their own. I also mention it because back in 2013/2014 regional cooperation was not entirely unproblematic in NATO and between NATO countries and non-NATO countries. It was sometimes a little controversial. Today, it is not at all controversial; rather, it is seen as a strength for NATO to cooperate with close and close partners that bring security to NATO. Sweden and Finland are two countries of this kind with which enhanced cooperation is strongly encouraged, as Norway has also done for a long time. It is important that discussions also take place in Denmark, which will have a referendum on 1 June to join or cancel their reservation against the common foreign and security policy in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1361	Thanks to Minister of Development Twinnereim for a very good presentation on Nordic cooperation. I believe that a presentation with debate afterwards is a very good way to discuss Nordic cooperation, so I hope that it can be something we can do every year. There is no doubt that we need more debate on Nordic cooperation. The North is our part of Europe, and that's our part of the world. We're a region that belongs together. We share history, culture and social model. In the last two years, the pandemic has been both challenging and strengthening for Nordic cooperation. It has been challenging and difficult because our borders have been closed. We are such a convex region that closed borders are tough and difficult for many: for anyone who likes to go with the Danish boat, those who travel on their cabin on the other side of the Finnish border or anyone who goes on a ski trip to Sweden. It has been most difficult for anyone who has family across borders, and for anyone who lives and works across borders. Norway and Sweden have the longest border in Europe, and we may be the two closest countries across Europe. Finally, the limit is left open, we never had to close it again. The pandemic has also come up with the best in Nordic cooperation, that we stand together in terms of sharing experience at all levels, that we have cooperated on vaccines, health material and health policies. Important health cooperation must continue even after the pandemic. Here we are today, we are closer to Ukraine than we are to North Cape. The war in Europe is in our vicinity. It's good to see how Europe has met this war together, not least in the Nordic region, we stand together. We meet it with joint discussions about all that war brings with us at home. And then we meet it by working together on security policy. The Hurdal Declaration states that Nordic defence cooperation should be a priority for us. Now it's more topical than ever. This year, the Minister of Defence is leading defence cooperation between the Nordic countries and has great ambitions for what we can do. Our Prime Minister visited the Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson this week. They both expressed a desire to strengthen defence cooperation – as is the case with Finland. As the committee chairman quite rightly said, the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee was closely followed up on the debate on NATO membership when we visited Stockholm and Helsinki very well. I am very pleased that the presentation to the Council of State was so broad and shows how much ambition we have for cooperation in climate policy, environment, working life and culture. I believe that almost all areas are strengthened by working Nordic. In fact, this is also true in development policy, where even more coordination would have been very good. With the twinning council responsible for both parties, everything is at the heart of a joint initiative that will really be able to play a global difference. Sometimes – and at regular intervals – we read newspaper comments that social democracy is in crisis. Well, now for the first time in 20 years we have Social Democratic Prime Minister in Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Norway at the same time. It shows that in our part of the world, the Community is strong. I am sure that with the social democratic governments of the four countries, cooperation will be further strengthened and we will be able to take many joint initiatives. Let me end by saying that none of the Nordic countries individually are very large, but together we are strong. We make up one of the fifteenth largest economies in the world. We're big in almost every area. We're usually placed in important and central positions. In the North, we're looking out for each other. We're important to each of us, but together we can really get to big things. I am pleased that this government has Nordic cooperation high on the agenda, and that there is cross-political support behind this. The war in Ukraine puts us on a big test. I'm sure through close and good cooperation the Nordics will show that we're going to pass that test. We can do it because we do what we do, we stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1380	I would like to thank you for the statement by the Council of State Anne Beathe Twinnereim, our Minister for Development. I think it was good, it was broad, and it took up many aspects that of course say something about the situation today, but also something about what we have to work with when we're going to look at future solutions. We mark these days the 70th anniversary of the Nordic Council. It was established in 1952 and is one of the world's oldest collaborations of its kind. Since it was established, it has contributed to increased political and cultural understanding across borders and is building a peaceful community of 27 million people today. The Nordic countries are bound together by geography, history, language, culture, values and interests – all that matters to people in everyday life. This is a Nordic community that is important to preserve, both in terms of language and culture that binds us together, our thoughts on democracy and human rights, and not least – in these days – on security policy issues. Nordic cooperation has a broad population boom – 60 pst. actually want more of that cooperation. For 70 years, the citizens of the Nordic region have been able to travel freely without passports and live where they want to in the region without applying for a residence permit, and for almost the same time, we have had a common Nordic labour market. This contributes to trust, it builds identity, and it has a real meaning for human life. The aim of Nordic cooperation is to agree on common solutions that have a clear positive impact on the citizens of the Nordic region, such as: reduction of border barriers. Regional cooperation has become very extensive and covers a wide range of societal areas. It's environment, climate, energy, education, innovation, equality and culture. These are the broad political discussions we have in our own country that we are also discussing with our neighbouring country. Regional cooperation has become very extensive. The work of the Nordic Council has been — as is much different — influenced by the pandemic, which has made what has characterized cooperation in these days, what is happening here and now. Nevertheless, we see that open borders and continued trade are also important in crises. There, I think we've become even more aware of what happened in the last year. Security of supply has long been a priority area for Norway and Finland in particular. In 2005, we concluded an agreement to maintain goods and services between our countries in war and crisis situations. From the Finnish and Norwegian sides, we now want similar agreements to be concluded with other Nordic countries. In the Hurdal platform, the government is drawing up cooperation with our NATO allies as the foundation of our military security. At the same time, we are very clear that Norwegian security policy is also well served by having more legs on, among other things. through stronger Nordic foreign and security cooperation. With this in mind, we in the Centre Party have been committed to expanding and deepening Nordic cooperation in defence and security policy, economics, technology, climate and infrastructure. These things are connected. The Nordic region is also becoming increasingly geopolitical and strategic. It results from the role of the Nordic seas as the production and transit area for oil and gas to European markets and from the development of the Arctic. The Nordic countries are thus served by strong cooperation based on a community of values and interests. And with a community of values and interests as the starting point, you will also be able to solve the practical challenges in a good way. The pandemic has been challenging for all Nordic countries. Restrictions and border controls have created practical challenges and responses. It has therefore been important to contribute to restoring mutual trust across the Nordic borders. Today we are in the midst of a security crisis and a paradigm shift as a result of Russia's attack on a country in our neighbourhoods. It's also noticed in the surrounding regions of the Nordic region. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine again shows the importance of established – and I repeat: established – cooperation platforms and dialogue venues. Nordic cooperation has a strong intrinsic value that cannot always be measured in economic terms or other measurable quantities. At the same time, cooperation shall strengthen the ability of the Nordic countries to meet common societal challenges, such as climate, inclusion and an ageing population, and be practical and useful for both citizens, businesses and governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1403	I would also like to thank the Council of State for the presentation. There was great optimism in 2009, when Nordefco was established. It was hoped at that time that all Nordic countries would use equal military platforms, which would provide synergies and reduce cost, make it easier for industry to specialise, make components and spare parts more reasonable and make maintenance more efficient, training identical and practice easier. The idea is good, but not very successful, not until now, at least. There is a lot of talk and little action; in addition, Denmark and Norway’s NATO membership create other commitments and expectations. It will be an advantage if Sweden and Finland join NATO. It will also be able to revitalize Nordic material cooperation. The Council of State mentioned some of the reasons why the Nordic countries are cutting the living conditions index high. Yes, we have a high material standard of living, we have liberal values of freedom, we have confidence in society and each other, we have well-functioning institutions, and we have a strong tradition of cooperation. But it's just a statement, not an assessment of why it's like that. There is little doubt that the Nordic countries have cultural similarities. We have national identities and relatively homogeneous populations. At the same time, we have common history, not least royal houses have contributed to this. I mention this because the representative Eriksen Soreide said that EU membership was so important. That's exactly what EU members don't have – they don't have this community, they don't have these common identities, they don't have the cultural community. It is only a practical regulation of the European Union. I understand executive politicians who want to meet their colleagues at the same level, but there is not enough reason to become a member of the EU. Not least, the pandemic has shown that national borders are in place. The starting point is that EU cooperation works, but the first thing that happened when we had coronary apathy was that all countries closed their own borders. There was no cooperation, there were different solutions, and it wasn't until the vaccine came that you started working together. That's one example, and that's very recent. Then you get to hope that it might be different in the future, but the European Union showed at least then that it was really the paralytic of action. Even in the Nordic region, cooperation was not possible. It is easy for politicians to boast about cooperation that it would be almost impossible to avoid. Cooperation between the Nordic countries comes naturally and does not require major political consultations. We're going to be careful to try and solve problems that don't exist. We should not politicise anything that can be solved through friendship, knowledge, cultural understanding and ordinary commercial competition, whether in sport or in business. This does not mean that the Nordic Council does not have an entitlement to exist. The Council of State mentioned some of the politically anchored benefits, such as crossing borders without passports, settling where you want in the Nordic countries without a residence permit, and having a common labour market. Such practical arrangements require community and trust. If this will continue, history will show. As the rapporteur for the Stortinget report from the Stortinget delegation to the Nordic Council, I would like to mention that in 2021 the Council focused on the different experiences of the Nordic countries in the corona pandemic and the different approaches of the countries to stop the infection. The Committee shares the view that Nordic cooperation is moving into emerging areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1424	Thank you to the Minister of Cooperation for a good presentation last week. The Nordic Association, which is working on linking the Nordic countries, tends to say that Nordic cooperation has often been ‘accused’ to be pleasant. But in these days it's obvious to most people that the Nordic is not just nice – it's important and not least necessary. I'm myself from a border state, and I've seen what kind of consequences the decision to close the borders gets for real people. It was not uncommon under the pandemic with hours of queues on the border, and that was when the borders were, after all, open – hours of queues for people working on the other side of the border every day, for people with families on the other side of the border, for people living across the Nordic borders, short and good. That situation was not new either. In 2015, during the refugee situation at the time, the Nordic countries also experienced border problems that made life very difficult for many. That is why these times of crisis have taught us several things. They've taught us the consequences for people when parts of Nordic cooperation get lost. They have taught us that we need to have formal, systematic cooperation on crisis management and preparedness to avoid those consequences. But they have also taught us that we can stand much stronger together and not only maintain the Nordic integration we have today, in difficult times, but also be even more integrated as a region to better meet the challenges, for example. around emergency storage, production and exchange of critical goods, whether food or medical devices. At a time when values we have built around the North, namely democracy, international law and peace, are under attack, under invasion, time is not only ripe, but over-mature to strengthen cooperation on these values. Norway is chairing the Nordic Council of Ministers this year and the Nordic Council next year, and it opens up opportunities for us to lead in strengthening Nordic cooperation. Then I experience the inquiry the minister referred to, where 60 pst. of the asked would have more Nordic cooperation, as a good marshalling earth. What is quite clear is that, for all cooperation, whether civil protection or working life across borders, is cultural cooperation, that we develop a common public for the media, that we take care of and strengthen the Nordic community, that Nordic history is told through film, literature and other art across borders. The trust this creates between us, and the common reference framework culture gives us, the Nordic cultural community, is the foundation for the rest of our cooperation. Therefore, it should also be a goal for all of us to transform the cuts in Nordic cultural cooperation planned. Finally, I am pleased that the Minister took up one of the workshops in Nordic cooperation, namely transport cooperation. The Council of State said that Norway will address the issue of a Transport Council during the year. I hope that Norway's position is clear. We need a formalized, proper cooperation, a Council of Ministers, for transport, and that's just a minimum. The Nordic Council's vision is to make the Nordic region the most integrated and sustainable region in the world. If we are to succeed in that, expanding cross-border green transport must be a concrete main task in Nordic cooperation. Climate-friendly transport of both people and goods on rails, on cold in future zero-emission aviation links the Nordic region, and that is what we need to work together across the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1439	First, I too would like to thank the Council of State for a very good and thorough presentation last week. Strong Nordic cooperation has hardly been more important in recent times than it is right now. Nordic cooperation is also important for very many of the citizens of the Nordic region. As the Council of State also referred to in the statement, wants more than 60 pst. more Nordic cooperation. It's good to know. What does Nordic cooperation mean in everyday life, in addition to Swedish trade tours, family holidays to Legoland and Swedish, Danish and Norwegian jokes? We have a common value base as Nordic countries, we have almost equal history, and we have a good deal of values that we share. The Nordic countries are characterised by, among other things, high level of organisation and the formation of wages through tripartite cooperation, but also that we have a relatively high trust in each other. All of this should never be taken for granted, but we have a good starting point and a lot of things we can do better from there. I listened eagerly to the Council of State, which was talking about a socially sustainable Nordic region. Our 2030 vision says that the Nordic region has as its vision to become the world's most sustainable and integrated region. It also states that equality and well-being are prerequisites for job security and dynamic economies. If we are to secure work, and if we are to create greater opportunities for our children and young people, equality and well-being must be given priority. The Nordic countries must work hard to preserve the Nordic welfare and social models. Then we must also start to reverse developments where more and more of our children in the Nordic countries are growing up in poverty. In Norway, recent data show that 115,000 children are growing up in persistent low incomes, better known as poverty. Those are sad numbers. According to Redd Barna's 2019 figures, there is also very high relative child poverty in other countries. Among other things, it is in Denmark at 13.2 p.m., in Finland at 14.3 p.m. and in Sweden at 23.1 p.m. This must be combated. Across the Nordic border, we must preserve the Nordic social models. Governments also drew up preparedness and crisis management and cooperation on it – I am very pleased about that – among other things. in the field of vaccine production in the Nordic region. This is very important, and the pandemic also shows us how important this cooperation is, and that we cooperate more on such matters. That is why I am very pleased that the Nordic Council's party group Red and SV were given an opportunity for the Nordic Council to work more closely on such matters. The Council of State also mentioned the importance of the NORDEFCO cooperation. I'm not as negative as the representative Tybring-Gjedde was here earlier. I believe that this is a very important cooperation. Because of the independence of NATO's relations with the various Nordic countries, North-EFCO cooperation has also been strengthened in the future. The fact that our democracies hold together, even militarily, and can engage in broad and good cooperation and also have exercises together is important in a troubled time like the one we live in now. I agree when the Council of State highlights the importance of being united in the fight against climate change in the Nordic countries, because the Nordic countries have many of the solutions. We have very good and dynamic green industries that we need to invest more and certainly can cooperate more on, but we also have many of the areas that are particularly affected by climate change, including climate change. Greenland. So working for a greener Nordic, cutting emissions, creating more green industry is important, but also a more mobile Nordic, which also the representative of the Supreme Court pulled out. Making it easier to travel environmentally friendly across borders, and by train, is very important in this context. Finally, I would like to say that Red Heaths on a closer and stronger Nordic cooperation. We think it needs more of that, not less of it, in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1460	There's tight ties in the Nordic region, and our Nordic community is built up over many years. We share a number of core values that characterize our society and our cooperation, and that help build a Nordic identity. It's very valuable, and we're going to take care of that. Russia's warfare in Ukraine is now within its seventh week. It is a manifest violation of international law, with a brutality that violates the international law of war – at least probably. This makes it more important than ever that we stand together in the defence of the values that Russia has chosen to transcend. And as I said in my presentation, the struggle for freedom by Ukrainian people is also a struggle for our common values. The situation has also updated the Nordic security debate, but also underlined the need for progress in our joint overall preparedness actions. After the Nordic Council of Ministers decided on 3 March to freeze cooperation with Russia and Belarus as a result of the Russian invasion, Russia announced that all activities of the Nordic Council of Ministers in Russia should be stopped. We are now in a process of deciding how we can and should take part of this cooperation further. The pandemic that we're about to lay behind, challenged aspects of the Nordic community. We're not going to substantiate it. Likewise, we must be able to say that Nordic cooperation has worked well through the pandemic. Close cooperation between the Nordic countries is important and necessary in crises of a very different nature. The experience of the pandemic is to be used to strengthen cooperation, and some of these experiences are also needed in the situation that has arisen after Russia's invasion. As I mentioned in the presentation, Nordic cooperation on crisis management and security of supply is central to the Norwegian Presidency year, which we are now in. The Nordic Prime Ministers adopted last November a Joint Declaration on enhanced cooperation in this area. We aim at an overall report on this work to the Nordic Council during the autumn session. In what's an anniversary year for Nordic cooperation, it's a pleasure to say that the Nordic institutions have helped shape what we see today. Governments want to deepen this cooperation. The starting point for our Presidency programme is the vision that the Nordic region will be the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030. We develop policies and concrete solutions that create Nordic added value and benefits, making the Nordic region a priority region in green transition, social sustainability and competitiveness. After being the Minister of Cooperation for nearly six months, I am truly impressed to see the extensive Nordic cooperation and the many activities that are taking place in almost all areas of society. I feel a strong commitment to Nordic cooperation, not only among Nordic parliamentarians, but also in business, civil society and the general population. The Nordic governments are united behind a gradual shift in the budgets of the Nordic Council of Ministers to meet the greatest challenge of our time, the climate crisis. The Nordics have very good assumptions to succeed in green value creation. We do that by being a driver and promoting solutions and best practices. We are also inciters to get ambitious policies into international and global work. When we stand together in the Nordic region, we have a strong voice. We are being listened to, and we have greater impact. Nordic parliamentary cooperation and Nordic government cooperation complement each other in our common objective of a strong Nordic community. I very much appreciate the good cooperation with Stortinget and the Nordic Council, and not least the strong commitment I find in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1486	An important driver of Nordic defence cooperation has been the desire for joint material acquisitions and acquisitions of weapons systems, i.e. a more economic justification. This justification was particularly strong until Russia’s invasion of Crimea — the strategic importance has become much stronger after that. At the same time, we know that the defence industry in Europe is very national, protectionist, and Sweden has a large defence industry. We have also seen that declarations of intent and cooperation plans have gone into the sink by both countries. What will the government do to avoid this happening at the level of intent, but to actually move further, so that the Nordics acquire weapons and material systems that are the best for the Nordics, and not for the individual countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1494	It is clear that close defence cooperation has an economic added value, but I would say that the value-based element in cooperation in the defence and preparedness sector is very strong. We are experiencing a raging trend in Nordic defence cooperation, also, of course, well assisted by the tragic situation we are facing in Europe. As far as cooperation is concerned, this is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, but as Norway has the NORDEFCO Presidency in 2022, it is appropriate to stress that we have a clear vision of working together in peace, crisis and conflict, and there are now a number of agreements that simplify practical cooperation between countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1501	The Nordics have had an energy cooperation for quite many years and power exchanges have actually been going on since the 1960s. Now we see a much more unstable energy situation in Europe and the world. We see that Putin's war in Ukraine contributes to further strengthening it and more or less has disqualified Russia as a reliable supplier of oil and gas. We see a demanding situation with both high prices and an unstable market. What we see from the Nordic side is that the cooperation we have had in the Nordic region has contributed to stability over many years. The question is how does the Minister of Cooperation intend to work on this within the Nordic Council of Ministers, and how can Norway take a leading position in the work on good energy cooperation in the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1506	I thank the representative for an important question. A new Nordic Energy Policy Cooperation Programme for this purpose, covering the period 2022 to 2024, has now been adopted. Obviously, in the light of the situation we're up to, this work becomes all the more important. The situation resulting from Ukraine means that security of supply and energy prices are becoming all the more important on our Nordic agenda. It is about the exchange of information, and it is a Nordic project on security of supply and prices that is becoming even more relevant now. It is also important to stress that this cooperation on electricity is trust-based, so it requires very good contact between the main actors in the Nordic electricity market. Of course, it includes departments, but also regulators and system operators, and it will become more important in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1513	The Council of State made a good presentation, including: up Nordic cultural cooperation, which most people really think is the basis of the community we have in our region. The Council of State stated that a solution was found for that cooperation in the context of the budgetary debates that have taken place in the Nordic cooperation in recent years, at least for 2022. The problem persists, and it is reporting on the future budgets in the time to come. For this reason, I would like to ask the Council of State: is it that the Norwegian Government is also working to ensure permanent Nordic cultural cooperation towards 2030, as a basis for the other key areas of Nordic cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1520	As the representative is well-known, the budget is designed in the way it is for us to work together to achieve the objectives of Our vision 2030. The adopted Action Plan for 2021–2024 is reflected in the budget and has led to an increase in the budgetary framework for some sectors, while others have reduced their framework. At the same time as we have to keep our eyes on this vision – and the Nordic governments are together on it – we need some flexibility so that we can make adjustments. As far as the cultural sector is concerned, the pandemic was such a consequence where we were able to get extra funds through extraordinary negotiations last year. I hope we'll be able to land a good budget unit this year as well, and hopefully in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1527	Governments mentioned the importance of cooperation on preparedness and crisis management, including vaccine cooperation. I think that's very good. My question to the Council of State is whether she can concretely and emancipate a little how the Council of State and Government think about working with vaccine production and cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1532	Vaccine production is one of many exciting elements we are working on in concrete terms on the preparedness and security of supply agenda in Nordic cooperation at present. In February, a joint review of the potential and possibilities for launching such an initiative was launched. We are waiting for the results of this work to be done in the summer, and I look forward to explaining the steps after we have mapped this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1537	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1542	First, I would like to thank the Nordic Minister for a thorough presentation of the Nordic Council report for 2021. The Nordic community is unique. We share basic values and we trust each other a lot. The Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council is new. We are the largest interparliamentary delegation from the United Kingdom and consist of twenty representatives divided into eight parties in four different trade committees plus the Bureau. The vision for the Nordic region to become the world's most integrated and sustainable region by 2030 means that as a country and region, we need to cooperate well for a clean environment and a sustainable climate in the future. In the year we've been behind, we've had different budgetary challenges. There has been a repetition between the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. I hope that this cooperation will improve in 2022, and that we can get into port a budget in 2023 that everyone can join. The work of the Nordic Council was also strongly influenced by the pandemic in 2021, as it was also in 2020. It has put Nordic cooperation to the test, and there will be a strong need to re-establish good dialogue, so that we can work towards common goals, where we can reduce border barriers between our Nordic countries and not least better dialogue between people. Nordic towns and cities should have their cleansing around our country in order to create a good dialogue and cooperation across Nordic municipalities and cities – and in cooperation with the Nordic Association. As far as education is concerned, one of the major challenges we have is that young people have fallen out of the educational cycle during this pandemic period. Culture and education are one of the largest areas of work and budget for the Nordic Council. Building down barriers for young people to study and attend school, not least in vocational education, is important, because we also have a common labour market where these young people are to participate. The Nordic Cultural Fund was established by the Nordic governments all the way back in 1962 and has the task of promoting cultural cooperation across the Nordic countries. The football federations of the six Nordic countries have started work on Vision 2027, on a common football championship for women in the Nordic countries. In view of the speech that Lise Klaveness, the football president of the Norwegian Football Federation, held at the FIFA Congress now, this is a work that the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers should fully support if we are to have a sustainable World Cup that takes care of working conditions, human rights and fair play. We have a common labour market where workers can move freely between our countries with the passport freedom introduced completely back in 1952. In the Nordic region, we have a high degree of organisation and employment, which is the very foundation of our welfare society. It is important to support under and facilitate. Defence cooperation has become an increasingly central part of Nordic cooperation. It was also one of the main themes of the Nordic Council's summit meeting in Copenhagen on 3 November last year, where NATO's Secretary-General, Jens Stoltenberg, was a guest speaker. This is the first time NATO took part in the Nordic Council's session. In a very worrying time, work on social security and preparedness is more important than ever. In the case of Nordic cooperation in research, through Nordforsk, production and availability of important vaccines and medicines, food safety, object safety and energy are important, the pandemic has shown us how important transport between our countries is. Covid-19 has increased awareness and interest in crisis cooperation in the Nordic region – and that is good. The work of the Nordic Council of Youth in 2021 has also been hit hard, and young people who have been hit most during the pandemic with the loss of social and education, and not least in the cultural sector. We need to strengthen cooperation in the Nordic Council of Youth in the future. It's important. It's about greater participation, it's about belonging, and it's about cohesion. Finally, we made a proposal in Malmo that we should have a dialogue and democracy conference in Utöya this year with young people from the Nordic Council of Youth and Ukrainian youth who have fled to Norway so that they can come together in a dialogue on human rights in common and peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1572	Nordic defence cooperation is constantly developing. At the same time, we see that Sweden and Finland coordinate and practice with NATO to an extent that we have never seen before. Nordic defence cooperation is getting closer and closer. Finland, Norway and Sweden share a common strategic interest. If you take a little look at the map in the atlas, you really get it pretty fast. These countries constitute the Scandinavian peninsula, which is isolated from the European continent — unlike Denmark, which also does not have a common border with Russia. A possible military conflict that could involve one of the Scandinavian countries could quickly become a military conflict involving several of the countries. This strategic recognition has been reinforced following Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine. Ten to fifteen years ago, the main driver of Nordic defence cooperation was mainly financially justified. It was a desire and a vision to have joint arms acquisitions, to bring down costs and to enter into material cooperation. Today, it's the strategic considerations that weigh the most. The United States is forced to pay attention to Southeast Asia because of China's strong military development and self-reliance in these areas. Europe needs to take greater responsibility for its own security and Finland, Sweden and Norway are in a community of security policy fates. The Nordic countries are now taking a stronger regional responsibility for their own security, and defence cooperation in the Nordic countries is stabilising in Northern Europe. Nordic defence cooperation is visible in so many areas, from joint exercises to exercises in NATO federations and coordination of air defence activities in the Nordic region. We have seen that this has evolved into the largest air exercise in Europe, and there are signs that it is working very well, very well, and that countries see the need for this. During the Trident Juncture exercise in 2018, departments from both Sweden, Norway and Finland participated – the same was true of this year's Cold Response exercise. We have seen that the Norwegian Brigade, or the Brigade in North Norway, participated with 4,500 men in Sweden during an exercise in 2020. An area that may be a little under-communicated in terms of Nordic defence cooperation is what is happening in the area of supply. In terms of security of supply and logistics, cooperation between the Nordic countries is also rapidly developing. It is worth noting that Sweden, in its defence analyses, places emphasis on the importance of the Oslofjorden, the Trøndelags area and the Ofoten area as important areas to meet Sweden’s security policy needs. These areas are also, as is well known, the main areas for Norway in terms of allied reception. Let us take the example of Gothenburg port: Gothenburg port is very important for after supplies to both Sweden and Finland, but Gothenburg port is also important for supplies to the Oslo and Eastland areas. It says that aftersupply and allied support is in fact a common nordic issue. Sweden and Finland have concluded their own defence agreements with the United States and the United Kingdom and host country support agreements. Following the Russian invasion of Crimea in 2014, Sweden and Finland have increasingly stepped closer to NATO, and there is now a discussion in both countries about joining NATO. This tells us that Nordic defence cooperation is important, but that it can never be a substitute for NATO and NATO cooperation, which is Norway's most important military alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1587	Thank you to the Minister of Cooperation for a broad presentation. Democracy, the rule of law, human rights, equality and sustainable development are fundamental elements of our Nordic societies. The Nordic region is one of the world's most trusted regions. This trust is part of the Nordic gold, which we have to protect. We succeed when Nordic cooperation contributes in areas where joint Nordic efforts create added value for the Nordic countries and us who live here. The Hurdal platform states that the government will develop and deepen Nordic cooperation in a number of fields. Nordic cooperation is both political, economic and culturally anchored. Culture and language connect us North residents across borders. Perhaps you are among those who became familiar with the Swedish language with Emil and Tjorven on children's TV, or who I am happy in Danish series also because of the ‘good’ language. It was through neighboring countries' books, television series and music that many of us got our first contact with neighbouring countries. Now Norwegian series are also increasingly being broadcast in the other Nordic countries. Examples are Shame, Exit and Lyckeland. At the same time, the concern for increasing use of English, especially among young people, is a very real concern that is still on the agenda of the Nordic Council. Our languages have most of their self-esteem. In addition, singing, reading, hearing and understanding the language of our Nordic friends is important for maintaining good contact. Both political and practical efforts and will are required to maintain a common Nordic language understanding. Culture is also a bearer force that creates trust in our societies and binds people together. We learn to understand ourselves and each other through art and culture. The Nordic region has a diverse cultural life with a place for inequality, curiosity and development. Every year, the Nordic Council awards five prizes: Children's and Youth's Literature Prize; Film Prize; Literature Prize; Music Prize; and Environmental Prize. At the last distribution, for example, we had from Vestfold with both the film about the pig Gunda from Re in the film class and opera singer Lise Davidsen from Sandefjord in the music class. None of the Norwegian nominees came up completely this time, but nomination is a recognition in itself. The Nordic Council's cultural budget has had challenging times, and it is still proposed to cut all posts during the remainder of this four-year period. In addition, both the orchestra Norden and Circolo Scandinavio are proposed to be completely removed. This is worrying. For nearly 30 years, the Nordic Orchestra has been promoting a unique network of young musicians in Nordic and Baltic countries, including summer camps. In 1860 the three Scandinavian libraries of Rome formally merged as Circolo Scandinavia per Artisti e Scienziati. Today, Circolo Scandinavia is a good example of cooperation between all five Nordic countries. Circolo Scandinavos Residence in Roma for Nordic artists is a unique institution where Nordic artists have since 1860 had the opportunity to work in the heart of Rome and contribute mutual inspiration to the Nordic cultural heritage. Sigrid Except is among those who were in Rome several times, today there are today's working artists who can seek their way there. The Enstam report, which the Minister of Cooperation referred to in his presentation, recommends, as one of its thirteen proposals, to secure funding for the cultural, research and recreational and youth sectors. If the next generation of young people are to have the same confidence in each other and our social institutions, common language understanding and common cultural experiences will be a good contribution on the way. It requires both political and economic choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1607	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Cooperation for a good account held here on Thursday last week, and for her contributions today. The presentation shows the diversity of areas of cooperation with which it is working and which are important for Norway and the Nordic countries today and in the future. The North is bound together through our common values, culture, history and geography. The Minister for Cooperation said in his statement: ‘The history of the Nordic region in modern times must be characterised as a success story.’ I agree with that. An even stronger Nordic cooperation is therefore both natural and important. After two challenging years of pandemic, a brutal war of aggression struck Europe in February. Russia invaded its neighbouring country Ukraine. The need for and the need for good Nordic cooperation has been further reinforced. Nordic Defence Cooperation, NORDEFCO, marked the 10th anniversary of Nordic defence cooperation in 2019. Cooperation has developed significantly over the years and will develop further. The Hurdal Platform clearly states the importance of Nordic cooperation in the field of security and defence policy and that the government will give priority to it. This year, under the leadership of the Minister of Defence, Norway has the chairmanship of NORDEFCO. Here Norway could be a driver for the development of efforts to reach the vision of effective cooperation in peace, crisis and war. We have the same climatic conditions in our operating areas and have the same operational challenges to a large extent. During Cold Response this year Sweden and Finland participated with significant strengths. This was an important contribution and an indication of the geopolitical importance of the Nordic region. Social security and preparedness are another important part of Nordic cooperation. Joint capacity to prevent and reduce the consequences of critical events and disasters needs to be reinforced. This work is anchored in Haga cooperation. Haga cooperation and NORDEFCO therefore have natural areas of cooperation. Preparedness, security and defence policy cooperation are closely intertwined. Norway is a member of NATO. It is not Sweden and Finland, but we closely follow the discussion in our neighbouring country. What they fall on is, of course, up to the countries. Already today, Finland and Sweden are NATO's leading co-operation country, but any choice of full membership could have a major impact on even closer defence cooperation in the Nordic region. Nordic cooperation is about mutual obligations to work for democratic, safe and open societies. The undersigned looks forward to increased and more binding Nordic security and defence cooperation in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1627	The Nordic Council was established all the way back in 1952 and marks its 70th anniversary. The Helsinki Agreement, which provides the basis for cooperation between Norway, Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Sweden, has been in existence since 1962. There is every reason to mark 70 years of Nordic cooperation. We have a lot in common, while, of course, there are cultural differences. Nevertheless, over the years, we have developed community models that make the Nordic countries do well in living conditions surveys. The marking of the 70th anniversary is made with a gloomy rug. There is again war in Europe. Putin's cruel attack on Ukraine affects us all. It is an unacceptable attack on a people who want to live in peace, freedom and democracy – values that have helped shape the Nordic countries, but as the war in Ukraine gives us a reminder that we cannot take for granted. Nordic cooperation is also characterized by Putin's invasion of Ukraine. Where the goal has been to replace the country's leadership and destabilise, the result has been so far the opposite. Ukraine demonstrates a fantastic mobilization capability. Europe and the EU stand united and support Ukraine’s fight for freedom and democracy, contribute arms and humanitarian aid, and implement strong sanctions. NATO is stronger than ever as a defence salliance, and new countries are assessing membership. Where Putin wanted to create a rift, he has achieved the opposite. Europe and the United States are gathering in solidarity with Ukraine. In the tense and serious situation, it is important to remember that the Nordic region has extensive defence and security cooperation. It was also fully in line with our priorities when the Prime Minister recently announced an increase in exercise activity between the Swedish and Norwegian defences in the future. Both Norway and Finland have a border with Russia, and Putin's war with Ukraine has accelerated the debate on NATO membership both in Finland and in Sweden. Finland has announced that they will assess possible membership of NATO as early as this year. If both Sweden and Finland choose to enter NATO, it will contribute to further strengthening Nordic defence cooperation. The Nordic Council's vision for 2030 is that it will be the world's most sustainable and integrated region. There's something to look for. Two years of pandemic and partially closed borders have been difficult for many people living along the border who have changed their daily lives. At the same time, it is difficult to deal with this when pandemic management is different, e.g. in Norway and Sweden. The most important thing now is to learn from the experience of the pandemic and contribute to the everyday life of those living along the border, perhaps getting better, little better, the next time something like this happens. At the same time, we see the need to take action to make the Nordic region a more integrated working region. Common recognition schemes for vocational training and health professionals are something we can continue to work with. The common electronic ID would also have made everyday life much easier for a lot of people. Norway has had a power exchange with the Nordic countries since the 1960s, and we are part of an integrated Nordic power market, mainly with Sweden and Denmark. It has contributed to stability and predictability for all countries. The stability of the power market has been challenged in the last six months, and we have seen unusually high gas and electricity prices. The war in Ukraine has created a new security policy situation that also affects energy supply across Europe. Russia can no longer be considered a stable and safe supply of gas and will affect the energy situation both in Europe and in the Nordic countries. Work to create a robust and renewable energy supply in the Nordics and Europe is a crucial factor in reducing our greenhouse gas emissions as well. This is a challenge we have to solve together, which is becoming very important in Nordic cooperation in the years to come. Norway has a very important role to play in this context, both because we are a stable supplier of gas to Europe, and also because we have large renewable energy resources. We should aim to be an important player in the transition to a green and renewable Nordic region. Although the war in Europe provides a dark backdrop, the energy situation is demanding and we are facing major challenges in the transition to a greener society, there is every reason to be optimistic on behalf of the Nordic countries. Nordic cooperation and the Nordic social models are strong and are a good starting point for reaching the vision that the Nordic region will become the most sustainable and integrated region in the world by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1655	Let me start by thanking the Council of State for her presentation to the Stortinget. In a turbulent time, strong Nordic cooperation is more important than in the long run, and the Council of State seems to take her important role as Nordic Minister of Cooperation seriously. It is difficult to talk about Nordic cooperation without mentioning the war, which affects the political reality of all our countries. With its brutal attack war in Ukraine, Russia shows that the country and its leaders are willing to invade neighbouring countries in a way that we thought belonged to the past. For the Nordic countries, with our immediate proximity to the bear in the east, it is natural that Russia's invasion affects the political talks and priorities. The Nordics have been out a winter night before. Our nations have a long and shared history, a history of both ups and downs. The separate stories of our countries are a story about the Nordic countries, about cooperation and conflict, about unions and independent states. In modern times, the history of the Nordic region is a story of strong cooperation and solidarity in difficult times. The 70-year existence of the Nordic Council is thus a testimony to the important Nordic community. In its presentation, the Council of State pointed out the Nordic Prime Ministers' goals from 2019: The Nordic region will be the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030, and together we will build a green, competitive and socially sustainable Nordic region. It's ambitious, but it's a real goal. I am pleased that the Minister is clear that our vision 2030 is the road map for Norway's Presidency in the Nordic Council. Through the day-to-day work of the government, which is based on the objective of the Hurdal Platform, all our government councils and ministries are involved in building up during this important work. I want to highlight Our vision 2030's strong focus on the Nordic overall responsibility for climate and environmental change. Commitment agreements, support and exchange of experience, cross-country pilot projects, financial instruments and the instrumentation are all part of supporting a joint, coordinated Nordic action on climate and future generations. The world has been plagued by crises for most of the time since 2019. The pandemic has hit Nordic cooperation hard, and the limitations we've lived with have been a challenge to our strong community. We've come further apart, with restrictions and closed borders. In many ways, the prospect of achieving the goal of a sustainable and integrated Nordic region has challenged us, but that is exactly why it is so important that the Council of States maintains our vision 2030. If Norway is to succeed in our transformation, development and future well-being, we are completely dependent on good neighbours, having barriers and security for our common areas. The project Critical Nordic Flows and projects on green shipping and our common security of supply for food and medicine clearly show this. Last week's war in Europe shakes the world's society. Here in the North there's probably also one waker too many. When Finland and Sweden have serious discussions about applying for NATO membership, we see that the war in Ukraine and its consequences can remain as a historical roadblock in the premise of Nordic cooperation. I have to thank my co-representatives, across parties, and members of both current and previous governments for the fact that political Norway is so clear that Nordic cooperation is important. We see where I'm a member, in the Committee on Growth and Development and in the Committee on Frontier Barriers. There we talk about increasing mobility between countries and the importance of digital integration — that is, being able to have electronic identification in another country’s services. We are talking about digital driving licences, joint energy focus – how can we cooperate more and reduce dependence on oil and gas from Russia? We're talking about community and common banking applications, so we simplify payments between people, like Vipps, that we have in Norway. And we're talking about how we can strengthen our common preparedness, and how we can cooperate more around sustainable development. Indeed, the Nordic model focuses on all aspects of sustainable development. Without social sustainability and justice, we cannot achieve ecological sustainability. Of course, we are also talking about increased cooperation on infrastructure. STRING attended our previous meeting in Malmö and pointed out the importance of just that. A Nordic Council of Ministers for Infrastructure and Digitalisation could support the important work. Together, we're all going to contribute to the Nordics reaching the targets of Our Vision 2030. It is a work I look forward to supporting the Council of State in, through my participation in the Committee on Growth and Development, and in the Border Obstacles Group.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1674	Then we take a break in case number. 7 and 8, and it's ringing for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1686	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1–5 and Case No. 12 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1698	In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy of Great Britain is asked to set up an independent selection to investigate and propose the establishment of an independent Board of Appeal on matters of transparency of documents of the Administration and Presidency of the Grand Duchy.’ An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the suspension of the presidency. The Presidency had set the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1729	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The report rejects direct financial support to the Nobel Institute in order to ensure the independence of the Nobel Committee from the political authorities and refers to the good opportunities of sponsors such as private foundations and companies for fixed sponsorship agreements.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1763	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit to the Stortinget the interministerial investigation ‘Exports of welfare benefits’ from 2014 with its annexes.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1796	During the debate, Mr Wold tabled four proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Red. There is a vote on proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a recall and forcing the use of resources to other asylum and residence cases.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1815	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The Government is asked to investigate and propose a limitation period which, after a certain period, rescinds the possibility of withdrawing citizenship under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the National Act, with the exception of those who abuse a Norwegian citizenship which they have been misrepresented, or actively use different identities to commit serious crime.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to decide on the introduction of a period of time from the time when prior notice of withdrawal of citizenship has been sent until a decision has been taken by the foreign authorities at first instance.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a bill to impose a double nationality requirement in order to withdraw citizenship.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1851	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1870	During the debate Mari Holm Lønseth has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals as soon as possible for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act which provide for visits and examination of mobile phones and other electronic storage devices in connection with the registration of asylum.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1972	The size goes back to the debate in Case No. 7 and 8. The next speaker is Lene Westgaard-Halle.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e1977	Freedom - know a little after when you hear the word freedom. What do you think? Do you think about the freedom to say and mean what you want? Do you think about the freedom to travel where you want – we've known it a little in the last few years – or getting married to whoever you want? Or do you just think of the sense of freedom you get when you go on a delicious trip in the mountain? What do you think in the hall here that a Ukrainian thinks when she hears the word freedom? Many of us in the Nordic region take freedom a little too far. It's been very many years since the war. We live in a free, democratic country with enormous quantities of oil and huge quantities of fish. We're more equal than most other countries, we can say and do pretty much what we want. And we have, even though prices are rising a little bit right now, better advice than in most other countries. We're free. Depending on Russian gas limits the freedom of a number of countries, and here the Nordics can play a very important role. The new reality of geopolitics and the energy market means that we must dramatically accelerate the transition to clean energy. We must increase Europe's energy independence from unreliable suppliers and volatile fossil fuels. Nordic energy cooperation is unique in the world and has a long history. Aliens are not new inventions. It has made energy supply in the Nordic region stable for almost 100 years. The first step towards cooperation was taken when a sea cable was laid out between Denmark and Sweden as early as 1915. Today, Nordic energy cooperation is the most integrated regional cooperation in the world and is often referred to as a model internationally. The five Nordic countries together are able to compete on the world market, especially in the climate and energy sectors. Thanks to the Nordic countries and the fact that they have a wide palette of different energy sources, we complement each other, and we can benefit from each other's strengths through close cooperation. As far as carbon intensity is concerned, the Nordic electricity mix is 25 years ahead of the rest of the world. Nordic CO 2 emissions per electricity unit produced were one fifth of the global average a few years ago. The strength, security and stability of a common Nordic power market have also enabled us to help countries in the east, such as the United States and Japan. the Baltic States. Lithuania was previously totally dependent on Russia for the most part on its energy. They broke, according to the President of Lithuania, with blackmail from Russia. Now they are connected with the Nordic region through the BaltLit cable, which everyone has probably heard about, which has increased security of supply for Lithuania and helped to make them completely independent from just Russia. The president summed this up in three words this week: we're free. One of Poland's energy specialists describes Poland's work to be independent of Russian energy in the following way: it's not really about energy, it's about the transformation from one political system to another. This is about political stability, and it is about democracy. Europe wants to reduce its dependence on Russian gas after the invasion of Ukraine — obviously. A few weeks ago, the European Commission presented the plan to cut imports of Russian gas by two thirds during this year. The measures that the EU will take include more liquid natural gas on the world market. In addition, EU countries will increase energy efficiency improvement efforts to reduce gas consumption for building heating. The EU wants massive deployment of renewable energy such as solar and wind power and hydrogen production and imports. Here we have a very big comparative advantage in the Nordic region. In addition, they want to bet on biogas and increase the electrification of society. But energy policy in the Nordic region is about much more than access to cheap, clean power, it acts like ensuring Europe's citizens freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2003	Nordic cooperation is strong, and it has been strong for decades. Nordic cooperation is so strong and our countries are so integrated that you don't necessarily think that we are in different countries when we visit each other. Of course, this is especially true in our border areas, where people both work and live their lives across a far-off non-existent border. Being able to move freely across our borders has been seen as a matter of course. This, of course, got a crack under the coronary apathy. The boundaries were closed and there were consequences for us all, especially for those who live along our borders. One might say, to a certain extent, that Nordic cooperation has broken a little bit in the joints. Each country was committed to protecting life and health for its own inhabitants, and the different countries chose different strategies for reversing the pandemic. The different countries have evaluated their own actions, and I don't think I'm going to spend time here talking about who was most or least right. But the reality is that the situation we've been in clearly shows how dependent we are on each other, and that we now need to rebuild and strengthen the trust we've had in the Nordic region ever since World War II. As members of the welfare committee of the Nordic Council, we address issues that are at the heart of the Nordic welfare model. That's the model that the rest of the world is looking at when improvements are to be made. It's the model that ensures that society sets up for everyone when it's needed, and we're gonna be proud of that. But we are also going to use cooperation wisely in the future, for each of us the Nordic countries are quite small. Together, we are a significantly greater force. So when we agree that we're going to put antibiotic resistance high on the agenda, that means something. It means something to us who live in the Nordic region, and it means something to the rest of the world, because the pandemic has shown us that disease does not stop at the national border, and antibiotic resistance is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges of our time. Based on our cooperation and our common weight, I am pleased that the Social Democratic Group in the Nordic Council has recently been able to see through to important issues for our common well-being. We have raised the challenges of border trade in cosmetic interventions, where we need to ensure that legislation in our countries is coordinated. And we have proposed that, together with our Nordic friends, we look at research and the fight against so-called "long covid". Especially when it comes to medical research and development, it is essential that we stand together. It was thus confirmed by the principal of the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm, the Norseman Ole Petter Ottersen – a formerly a Norwegian, in Nordic cooperation – when the Health and Care Committee visited the Karolinska Institute on our committee's mission. The pandemic has shown us some vulnerabilities in our own country and in our neighbouring country. This has been particularly true for emergency equipment. All Nordic countries, with a certain exception in Finland, have been dependent on an overheated world market when it comes to infectious diseases and other medical devices. We need to learn from that, and we need to assess whether we should work together to develop our cooperation so that we are better rusted when the next pandemic strikes. Violence in close relationships and partner killings is, unfortunately, a major challenge in all our Nordic countries. In the last meeting, in Malmö, this was promised as a topic, and I am pleased that the welfare committee agreed that we should continue to work on this. Too many, especially women, live in fear and uncertainty. Here, too, our joint effort can hopefully produce absolutely necessary results. The Nordic Council has existed for 70 years. Cooperation has served us well, and our people want more cooperation across our countries. Together we're going to show way. We're going to show way in health, climate, culture and equality. Together, the Nordic welfare and social model will continue to be something the rest of the world looks at.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2024	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2029	This year it is 70 years since the Nordic Council was established, and Nordic cooperation has marked the development of the Nordic countries in all those years. Citizens can travel between Nordic countries without passports, many regions have a common labour market across national borders, and often there are cultural and cross-border leisure activities. In my area, the kids from Sweden play football at Brekken, because it's the place that's closest to having comrades. This has worked well, until the pandemic hit us. The fact that the different Nordic countries chose different infectious strategies, which differed in particular from Sweden, made it necessary to close many borders, for example: between Norway and Sweden, for longer periods to prevent import infection. It had a major impact on many people, especially in border regions. Worst thing happened to those who did not get to work, school or be able to visit close to family, but of course it also had consequences for the businesses in border areas. The closure was absolutely necessary, but created strong reactions, especially from politicians in Sweden. The dialogue and mutual information could have been better. We have to take that into account for ourselves. But I am surprised by the strong reaction and the feedback that this weakens the trust between the Nordic countries. Fortunately, the borders are now open again, and we must all contribute to restoring trust between countries as soon as possible. In 2019, the Nordic Council adopted a vision of becoming the world’s most sustainable and integrated region. Although we are constantly working on detecting and solving border barriers, we have a lot to deal with, and there are many different problems to address. For example, geo-blocking, ambulances from Norway who cannot assist on the Swedish side because they cannot have medicine, payment solutions that do not work, contractors who have to pay large amounts of money to bring machines across borders, various mortgage systems, tax systems, social security systems, and not least educations that are not automatically approved between different countries. Many barriers are solved, but new ones appear all the time. We may need to be better off when we adopt new rules around the various parliaments, that we are thinking about the consequences for the Nordic region. But it's also very good that we've got. There are many examples of cross-border cooperation, for example: the single police station at Magnor, Green Flyway, the green aviation project in Central Norway and the specialist health service across borders, such as: in the Røros region.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2042	Thanks to the Minister of Cooperation for the presentation to the Stortinget on the cooperation in the Nordic Council. Like the representative, Mr Greni, I would like to comment a little bit on the pandemic and the practical experience and challenges that are across borders. The pandemic has been challenging for all Nordic countries. In particular, Norwegian grips and restrictions have produced reactions from the Swedish side. I share the views of the Minister of Cooperation that we must take the reactions seriously. Nordic cooperation has proven itself well through the pandemic despite temporary restrictions and different national approaches. Let me take a run-off to homely tracts and to what we ghostly call East Trøndelag. Røyrvik and Lierne municipalities have experienced incomprehensible barriers during the pandemic with Frostviken and Hotagen in Sweden. This is a common housing and work area with our two Swedish neighbouring areas and the border areas of Strömsund and Krokom Municipality. Those who live there have probably rarely thought that the limit is crossed in everyday life. Business, with commuters and missions across the border, has met with demanding restrictions. Municipal employees with critical social functions living on the other side of the border did not get to work. Voluntary activities and organisations with members living on both sides of the border were not crossed. Family, relatives, and friends living together in everyday life were separated. Yes, even the priest had difficulty crossing the boundary in his function. An absolute barrier pandemic breaks up a fused community that is denser and stronger woven together across the border than with the nearest town or town on each side of the border. The municipalities of East Trøndelag and Jämtland have established a pilot project on border crossing for residents under a pandemic. The action has been launched, financed and driven by the local populace and their municipalities. The aim is to maintain local communities with culture and working life across borders and to develop a safe and natural border area. A small Norwegian-Swedish society, poor in its inhabitants, but rich in nature, lives without any frontiers with its experience of a pandemic. I hope that national authorities will support such communities, and I would like to invite the Council of State to visit on occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2057	In order for Nordic cooperation to be relevant, and not least in relation to increasing cooperation at European level, it is essential that it reflects the priorities of the Nordic countries and the current challenges they face. Cooperation must be relevant, targeted, effective – and not least: it must be prioritised by all. One of the four priority areas of the Danish Presidency was Nordic defence and preparedness cooperation – and no one really knew how topical that theme was going to be. The security situation in Europe calls for closer and closer defence and preparedness cooperation between the Nordic countries, where it is natural, to give countries different forms of association both to the EU and to NATO. NATO membership is at the top of the agenda in our two Nordic co-operation countries, and decisions will be taken in these countries that will be historic, no matter what they choose. But the important thing is that Nordic cooperation is there, and that will be the case no matter what decision you take. I also think it's important to point that out. The Nordic governments agree that the aim is to strengthen cooperation in general crisis preparedness, and that is what will be the next theme, I am convinced, in all these countries. When this situation somehow comes into another phase, we will talk about general emergency preparedness. It'll be a quantum leap in relation to what we've been experiencing since the war. Here there will be many current problems on the table, and they will come quite quickly. The responsibility must, of course, be with the specialist ministers and professional authorities, as was said, but the Minister of Cooperation must, as the Council of State, have overall responsibility for coordinating the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. It's a very important work we're facing. There are interesting suggestions that the government will consider, as I see it, among other things. the possibility of even better and more systematic communication between countries when a crisis situation arises. A dedicated network for such communication, which may also involve more formalised procedures, will be discussed. What solutions are agreed on remains to be seen, but it is very important that this work is given the highest priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2066	There's no doubt, this is one of the debates that I've been to associated with the Nordic Council that there's been the most engagement around. There have been good speeches, obviously in the light of the serious situation we in Europe are in, and how important Nordic cooperation is to peace, development and democracy. That is why I am pleased that the government puts Nordic cooperation so high on the agenda – among other things. through this debate now – not least with the Ministerial Programme now in place in 2022, which points to the objectives of vision 2030 of a green and sustainable Nordic region that is competitive and not least social. In 2023, Norway shall take the staf stick further from Finland with responsibility for the Nordic Council. The process of creating an application has already been started. But from the serious situation of defence, preparedness, security, energy, etc.The Nordic Council is also a very cultural organisation with many important issues. The Nordic clinker boat tradition, with clinker construction used to build the Viking ships, was included in the UNESCO list of intangible cultural heritage in December 2021. Common history is also cultural heritage. St. Olav’s Ways to Trondheim is part of the European cultural pathways, financed by the Council of Europe. It is unique among European cultural pathways, because it goes both to sea and to land. No other cultural pathways have this possibility. Pilgrim cooperation is and will be part of our national anniversary in 2030, Norway for 1000 years. The anniversary has already started around the country, and the national anniversary must officially set up a national committee during Olsok 2022, which will be a natural leader for further work, cf. The way this was organized during our 1814 anniversary. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of the Nordic Council prizes. The Nordic Council prizes, such as the literature prize, the music prize, the film prize, the environmental prize and the children's and young people's literature prize, continue an important cultural heritage in the Nordic region, and during our main session we also have a good tradition of raising the nominees of the cultural carriers who receive the prizes. I hope that in the time we are in now, we can continue the good tradition of supporting the important cultural work done throughout the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2087	Thank you to the Minister of Cooperation for the presentation, and also thank you for what I experience as a very great commitment to Nordic cooperation. In the health field, Nordic cooperation has many positive aspects. We're close to each other in how we organize our health services, and we share many of the same challenges. The fact that we are so close to each other and have organized ourselves in a similar way probably also enables us to make a good contribution when we are going to accept Ukrainian refugees to the North. Then we are all happy that there is close and close cooperation between us, for Sweden ensured Norway access to vaccines through the EU as we needed it most during the pandemic. The Prime Minister's vision of the Nordic region becoming the most sustainable and integrated region in the world must apply in all areas, including health, and we have a lot to do better in the years to come, because the pandemic showed us that we have major challenges when the borders are closed. We noticed it very well on access to healthcare professionals. We need to give health professionals the opportunity to have the Nordic region as a common working area, and then we also have some demanding tasks to do to ensure that there is something more similar practice in how to authorize health professionals, so that we have the opportunity to use the important resource fully. So it's a big advantage, and it's that we have a common language, which means that you can work across borders if you're a health care professional in the other countries. The same applies to research. We have a lot of excellent research each for us. We can also get much more excellent research together, perhaps especially on rare diseases and disorders. This means that we need the entire population base in the Nordic region in order to be able to do better research. Another area is the fight against antibiotic resistance. It is very important that the Nordic countries continue the work started in that area and stand together in the fight against antibiotic resistance, which is a great threat to many of us if it comes out of control altogether. Finally, I would also like to say that the Nordic Council Welfare Committee is also working on issues related to gender equality, democracy, human rights and the fight against crime. My good colleague Truls Vasvik from the Workers' Party was involved. We can do more when it comes to combating violence against women. All of these areas I mentioned are areas where our countries are closest to the top of the world. But we can't sleep. We can't rest on the laurels, and we have to keep working on these things together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2101	Since both the Minister of Cooperation and colleagues representing the Association of the Nordic countries are here, I would like to start by thanking you both for the great and strong film show we had a few weeks back, as well as for the marking on the Nordic Day fortification. The Nordic countries are geographically and fatefully located in the same corner of the world – in many ways a cold corner of the world, but also a very popular hot corner. Although we share and cooperate with many countries and areas, not least in Europe, it is something that binds the Nordic region together both culturally, linguistically, economically and not least historically to its own community. As many people have experienced, it has at times been a little more demanding to see all the relevance of Nordic cooperation, but it has become more clear now than ever before in terms of both borders, security, energy, preparedness and – as the speaker before me was involved – also to be able to play with each other when you need skills in different fields of work, as you have needed within the health system under the pandemic. I am pleased with the opportunity to be a member of the Nordic Council delegation again after representing Norway in the Nordic Council of Youth many years ago. My wish in this debate is to say that it is also important that we keep a strong focus on reducing the barriers that apply to ordinary people in terms of education, employment opportunities, etc., reducing real barriers and barriers so that Nordic citizens can work, travel and study across our borders without the same obstacles that are traditionally found across borders. There is still a lot to be addressed, whether in the case of tax barriers or other barriers. I hope we can focus on the solutions for ordinary people, not just the things you're concerned about in terms of political cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2114	Finally, I will only be allowed to make a few comments on a few of the posts that have been linked to border closures and border barriers. I think everyone, both all the parties in Stortinget and everyone who was in different ways affected by border closures as a result of the pandemic, experienced it as very demanding. There was nothing anyone wanted to do, but it was primarily a consequence of two things in particular. One was that the Nordic countries actually chose different strategies for their pandemic management. The second was that the infection rates in the Nordic countries were also very different, and Sweden distinguished itself with a different strategy from the other Nordic countries, as well as with a different infection situation. I'm not going to say what was right and wrong strategy. My point is that the Storting was also very concerned about, namely limiting the import infection, necessarily had to have some consequences. Unfortunately, this was something that struck across large parts of Europe and the world – different forms of border barriers we would like to be ahead of – and I have no problem understanding the challenges it posed in border areas, which also made the government do its job to try to compensate as best as possible for, for example, the situation. retirement of labour income. This was also something that became a thematic in several of the bilateral relations in the Nordic region, also because Sweden and Finland had similar frontier barriers between themselves, and I can tell you that this was also an important part of what I would say was very good discussions between the Nordic Foreign Ministers. We had video meetings at least once a week when the pandemic was on at worst, where we also tried to solve small and big questions related to this. My point was definitely not to extend the debate, but I think it's okay to remember the story, now that the pandemic is a little distant, about why it was necessary to implement the measures that both we and other countries carried out, and that it was therefore a consequence of choosing a different strategy for dealing with the pandemic, different infectious situations in the Nordic countries, and also what the Storting was, in my opinion, quite rightly concerned about, what we could do to limit the import infection and thus avoid becoming more vulnerable than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2127	No more people have asked for the floor, and the debate in case No. 7 and 8 are over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2145	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2152	First, thank you to the Cooperation Committee on this matter. The proposal is made by representatives of all civil parties and calls for the repeal of the decision to suspend applications for new private schools of the type Profile Schools and Professional Private Schools, where the government has notified it of its intention to propose the removal of the recognition basis for such schools. The Committee held an open consultation on the draft representative on Thursday 3 March this year. SV is engaged in a strong public common school where the plumber’s daughter meets and learns with the lawyer’s son, where children and young people with different experiences in the school bag learn together. It is essential for building a society with strong communities and small differences, where different people have equal opportunities. Because what's the actual alternative? Well, it's a school where children and young people are divided from a class background, from an economic point of view, from a culture, religion or anything else, and it creates a society with greater inequality and longer distances between people. Therefore, it is important to reverse the developments we have seen over many years, where there have been an increasing number of new private schools, including in competition with the community school, against the wishes of the municipalities. We have seen a number of examples of the setting up of private schools against the wishes of municipalities or counties, which means that public schools cannot be developed further and still have to be laid down, because the student base is too low. Therefore, it is necessary to tighten in. Private schools shall be a complement to the general public school. It can be very positive, for diversity, that there are alternatives, that there are schools that in some cases can offer something that the public can't, is good, but that's not the discussion we have today. This is not where the matter stands, after years of release from the right side. So it's important to say that of course there's also a great need to develop the common school further. Training needs to be more practical and varied, and we need more qualified teachers with time to see and help each student. Today, many municipalities experience that private school leaven stands in the way of further development of the primary school. Therefore, it is reasonable to tighten the law, and then, in the opinion of the SV, it is also reasonable to suspend applications until the new law has been passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2167	Equal opportunities for knowledge and education are one of the most important things we have in society and in Norway. It keeps the differences down, it allows everyone to take the education they want, and it gives us the skills we need as a society. The principle of equal access to knowledge has always been strong in Norway, and when we in the Workers' Party defend this, it's about what society we want. The Labour Party believes that the primary school, where all children meet independently of background and economy, is the best way to protect this principle. A development in which many new private schools are set up in a short time challenges the primary school. In the last ten years, almost a hundred new private schools have arrived. The right-hand government has increased the proportion of private schools by almost 30 pst. In the same period, funds have been transferred from primary to private schools amounting to 2.7 billion. kr. Resources and resources have been shifted from public to private and reduced opportunities for development and for creating new offers. Many times this has also happened against local support. This is a development that has happened quickly, and if it continues, I am concerned about how society will evolve. Norway is not alone in the world to provide free education, but in many countries this principle has been abandoned. The result is that young people’s ability to learn often depends on whether their parents took education. Possibilities are inherited, and economic differences exist in a society. We don't have to go further than to our neighboring United Kingdom to see the differences in a classed educational community. How many fewer sons of a nurse or daughters of a craftsman would be able to take higher education if we had evolved in that direction and it had been allowed to sit in Norway as well? We like to think that the free principle is so strong in Norway that it can never be challenged, but I believe that the last years of the Right-Registration have shown the opposite. The Joint School has been challenged. On the right, there seems to be little concern about an increase in school money, increasing numbers of private schools and increasing diversity in classrooms. This also affects society. Equal opportunities for knowledge and education are one of the most important things we have in Norway, which is why we need to defend it. We believe that the freezing decision must continue until a new law has been passed and a new direction has been set.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2178	This is not about whether you are in favour of or against fresh oils. Today we are dealing with an important issue concerning students who had intended to apply for a slightly different offer. It concerns the examination of eight applications. It's about ideology in general, but in small terms it's about schools that have dealt with current legislation, and about students' dreams and opportunities, schools that have been in dialogue with businesses, municipalities and county councils with the aim of making an offer that is both needed and requested locally. We respect the fact that the government has a different view of health schools than what we have, but it is difficult to understand that they are now affecting actors who have dealt with current legislation. The reason is that the political majority in the Grand Duchy has changed. While the previous government thought that fresh oils are an important alternative for those who want it and that it creates a greater diversity, the government now wants a new direction. We'll take note of that. The issue today is predictability and respect for a few actors who have contributed to our important societal mission by educating more people. It is alarming that the government will not now deal with the applications for the eight schools that have applied for the current legislation. There is little predictability in the procedure, and it affects those who have dealt with laws and regulations. This case should not be about ideology. It should be a matter of common sense and a relationship with the applicable rules and laws. The proposition of the 2015 Law on Free Schooling states: ‘The Ministry assumes that the general rule shall be that, if the conditions are considered to be met, authorisation shall be granted. Administrative principles on procedural and non-discrimination requirements ensure that decisions do not become arbitrary.’;» It is a challenge if we are to have a legal state where discretionary administrative decisions can postpone treatment until the authorities want to deal with them, only on the basis of changing and not formally confirmed policy positions. During the hearing and at the first speeches that have been here today, it is obvious to hear how the government parties and the SV ask questions about the ideological and principal around the freshies and do not relate to the freezing decision itself. This is about it. The freezing decision is at the heart of this matter. This freezing decision prejudges the treatment of a legislative amendment which has not yet been submitted by the Storting. The applications pending have been submitted in accordance with the guidelines of the Directorate of Education. Schools have put work into planning and operation and cooperate with the host municipalities to find good solutions over a long period of time. Governments should be characterised by predictability and fairness. Today, government parties are going in the opposite direction. It hit students who had dreamed of going to a school they thought would come. With that, I'm going to deal with that proposal right there is a part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2204	The representative Margret Hagerup has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2209	We have a goal that we should make the Norwegian school better. We also have a goal that the Norwegian school should be solid and for everyone. The Norwegian school shall be available wherever there are people and in the innermost village where there is light in the houses. We are concerned that private profiling schools are increasingly pushing public schools and, in worst cases, competing with good public schools so that students lose both freedom of choice and important education. In several places around Norway, we have seen examples of the establishment of private profile schools that, in direct competition to the public offer, take away students from freedom of choice. Because some students choose to quit public school, the students who wanted to go to school in the countryside where they live stand alone without an offer. It's a development we're worried about. We believe this is a development that both the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have honoured, and that it has been at the expense of students' freedom of choice around Norway. Therefore, this legislation is now tightening up the number of private profile schools. Therefore, the examination of these applications is suspended until the legislation is finalised here in the Stortinget. I need to say that we in the Center Party want to have a pragmatic approach to this matter. It is therefore important for us to make it clear that this freezing decision is not to cut all schools over one chamber, but that it concerns private profile schools and some vocational schools. We want to have good, solid public schools around the country. I am pleased that our government is going to be involved in and develop. So it's important here that we give local people elected in both municipalities and have a stronger voice and a better influence, precisely because it's those who know the best conditions where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2222	The common school is still the main rule in Norway, and I think we all in this room agree that should be the case in the future. The freezing decision is therefore a sad decision. Too many people are sad. It's sad for those students like me. want to bet on sports and go to a gym. It's sad for those students who know that real science is their call, and that they want to go to a free school that rates within it. It's sad for those students who need alternative pedagogics, who feel that the common school is not for them, and who need another way of learning. And it's also sad for what we're trying to do in the professional field, that's to raise the status of the professions, because it also affects vocational schools that want to bet on it in a different way. It's also sad for many others. It is sad for business, regional business that they lack a good offer in certain fields — for example: the aquamarine, for which the Committee has heard examples — and which therefore chooses to bet on schools offering local business needs. It's sad for the fight against apostasy, because we know that many of these schools have succeeded better in the fight against apostasy than the public school. It's not that strange either, given that people who choose to apply for these schools, often are a little bit more motivated, because they know what they want to bet on. This freezing decision is also sad for the diversity of the Norwegian school system. I believe that diversity in schools, in how to run them, what kind of offers you have and what kind of pedagogics you offer, makes the school system as a whole better. This is also sad for the regional effort, which, after all, is why some of these schools have come into being. And then it is sad for the schools – serious actors who have chosen to deal with existing legislation and with the deadlines that apply and who are suddenly informed overnight that the laws and regulations of the country, adopted by this room or laid down in the regulation, are suddenly set aside even if the law has not been amended. And finally, I also think it's sad because of social inequality, because going to private school costs. You'd like to have parents with good advice to go to a private school. But colleges also allow ordinary pupils and ordinary families to send their children to private schools offering a different type of pedagogy or a different type of specialisation and focus than the public general school does, because these schools are largely subsidized by the public. It's an honest thing that the new government and the new majority have a different view than me and many others in this room at how many private schools and hospitals we're going to have. However, setting aside a current law, without changing the law as it should be, is also a wrong procedure and the wrong way to change policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2237	The left considers that there should be room for more fresh oils in Norway. Free schools with important courses or different pedagogical arrangements provide more diversity and freedom of choice for students. In addition, it provides important inspiration, and it is a strong complement to public schools. Of course, public schools should continue to be the general rule, and it is important to build up quality and customised public school training services. However, health schools are an important and good alternative for many who want something different from what the public school offers, and contribute to increasing diversity in the school sector. Therefore, the Left is critical that the government has suspended the processing of applications to become a post-secondary school under the Law on Secondary Education, and considers it to be contrary to current law. In addition, the freezing decision prejudges the treatment of a legislative amendment not yet submitted by the Storting. The applications pending have been submitted in accordance with the guidelines of the Directorate of Education. Furthermore, work has been put into planning and operation and cooperation with the host municipality for, inter alia, to find good solutions for barley. This is not the predictability and fairness of government. Many places in Norway have been working for a long time and well in setting up post-school services that are desired in the community and can contribute to good development in the municipality. I know one thing, in Asker in Akershus – and the Council of State has represented Akershus earlier, even now. In Asker a long time has been worked for a secondary school in cooperation with the Norwegian Realfachsgymnas and Norwegian Cycling Association. The Velodrom project in Asker has been around for almost ten years and has gathered enormously with forces and team effort to get through. Then it's an incredible shame that ideology is going to go into the wheels for the operation of Asker's new big room. Ever since the start of the Velodrom project in Asker, the idea of schooling related to the facility has been central. So this sudden unforeseeable thing. The left considers that the government should ensure regular treatment without delay of the applications received, which are now pending changes in the law. It had ensured the expected predictability of the schools that have applied for, and provided students, parents and businesses with an alternative offer to the highly sought public school. Instead, the government prejudges the treatment of notified proposals for changes to the law on high school, which we consider to be critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2250	Norway is becoming more and more diverse. Therefore, it is a paradox that, at the same time, the main school reform for the civil parties in the 2000s has been privatisation and school fragmentation. Norwegian School has a broad mandate. The school should both form and educate. To put it another way: each child is to be prepared both professionally and socially for the society in which he or she will function as an adult. While society is becoming more diverse, our classrooms have become smaller by the same token. Under the Solberg government, two new private schools were approved on average every month. That should worry us. It is stated in the Hurdal platform and has been clearly notified even before the elections that the government will tighten the Private School Act by removing profile schools and vocational training as a recognition basis for state subsidies, and strengthening the opportunities of local elected representatives to say no to new private schools and extensions of existing schools. At the same time, we will continue the qualification basis for schools that are more effective complements to the general public school, such as montessori schools, stone schools, international schools, etc. My starting point has been that this policy change will be implemented as soon as possible. After an election, of course, it is both important and natural that policies that have been voted on and which are also anchored in the government's political platform begin to work. I therefore sent a proposal in autumn 2021 for consultation to abolish the two qualification bases for secondary education in vocational education and training programmes and the specific profile. These two qualification bases were incorporated into the Act in 2015 on a proposal from the Solberg Government. The Government intends to present the proposal to abolish these two bases of approval for the Storting in a legislative proposal this spring. Pending the expected law treatment of the Storting in the spring of 2022, the Department instructed 15 November 2021 Education Directorate to suspend the examination of applications for approval of new schools under the second paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Law on Secondary Education, the letters (h) and (i). The same applies to applications for approval of operational changes in schools currently approved on these two grounds. The stay of the application procedure resulting from the instructions is due to a stay, cf. the first paragraph of Section 11a of the Administrative Act. Applications will be examined as soon as the Stortinget has examined the legislative proposal. The directive provides for a consistent and equal treatment of applications pending on 15 November 2021. The applicants affected by the instructions were specifically notified.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2271	On written questions, the Council of State has answered me as she now said in the pulpit as well, that the applications are not dealt with due to. a stay due, cf. the first paragraph of Section 11a of the Administrative Act. The Council of State further writes in the answer that the reason is that the democratic majority has changed. The laws of this country apply until they are repealed. Isn't that a principle we're going to have to sanction?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2278	There is a principle that we are going to sanction, and this law also provides for the possibility of stopping the processing of these types of applications on a case-by-case basis, in line with the law. It is that when a school is first approved to start and operate, it has its approval forever. So this is a question in the category: when the toothpaste is first out of the tube, it's hard to push it back. I hear that several of the representatives here are in and say that the primary school is normal. The majority of our students go there, that's the general rule in Norway. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that in recent years the trend has been for us to set up more private schools, while several public schools are being set up. This means that all those who now say that they are for the common school as a general rule, should also agree that it should be tightened, because at some point these two graphs intersect, and then the common school will no longer be the general rule. Therefore, I believe it is right to put the freezing law into effect as we have done, pending a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2287	I thank you for the answer and see that we disagree on the way of administration. The council chooses to talk about profile schools in general. The outcome of the government's handling of freezing applications is not only a discussion of legality, administrative practices and legal precedent, it also means something to a number of people's dedicated efforts and efforts to create a school. They have made an application, and they have had a plan for potential construction, employment and start-up of school services, which requires enormous effort. These applicants and the schools experience that a dream of setting up an important school offer was abruptly rejected in the Council of State and the government’s fight against private initiative. Can the Council of State see that stopping these legitimate applications is very unfair to those people who have worked long and well under what is in force in order to meet requirements and criteria?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2294	I think it is good that many people follow their dream, even when it comes to, for example. establishing a school. However, I assume that anyone who intends to apply to start a school also knows when there are elections in Norway, and you may not be so surprised that the outcome of a choice can lead to consequences for what you intend to achieve. I'm really most concerned about the students, the ones who might have applied to these schools. To them I would say that I hope they get a positive experience anyway by going to a different school than they might have imagined. My promise – and I think there are several representatives in this room who share an ambition – is to do all I can to help the public school be so exciting and varied that it feels like it's good to go there even if you'd thought of something else. In order to succeed, we depend on using the large resources, the resources we have in school, in the school where most students go, and that's in our common public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2303	Norway needs more real professional skills to meet the challenges of the future in business and to ensure that we have something to live on even after oil. We in Akershus are so lucky to have a profile school with just a focus on real science – mathematics, science, programming and technology. NRG-U established in Sandvika has applied for the creation of two new training sites in Asker and Bærum. What does the Council of State have against this specific school, which means that she has stopped the examination of the application for the creation of two new training places, an application sent within the applicable law and within the applicable application period?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2308	The Council of State has nothing special against these two concrete schools, but the Council of State has a look at what we should do to strengthen the common public school to which all our children and young people have access, and where everyone, regardless of whether they have the opportunity to pay school money or not, is given the opportunity to be just as good in, for example. math like what they want and can do. I agree that there is a need for more people who are good in real science. But there's no reason, either formally or informally, that we can't succeed in our common public school. However, if there are municipalities that would be able to strengthen their real-time vocational activity through private schools that are now ending up not being established, the municipality can make a similar contribution to the public school. If e.g. Askers have a desire to invest more in real science, you can do it, and I hope Askers do, because I agree that we can do more to make more children and young people as real science and perform well in real science.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2315	The Council of State has been in a hurry both to introduce this freezing decision and to amend the law, which I understand will be presented tomorrow, at least parts of it, which will make it more difficult to open up fresh schools in Norway. So the Council of State says that she has the aim and ambition to be able to offer more varied education to the public, with more alternative types of education than you have today. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what she has actually done so far as the Council of State so that the public school can offer some of the alternative study facilities and focus areas offered by many of these schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2320	The last time I had an exchange of lines with the representative Gulati, I am sure that I was criticised for being too late. Now I get criticism for being too fast, and it tells me that I'm right in the middle and keeping perfect speed. The whole point is that, for example: There are no formal obstacles to the provision of increased real-time investment. If the municipalities, as it is now widely spoken of as having a desire for these schools to establish themselves, have a genuine desire to strengthen the real-time vocational training in their school, they can do so. It is tempting to ask why it is only important to strengthen, for example: The real job when it's a private school. Why isn't the commitment as strong, if you think it's a real need, to do the same in public school? There are no formal barriers to it. You can have a profile and extra bets in public school. There are most of our students. More of our resources should be used, and more of our kids should be able to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2327	It's right to tighten the law, to stop it from getting out of private schools we've seen. But of course School Norway is not black and white, which is not a field. Private schools can be an important addition to public schools, and an example of these are the so-called cultural heritage schools – the Plus school, the Furniture carpenters school and the Hjerleid Crafts school. These are established schools with a long history, offering traditional crafts that are important for the preservation of Norway’s intangible cultural heritage — e.g. to exercise the craft construction profession in practice. They provide education that the public is not in a position to offer, simply or simply. These schools are hit, really without anyone's mind, often by the big debate about primary and private school. These schools are currently receiving a curtailed grant and are also affected by this freezing decision. When the Council of State works with new legislation and funding, is she aware of these schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2332	It's the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2337	A blow in the face, says the cycling association about the freezing decision, for Norway's Realfachsgymnas Jugendskole, NRG-U, in Asker. «Of course, for all local forces that have been involved in the establishment of this school, this is a blow to the face. Especially for NRG-U, which is responsible for the unique pedagogics at the bottom of the cooperation.» That is what the Chairman of the Norwegian Cycling Association's Competence Centre, Dag Schartum-Hansen, said in an opinion. The main negative consequence lies in the activity that 200 NRG-U youth would create in the environment around the velodrome – 200 young people who would daily become familiar with all the velodrome can offer and who would be good ambassadors into a local environment we depend on to become acquainted with. My question is: what does the Council of State say to the cycling environment in Norway, which refers to the government's behaviour as a blow to the face?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2350	I would like to say to the bicycle association and to others who are committed to establishing this school, that they should contact the municipality and ask whether the municipality can not establish similar offers with them. The buildings are there, and the exposure is clearly there. An analysis has been carried out and an assessment of the interest of the students in this. I am pleased that sport, private business and the municipalities can cooperate well. If there is a need to establish a secondary school offer with bicycles and real-life skills in Asker, which I absolutely do not doubt, there is really no reason that the municipality of Asker can't do this on its own. I'll support them in that, if they choose to do so. I hope that the school debate in the future can be more about content, quality and what we do so that every child can succeed, whether they like to ride or not, and less about who should own and run the schools, and that together we get a joint effort to use the great, important resources we have, on the most important of all of us. It's the youngest, and it's our students.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2357	Replicate cord shift complete. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2364	One of the most valuable things we have is the Norwegian Joint School, which gives all children, regardless of sex, background and financial conditions, the opportunity to get a good education. Unfortunately, the Norwegian single school is under heavy pressure after the previous government opened up to nearly 100 new private schools. The consequence is that more students now go to private school and pay school fees, and our young people are in less and less diverse classrooms. The representative proposal that is now on the table from the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, is nothing more than a last attempt to force through as many private schools as possible before the new private school law enters into force. It's not the individual private school that's the problem. The problem arises when the scale is so large that it threatens and depletes the budgets of the general public school. After eight years of free play on the right-hand side of the privatisation tool, some clear steps are needed to secure the single school. That is why I am pleased that the government has now started work on new law on private schools, where the purpose is, among other things. is to remove the right to obtain the approval of private vocational schools and private profiling schools where these directly overlap with the offer made by the public. For it should not be in Norway that students have to pay NOK 30 000 to bet on sports. Rather, the Labour Party will cooperate with the municipalities and county councils to make good and diverse public offerings. In Western Europe, we have experienced the consequences of right-hand private school leave, and today the county has thousands of school places outside public school. Several district schools and schools in the districts outside the Bergen centre end up in an exposed position because new private schools are being set up in the centre and the existing private schools are being expanded. In 2017, the then knowledge minister from the Right approved a new vocational school in the Bergen Centre, despite the fact that the county politicians had expressed a negative opinion in their hearing response, and despite the fact that the councillor pointed out that an approval would have a negative impact on the public school structure. What is perhaps the most eye-catching thing about this example, is that the Solberg government sent the case to the hearing to ignore the recording that came from the county council. For this reason, it is also very positive that the government in the consultation note to the new law points to a greater emphasis being placed on the opinions of local populace. We in the Workers' Party show with this that we have confidence in elected representatives who are responsible for primary and secondary education. We have clearly said that we want to strengthen the common school, and tightening up the establishment of new private schools is an important part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2373	One of the primary schools hit by the government's freezing decision is the NRG-U, Norwegian Realfachsgymnas Jugendskole. NRG-U has a school in Sandvika today. It offers depression in mathematics, science and technology and has been in operation since 2017. This school has had nearly 300 applicants for 60 places of study each year, and long before the deadline for applying for 2022, a number of students have applied for the new NRG-U offers now sought to establish. National tests show that the eighth NRG-U classifications in 2021 were at the peak in Norway in theoretical subjects for five consecutive years. There is no doubt that the health school reflects a need and desire from both students and businesses. Today we have heard from representatives from both the Swedish Labour Party and the Central Party that the primary schools are taking resources from the public school and weakening the municipal school offer. I then wonder if my co-representatives have been sufficiently involved in the matter that is now under consideration. In this matter, the rapporteurs in the local authorities Asker and Bærum are indebted to their citizens, who are missing out on a good school offer, which complements and does not at all undermine the good municipal school offer for which the rapporteurs are responsible. For this matter, it's about how a red-green ideological fight against the freshies goes out on the kids. The council stressed that she has nothing against the contents of the school, but that she is paralysed by who is the owner of the schools. I've met Berit Nissen-Lie from Asker, who has a son who had been happy to get into the NRG-U. Now he's completely broken because he can't fit. This is bad for a 12-year-old who has done nothing wrong but be interested in real science and want to enter a school with a slightly different profile than the public school has. Nissen-Lie and another parent, Mats Andreassen, had invited local staging representatives to a meeting to get an explanation of what we believe their children are still not allowed to go to NRG-U, because the school's application to start up is not dealt with under the applicable law. Unfortunately, the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre have shone with their absence. I would therefore like to pass on from the parents that the representatives still have the opportunity to vote to revoke the freezing decision, so that the 12 and 13-year-olds can go to the school they had enjoyed. The representative of the Central Party and the representative of the Labour Party, Jacobsen, spoke in the debate to listen more to the local elected representatives. If the representatives think so, I would urge the representatives to listen to the express request by the local rapporteurs to repeal the freezing decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2382	When we went to the elections, we were crystal clear about strengthening the public common school rather than creating new and more private schools. With a good public general school and a strong public education system, we can reduce differences. Meeting in classrooms across cultures, sex, background and interests has a self-esteem, as well as giving individual opportunities. It helps to build barriers by building trust. The vast majority of children in Norway attend general public schools, but there has been a marked increase in private schools, especially in recent years, on the Right Guard. Private schools divide children by religion, field of interest, culture and society. That's the exact opposite of the primary school. We have less confidence in those we don't know or are safe from, and more private schools will be involved in building up the community we're all so proud of here in Norway. Rather, the working party will develop the common school, so that all children and young people will have the opportunity to receive good education and follow-up. And as the Council of State said, there's nothing wrong with expanding some profiles and bets within the public school, whether it's about physical activity, real science, practical bets or others. We're going to bet on this. If you want to be really good at real science, there's room for that in public school. Because there's a difference between public school and private schools. Private schools are for the few, the public school for everyone. Today it's going to be $6 billion. kr per year over the state budget to finance private schools. Since the right-hand government took over, the appropriations have increased by a total of 3.2 billion. kr. This is money we could use to strengthen the public school. Now it goes to the few. Most children attend public schools, but there has been a marked increase — in the largest cities, about every tenth of high school students attend private schools. It's worrying. It's part of this and it's draining the public school for resources. In the government platform, we were crystal clear about removing the qualification bases for higher education in professional education programmes and specific profiles. We do not pursue the privatisation policy of the right-wing government. No, the freezing decision is a natural consequence of a new government, a new course and a new policy – for a stronger common school for all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2395	The representatives Raja and Vamraak refer to the case in Asker and that the Workers' Party in this case does not listen. Yes, we are listening, and I have listened to the four meetings I have attended in Asker. A velodrom is built, but the operation and funding required that a boarding school be approved – a free school that was intended to be part of the operating costs. When the Workers' Party-Centre-Registration took over power in the autumn, all the establishment of health schools on a general basis was suspended until the new law was in place, because the Labour Party's policy is to strengthen the common school rather than privatisation. Well, that's what this is all about. That the funding of the eulogy requires the establishment of a free school was discussed in all the meetings I attended, and in all the meetings I was clear that this matter concerns two quite different issues, which have to be distinguished. The first case is velodrom, the second is whether a boarding school should be approved despite a freezing decision. We either have to discuss school or velodrom. Nor, as politicians, can we agree to a case by giving a wanted decision in another case, especially when there are economic reasons involved. Locally in Asker, the Workers' Party voted against the velodrom because the financial risk at the municipal level was considered to be too great. In the case of health schools, the Workers' Party and the Government introduced a freezing decision, because the Workers' Party's focus is to ensure good public schools for everyone, and because we believe that the Health School is draining the public school for both teacher resources and money, something Waagen's contribution so clearly underlined. I've been listening for four meetings in Asker. At the same time, I was surprised that the freshly lit school that wanted to establish itself, even was never an active party in the matter. They were requested by the undersigned, but they did not. And I had a lot of questions, including: how to recruit real-time teachers, in order to ensure that they are not taken from public secondary schools in Asker, where the students would then lose their teacher. It would weaken the primary school and not be the best solution for the vast majority of students in Asker. I'll believe most of the parents in Asker school agree with me on that. I even have twins who start high school in Asker in August, and with this decision I am sure that they will receive good training, even in real science.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2406	I take the floor again because I feel the council opposes itself after the lines. The Council of State said that her ambition is that the public should offer it to many of the colleges today, but when we ask what kind of action she wants to take to make the public offer of these things, she shifts responsibility to the municipalities and mentions nothing she wants to do herself to give the public a more diverse offer. I feel that the government and the Council of State are preventing those who are actually doing something to establish an offer where we lack a good offer in Norway, and where alternative pedagogics and alternative learning are given, while the Council of State is not doing anything itself, but pushing the responsibility down. Then the answer to, for example, the 300 applicants for the NRG-U each year are not receiving this offer from the public, but they lose the new offer that the NRG-U wants to make. That's too bad. The representative Jakobsen from the Workers' Party said – if I don't remember correctly – that it is unacceptable that students have to pay NOK 30 000 a year to go on a sports line, but it must be much better than the option if you don't get these schools, namely that the students may have to pay up to NOK 200,000 to go on such lines in clean private schools, instead of in health schools where the public is involved in subsidising the payment, which means that ordinary Nordics can also go on in health schools with different types of lines than the public offer. It has been mentioned several times by the representatives from the left-hand side today that doing what the government is doing strengthens the common school. What I see is not a strengthening of the common school, but a weakening of the boarding schools and the alternative offer we have in Norway. Leading this line will help to increase differences and reduce the diversity of teaching provision in Norway, not improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2415	I have to say, as I said in my previous post: It is a bit encouraging to hear a number of representatives going up here and making a whole article about fresh schools and whether they will be allowed to survive or not, and not relates to this case dealing with a freezing decision that is about single schools that are not now being treated. The Council of State says that the main reform of the Right was the privatisation of the school. That's by no means right. Governments are well aware that the main efforts of the Right were a historical teacher's vow, trade union renewal and early efforts. I don't think the challenge in Norwegian school today is due to that 5 pst. chooses anything other than a public school. It's a derailment. Governments also put their own ideology and structure ahead of quality and freedom of choice in school, more than how to create a well and optimally diverse school offer. The Council of State asked for a major debate on how to talk more about quality and content in school and less about who is going to run the school. At the same time, we stand here and discuss eight applications where they have quality, they have cooperation with businesses, they have cooperation with municipal actors. In Sør-Helgeland there are schools that have approval from both the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Everyone is ready, but here's one today and says that one is more concerned about who runs the school. It's interesting to note what local central party politicians say on social media as well as in various meetings. They're talking about sensible and pragmatic solutions. I would like to challenge the representative, Mr Swelle, who does not want to deal with these eight applications in one block, because that is what the Council of State has done. It would have been interested to hear what the Workers' Party and the Centre mean by the further treatment and pragmatic solutions. Is this freezing decision to be considered a block treatment, or does the centre party realize that the schools that matter and are important, perhaps will be allowed to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2426	It is, as the previous speaker said, not as many people talk about the matter in fact, i.e. the freezing decision. There has been a general debate in the area of institu tions, and at the same time, by the representative of Hartviksen, a velodrom in Asker. It has not been taken up by the undersigned, but I have spoken to him, among other things. local forces and the driver of the fresh coal NRG-U. So once again, I would like to encourage my fellow representatives from Akershus to listen to the local politicians, who therefore stress that such an offer is not a threat to the common school. And listening to local politicians, in my view, is not listening to their own party colleagues in the local government, but listening to what a majority in the municipality and their management have said. Here we talk for the NRG-Us about two new locations, one in Asker and one in Bærum. Then, happily, the Council of State has expressed a positive attitude to support a municipally-initiated high school with a real-time profile bet, and during the course of the day, the rapporteur in Asker has actually launched an initiative for a OPS project with a real-life profile school. I would then challenge the Council of State, which is also on the list of speakers now, whether such a OPS project is something that the Council of State will see positively, or whether she believes that there will also be a threat to the rest of the Joint School, since even a OPS school will necessarily have to recruit teachers in the same market as a private boarding school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2433	It had certainly created both newspaper headlines and many exciting discussions whose undersigned began to deal with applications to establish OPS schools above the table in the Storting. If it is the case that Asker Municipality wants to operate a real-time vocational school itself and cooperate with private actors to get it done, it is fully possible. The question here is whether it is the municipality of Asker that has intended to run the school itself, and it is Asker municipality completely free to do. It's not like the Council of State is focusing on who owns the premises that the municipal school runs in. But let me just add that we basically both run and own our schools even when it's a municipal offer. To the representative of Gulati, who asks about this with educational alternatives, and who repeatedly emphasizes how sad it is that we should no longer have it. That's not what the government platform says, that's not what this freezing decision is really about, nor is it what the government's ambitions for what a new private school law should look like. For the educational options, we will have to have in the future. There's no one here to stop it. There are two grounds for approval that the government has been concerned about saying that we no longer need to have in connection with the establishment of new private schools. One is profiling schools, which in practice means the ordinary school, but with a little more emphasis on individual elements, and the other is private vocational schools. Both options represent the same offer as the public school makes — in other words, it is not a supplement or a contribution to diversity in education provision; it is direct competition for the public school, where the majority of our kids go. Over two years of pandemic, and basically before that, we've discussed that we need more teachers, that we need more resources in school, that we need more to do in order for more of our children and young people to succeed. Then it's a paradox that we have at the same time an increase in the number of private schools and a decrease in the number of public schools. At some point, these two will intersect, and the majority of the schools we have will no longer be public. Then it is not possible to stand here on this pulpit and say: it must be okay with some private entries, because the majority of the schools are mostly public. Then we have come to the point that there are more private than public offers. It also makes it more difficult to stand in the Storting and discuss what to do to strengthen school provision, because it is no longer subject to political control in the same way as it is when it is in the public domain.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2442	As the Council of State was just up and said, it is absolutely necessary for us to stress that this is not about alternative pedagogics or alternative life views. We're at the 2007 private school agreement. It was just about the real alternatives to public school. What we're talking about now is not about real alternatives; it's about other types of schools, going on the outside of the public, going at the expense of the public. Alternative pedagogics and alternative life views exist as an authorisation basis. There was peace around private schools until the Right was involved and muddled to the water in 2015, when they added these new forms of approval. It was a pure privatisation reform that opened up to so-called profile schools. I'll once again stress that there's nothing wrong with being able to do math or physical activity in public school as well. If we do that, it's for all the children, instead of the few. It is necessary to stress that there has been a marked increase. As the Council of State also underlined, these lines will one day intersect. One day we stand without the public, strong school if we continue this development. I would like to remind you that in the largest cities go approx. every 10 high school students in private school. It's part of undermining public school. So the Right would like to think that it's problematic, and that we have a principle attitude towards profile schools, but something else would be quite strange. We would then not be doing fair business, which is also about giving clear feedback. I believe that this matter underlines the political differences that exist in this Chamber. It emphasises that we should make sure that public schools are strengthened. The right again shows that there are private schools they want to take the fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2454	I must have a little comment on the claim that there was peace around this school battle until the previous government made a decision. I've been in school debates about as long as the gray beard is waiting for me. There has been no peace around that school battle at least. At least that's for sure. I have a question to the Council of State about something that I think might be unintentional in this situation of freezing. There are those who are applying for an extended number of places. We have two school ships in Norway, which have never been about public transport but which run very good schools. It is a very important maritime education that Norway continues to be part of the environment and deliver good students leaving those schools. Now they're in a situation where they just don't know if they're getting an increase in the number of school places, because now there's a freezing situation. I hope it's unintentional, and that the Council of State can do something about it. In Stavanger, it is the schoolship Gann who has applied for more schools, because there is a great demand for it. In Kristiansand it is what is now called MS “Lofoten” and that was formerly called MS “Sea Course”, which stopped the school for a short time because they had to catch a new ship. They have got a new ship and applied for 45 places to start with. They now see that there is an application for much more, and extension to 60 places will form the basis for that school to go around. They have a wonderful cooperation with the public, that is to say the county, and are now waiting for an answer, but they are not getting an answer to it. So I wonder if the Council of State can say something about whether they can get their application processed, so that they can plan from what they had before, 60 places, which they also want to have in the future in order to have a proper operation of 60 places, and whether they have to wait until this freezer is cancelled before they receive an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2465	The representative, Mr Vamraak, may not have spoken to the rapporteur, Mr Conradi, in Asker, because he might have known that there were two meetings between the representatives of the Labour Party and the Central Party and the rapporteur, Mr Conradi, on 14 February and 18 February. The latter meeting was also with the municipal director. The rapporteur, Mr Conradi, is not from the undersigned's party, so we are talking to politicians from other parties, and we are very concerned about local matters for Askers. In all these four meetings I had – so I had two with the sport and two with the rapporteur – I mentioned that it is absolutely necessary for the undersigned to talk to the school. I have to talk to the school to ask my questions. And in all four meetings, I was promised that they would bring that message to the school. As for the meeting on Tuesday, and that we didn't meet outside, if that's what the representative is thinking about, it's about getting a request on that day before, at 0 p.m. 09.48. At 2:30 p.m., we were busy with other assignments. The rapporteur was also informed of this, so I can't believe that we didn't show up. However, we had two meetings with the rapporteur and two meetings with the sport called ‘Freedom School — The Consequences of School Decisions’. It did not have ‘On sport’. I thought we came to discuss the consequences of the college decisions. I stress that this must be enough. If you do not get in touch with the school, I cannot assess the individual case as a local representative either. But they got at least four possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2478	The representative, Tore Vamraak, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2483	I notice that the representative of Male Hartviksen has had contact with local politicians – I have never disputed that – but she says that she has not had contact with the school that this case concerns. I am surprised that the representative himself did not want to contact the school to get the necessary clarifications for her to vote for or against this important decision for this school. When the Council of State and her party trap say that here are lines that will intersect, that the number of private schools will be greater than the number of public schools, it's now less than 5 pst. by the students attending the fresh-soles – 95 pst. goes to public school. So it's amazing that you think that these lines will intersect with the case we're dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2490	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2507	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to seven lines with replies from members of the government, and those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2514	It's the sea that created Norway. It is the sea that has given the land our lives. But the sea has at all times also taken life. Every small branch along our coast has stories about life lost at sea, stories about mothers who have lost their sons, women who have lost their spouse and children who have lost a father too young – because the sea, with all its wealth and resources, is also a dangerous workplace. Fortunately, the fishing profession has also become safer. Fortunately, loss and death at sea are no longer something we just have to live with. It has the fishermen and other professionals at sea the main part of the era for. They have worked long-term and systematically to bring the big community with them on tougher demands, better boats and new technologies to make the working life at sea safer. Not least, the Norwegian Fisheries Team has been a strong driver. In 2009 – 13 years ago – the Norwegian National Board of Fisheries adopted a zero vision for damage and accidents at work among fishermen. That decision in 2009 was a milestone, but it was not an end point. Between 2009 and 2018, on average, six professional fishermen died every year. In 2021, last year, four fishermen died. So far this year, two people have died. We are not in the target – the fishing profession is still Norway’s most dangerous profession. For this reason, there is a new, absolutely necessary milestone today, when a total accumulation after all determines a zero vision not only for the fishermen, but for all the industries at sea. As a society, we no longer accept that people who have their profession at sea will die of it – as little as we accept and only have to live with people dying in road traffic and onshore professional life. I would like to praise, as the case-in-law, the right-wing representatives of the Business Committee, Olve Grotle, Linda Hofstad Helleland and Lene Westgaard-Halle, for having seen the cause of a zero vision at sea on the agenda of the Stortinge. And I would like to thank a Joint Nutrition Committee and the Council of State for meeting the initiative in an open and constructive way, which enables us today to gather on a joint proposal from all parties on the Stortinget, with the following words: ‘The size favours a zero vision of the marine industries and asks the government to come back to the Storing in its own way, as the Council of State has done well in its answer.’ I am pleased that we can today gather about this, and I look forward to a good debate in which we also get the right government to do well for how he and the government will follow up the decision Stortinget will now do. The sea is still going to give life to Norway – but the time when we, as a society, accept that the sea will also kill those who have their profession there, is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2534	The sea is important for Norway. Our great resources in the sea have always given the North both food and wealth. Norway is a maritime nation, and we have many of us working with and on boats and ships and in ports around the country. They make a unique and necessary effort for the country and our economy, but we recognise that there are professions that have more deaths than comparable occupations on land. Coast Norway has lived off and off the sea for generations, but as I said, the sea has also been the root of a lot of concern. You can read in the book about Anna at Vinje from Øksnes, which stood and fed across the sea with anxiety and unrest. The big concern was that the man and the sons would come home completely. I am glad that having their work at sea is getting safer and safer today. But even though there have been many improvements and focus on maritime safety, we have another piece. Too often we read about tragic accidents, about premature life, about families and people who lose a very loved one. That's why we have to do what we can to reduce the number of deaths to zero. I am pleased that a joint committee and a whole political Norway are behind the vision that no workers and fishermen will die at sea in the future. The Council of State has already started work on providing a professional basis for what a zero vision at sea can mean, and I am happy to see that this is a matter of priority both to the Council of State and to the Government. We want a zero vision for the dead at sea. The Workers' Party and Centre Party governments are well in the process of finding instruments that can reduce the number of dead at sea, in line with the zero vision of lost lives in traffic. I look forward to further working on this matter in the years to come. It is a pleasure that we can stand here today and unite politically in such an important matter as this one, where the organisations associated with the sea, such as the Fishlayer, the rescue skates and others, stand behind us. And I'm glad we have a government council that's on the prom.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2549	The sea gives, and the sea takes. Anyone who has grown up by the coast and sea knows that. Fortunately, the number of deaths and injuries in fishing industries has decreased as a result of a stronger focus on safety. However, despite the considerable effort made by fishermen and industry themselves to prevent accidents and deaths, five–six fishermen are still missing on average every year. That makes the fishing profession the most dangerous thing we have. This is the background that Right in Winter took the initiative to set up a zero vision, as we have in traffic. We state that our society should no longer accept all these professional deaths, and we set out a vision that it will not kill a single fish in the future. Such a zero vision requires the long-term, systematic and targeted work of all actors that affect the safety of the sea, and will permeate everything we do in developing, modernising and shaping our fishing industries over the next decade. The initiative was well received in the fishing environment and has been supported by the Fiskerlag and other key actors. The Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, Mr Schjörn, has also given a positive response to the idea of a zero vision. He has also stated that there is already a work going on to create a zero vision in the fisheries. He will also consider a zero vision for the whole industry at sea. The council also informed him that he would come back to Stortinget with a closer anchoring of the zero vision. Right is pleased with the Council's feedback on the matter, and we also support the fact that a zero vision should be assessed for other industries at sea. Furthermore, it is with great pleasure that we have experienced that the whole business committee, both the position and the opposition, has had good cooperation and managed to gather a joint proposal for a decision on the matter. I would also like to pay tribute to those who have done a good job of finding out the wording of the joint proposal, which has therefore gathered us together. It has been good to see that the Christian People's Party and the Patient's Focus have reported that they also want to be part of the joint proposal. With this all the parties on the Stortinget will be included in the proposal. It is a strong message to our national Parliament now being given. A consensus decision in Stortinget will increase our chances of reducing deaths and serious accidents, and that no one working at sea will die in the future. It eats up all our fishermen and everyone else who's been working at sea. As a result of the presentation of a joint proposal, I would ask that the author of the proposal for a decision be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2566	Do I expect the representative to address the joint proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2571	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2576	The representative Olve Grotle has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2581	Everyone in a coastal nation like Norway is aware that the sea can provide food and wealth, but that it also takes. Some experience this more brutally than others, missing their own kids, spouses or colleagues in marine casualties. Fortunately, the number of people who die at sea has fallen, but each death is one too much. And the risk of working in the fishing industry is greater than the risk in almost all other professions here to land. The matters currently dealt with by the Business Committee show a great and important cross-political commitment to preventing such deaths. When both the proposers, the government council and the government party want a zero vision, it's because we both hope and believe that such a strong ambition will add the sufficient amounts of Møller's Tran to this work. The more happy it is that all the parties on Stortinget have merged on a common proposal in this matter, based on the fact that we want the most force behind the job to be done. So I would like to thank the proposers for this specific case for a good initiative, the good cooperation committee and the case leader for good work. It's great that the other parties are also involved in this joint proposal. Not least, I would like to thank the Council of State for his input into this – both his own initiative on a zero vision for the fishing industry, and that he goes further and will have distributed a zero vision for all the industry at sea, as now the whole Biggest stands behind. The rescue company, the Norwegian Fisheries team and several others support the creation of a zero vision. And then we'll see what the Maritime Directorate will come up with, when they've already got the government marching around to create a professional basis for such a vision. I have good expectations that the Business Committee can contribute to a good anchoring of this zero vision when matters finally arrive in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2594	The sea is a dangerous workplace. We know that who's had the sea as a workplace, and we've grown up along the coast. We're no longer going back another six days, until Friday, April 1st. Eight. Then there was a fishing boat in a fire 35 nautical miles outside of Røst. There were 22 fishermen on board, 17 had to go in the fleet, 5 were left to take care of the boat. The weather was such that the rescue helicopters, which are the first to arrive in such cases, had to turn around. This is just one example of the fact that the potential for major accidents is still present today. There has been a great deal of good in the fishing industry, in the fishing fleet and in society else in reducing the number of accidents and death rates at sea, which have been too high for many years. But we're not done with that job. Now when we agree on a zero vision at sea, we also have to be careful not to add the list so high that you can easily walk below. We need an action plan with good measures that are effective. Nor should we ignore the fact that the overall development on the coast can be part of the big picture. We know that there will be fewer and fewer vessels, fewer and fewer fishing receptions, there will be longer and longer sailing routes for the individual. If this continues, there will be fewer "camera boats" out in the field that can help. In addition, we know that the situation for individual fishes is also important. That is why, in the alternative government budget of Red, we have proposed increased appropriations for good welfare measures for fishermen in fishing vessels, so that working life and working days can become easier for businessmen. At the same time, we will strengthen the safety training of fishermen. It is very important that we have a good and decentralised security training around the country. I am thinking in particular of the safety centres in Bodø and Gravdal, which are involved in safety training for fishermen, but which have to be in battles every year in order to be allowed to maintain their operations. All in all, this is a good thing. Thanks to the proposers, Mr Grotle and the other Right-wing representatives, for a good initiative. We will follow closely what the action plan contains when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2609	I am pleased to see that an overall committee has come to the conclusion that a zero vision is to be established for the industries at sea. In Norway, we consider some things to be self-evident; that working conditions should be fair, and that workers should be safe at work. We've come a long way, but we're not on target. One industry in particular stands out as more dangerous than what we can accept. There is still too much risk of having a working day at sea, and the risk is greatest in the fishing industry. We have boats and technology, weather forecasting and communication, safety equipment and rescue services that just a generation ago would be unimaginable, but we're not in target. How are we going to take the next step? What should be our ambition? The concept of zero vision is known from traffic. Although serious accidents and road deaths are still occurring, the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic has fallen in a way that seemed unmistakable a few years ago. This is due to several things, not least better roads and better cars, but it is also about systematic and long-term work on training, attitudes and control measures – with zero vision at the bottom. I have already asked the Maritime Directorate to start work on developing the professional basis for a zero vision in the fishing fleet. I have also asked the Directorate to assess whether a zero vision should also cover other commercial vessels. The Directorate shall provide a technical basis for further work on the zero vision, including the evaluation of the measures in question, to be outlined and organised. In their work, they shall look at the zero vision work of the State Road Administration and cooperate with the industries and other relevant departments, such as the State Road Administration, the Coastal Agency and the Fisheries Directorate. I am concerned that the work on zero vision is firmly professionally anchored, because in that way we can achieve results. The inter-political anchoring here in the United Kingdom today will also have a major impact on further work. Nothing is so fundamental in working life as for workers to come home from work alive. The work on this, as I see it, is not suitable for party political competition. I have therefore held the cards quite close to my chest when I started this work. There is respect for the way the party groups in Stortinget have cooperated on this matter. In the further work, I want to develop a good knowledge base to assess which measures are most effective, and I will, of course, come back to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2636	Competence and knowing what you're doing are one of the most important aspects of security work. Then I would like to raise a question from the cod tongue cutter Halvar Johan from Myre. He is eleven years old and said to the Fisheries Bulletin last week that he should have had some words with the Minister for Fisheries because the Minister for Fisheries should make sure that it is not just those with the best characters who are allowed to take fishing training. That's the question: Do you want to take care of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2641	When it comes to the question of admission rules for high school, I think I'm moving – to say it very carefully – significantly beyond my responsibilities. I am responsible for facilitating the recruitment of the fishing profession within the action room that I myself have. That's what I've been trying to do as much as I can through these five to six months since the new government joined. After a few years without the allocation of recruitment allowances, we have now set a preliminary new record for the last few years. I also arranged for half of the recruitment quotas that we allocated to women; it is also part of ensuring recruitment from the entire workforce. When it comes to admission rules for high school, I almost think I have to be humble enough to say that it's on the table of another councillor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2650	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2669	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2676	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on this matter. It is a proposal from the representatives of Ingrid Fisaa, Christian Torset and Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes. It is about tightening up the practice of procurement legislation in respect of industrial compliance with international law. It became clear in the debate that the Committee was divided into this view, and we have a minority proposal from the SV, the Greens and the Reds. The recommendation of the majority of the Committee is that the proposal should not be adopted. I would like to add some comments to this from us in Red. We live in times and days where international law is on everyone's lips. We know that international law is universal, and I think now is the time to uphold international law for all peoples. What this matter is about is whether we should include bids here that operate their business in occupied areas of East Jerusalem and the West Bank. The company that is behind this whole proposal, Alstom, is from 2020 on the list of companies operating in settlements in these occupied areas. We who want the practice to be tightened up are not alone. A strong LO, Trade Union, Norwegian Railway Federation, those who are going to work on this, is on the Committee's side here and has advised us not to deal with these companies. KLP, the large pension fund, concluded last year that there was an unacceptable risk of these companies contributing to human rights violations and to war and conflict situations through connection with Israeli settlement on the occupied West Bank. There are some of the reactions that have come to what is being treated today. Red will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2689	The representative Geir Jørgensen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2694	The presence of companies in conflict zones requires a very conscious relationship with corporate responsibility. That is also why DFØ already has good guidance on human rights in public acquisitions. Guidance has already been provided on how Norwegian procurement activities can make demands for the promotion of fundamental human rights. And for the acquisitions where contracting entities purchase products where human rights are generally violated, i.e. the high-risk products, detailed guidance on how a contracting authority should proceed here as well. That is why I am somewhat surprised at the small overall approach of the proposers in the matter. They are targeting, picking out a single actor, and not all actors in the current market or in the current list – collectively and equivocally. Alstom, whom the proposers have chosen for some reason, is one of the world's largest manufacturers of train equipment. It is the leading supplier in Norway and the Nordic region, and they have 2,200 employees in the Nordic region who will be directly affected by the proposal. It may also be useful to note that a number of other major European rail transport suppliers, who also supply Norway, are involved in the development of traction systems in Israel, which is what this case concerns. If we're going to put ourselves on the line that the proposers here add up to, we should return the new Oslo tricks. We should return the new flights. The same applies to the 150 Flirt trains running on rails now all over Norway, and the Urban Railway in Bergen. And we should stop all the expansion of the new ERTMS signalling system, which is also used throughout Europe. The consequence of the proposal and its promises is that it can pave the way for large Chinese players in signalling and infrastructure development in Norway. It is also interesting that the list used by the proposers here contains a number of companies that do not engage in rail transport, but still deliver to Norway – which does exactly the same as Alstom. Just because it's a little bit interesting, I can mention these companies. It is Motorola, Shipadviser, Airbnb, Expedia, those who deliver Cheerios, Häagen-Dazs, Yoplait, TINE Meierierieren and the Friday taco from Old El Paso. So why don't SV and Red address these companies? Acquisition legislation already facilitates the provision of basic human rights to public undertakings through the requirements of the law and appropriate procedures, and there is already good guidance for this at the DFØ.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2707	SV believes it is urgent to streamline the practice of the law, so that companies involved in international law violations and human rights are removed from the state's supplier list. The case that illustrates and updates this is that a billion-dollar contract has now been concluded with Alstom. Norwegian train AS is to purchase 30 local trains from Alstom with an option to purchase an additional 170 trains. Thus, Norwegian train AS has signed a billion-dollar contract with Alstom, despite the fact that the company is one of 112 companies that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights put on a list of companies active in occupied Palestinian territory in February 2020. Both Storebrand and KLP have closed Alstom out of their investment portfolios, precisely because the company contributes to strengthening illegal settlements in the occupied area. In the letter from the Minister of Industry to the Committee, the Minister of Industry does not, in my opinion, respond to the main challenge of missing guidance when it comes to the follow-up of international law by industry in conflict areas. The Council of State states that the procurement law cannot be ‘used as a single tool to ensure compliance with fundamental human rights or international law as such’, but this appears to be an attempt to misinterpret the law on public acquisitions. It's worrying. The Minister emphasises routines to respect human rights without clarifying that international humanitarian law is part of these procedures, i.e. that international humanitarian law is part of the human rights norms in force in Norwegian procurement legislation. Existing counsellors do not deal with international humanitarian law or conflict areas, and the Council of State says nothing about what is possible to impose when it comes to promoting respect for international law in conflict areas in bidding processes for suppliers that are not directly related to delivery. When a whole state company chooses to enter into a billion-dollar contract with a supplier where it has even detected problematic pre-existing issues related to violations of international law, the regulation does not function properly. Policies and practices are inconsistency here. I wonder if the government doesn't see it as a problem that we don't have a procurement code that takes into account international law and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2718	The market for the provision of train sets and rail infrastructure, which is a high-tech product with significant development costs, is dominated by large global companies active worldwide, including in the area and country of conflict. Alstom, who is to deliver 30 local trains ordered by Norwegian trains, is one of these companies. They have, through their subsidiary, been one of the developers of the railway project in Jerusalem who have contributed to strengthening Israeli settlements in occupied areas, like, among others. the Basque company CAF, which these days delivers new jerseys to the Municipality of Oslo. Alstom is in addition one of the 112 companies designated by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in 2020 on a list of companies active in the occupied Palestinian territory. Both KLP and Storebrand have excluded Alstom from their investment portfolios. Let there be no doubt: the left does not want companies active in the occupied territory to provide Norwegian local trains. Public service providers shall have a procurement practice which takes care of basic human rights. We expect both public and private Norwegian companies to follow the DFØ's guidance for high-risk products. At the same time, this example is far from unique, on which Westgaard-Halle was represented. There are far more companies than Alstom that are either listed or otherwise involved in human rights violations or violations of international law, which have contracts with Norwegian government powers and Norwegian companies. The left believes that we need to streamline the practice of legislation, so that companies involved in violations of international law and human rights are removed from the supplier lists of the state. We also support a thorough analysis of whether the procurement rules are well enough if they are complied with. We therefore support the intention of proposal No. 1, from SV, Red and MDG, but at the same time acknowledges that creating a new regulatory framework is a demanding task, which it is not realistic to have in place for the revised national budget in May, as the proposers require. Changes in legislation in this area must be considered. They must both grade and differentiate the participation of companies in different forms of human rights violations, while at the same time being able to withstand time and to treat differently different actors who are involved in various forms of international law violations. We also need to know what the consequences of changes will have for the purchase of goods and services, for example in an area like this, where the market is totally dominated by global companies with activities all over the world. This is new work that will take more than the few weeks left until the government has completed work on RNB. The left will therefore vote against proposal No. 1, not because we are opposed to the intention of the proposal, but because we think it should also be put into practice a thorough analysis of the consequences of such a change in the procurement legislation and expect the government to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2735	The Norwegian Purchases Code sets the framework for public procurement. The rules shall promote efficient public procurement, with the best possible coverage and quality at the lowest possible price. Acquisition law obliges contracting authorities to have appropriate procedures in place to promote respect for fundamental human rights. The contracting entity has a degree of flexibility in the preparation of such procedures, but it follows from the guidance of the DFØ that, for example: may be the use of ethical contractual conditions or ethical guidelines, with associated follow-up systems throughout the contract period, so that any breaches can be detected and followed up. However, it is important to clarify that the legal requirement to have appropriate procedures concerns fundamental human rights and not international law as such. The representatives behind the proposal have proposed to tighten up the practice of procurement legislation in respect of industrial compliance with international law and to ask the government to come back in connection with RNB in a few weeks. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee has decided that the proposals should not be adopted. I would like to stress the importance of contracting authorities acting with a high degree of integrity, and that contracting authorities comply with the statutory obligation they have to have a procurement practice which respects fundamental human rights where there is a risk of breach of such rights. The Directorate for Administration and Financial Management, DFØ, has good guidance on its website on human rights in public procurement. It may get better, but it also feels good. Guidance has been provided on how Norwegian public enterprises can make demands in the procurement process to promote respect for fundamental human rights. Furthermore, for so-called high-risk products, i.e. where the risk of breaches of human rights is particularly high, additional detailed guidance and examples of how a contracting authority operates have been provided. I would also like to take the opportunity to refer to the letter from the Minister for Transport, which contains an assessment of the part of the proposed representative relating to the exercise of the option in the contract concluded between Norwegian train AS and Alsom on the purchase of additional trainsets. It follows from the Minister of Transport's letter that the Stortinget will decide whether or not to use the option in the contract. The Minister for Transport has further pointed out the implications of the Storting decision on this. Acquisition law requires contracting authorities to have appropriate procedures in place to promote respect for fundamental human rights in the acquisitions where there is a risk of breach of such rights. Furthermore, the State that has an expectation that state-owned companies will follow internationally recognised guidelines, principles and conventions, such as: OECD Guidelines and UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. Finally, I would like to stress that even though we support the majority of the committee, this is the input I want to take into account further in the work on public acquisitions. And maybe we can get back to that in our line exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2754	There's no one drawn to line, so there'll be no line exchange this time. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2761	What this is all about is that we where Norway and the public are the owner, we should not deal with companies that participate in Israel's occupation economy. It's not time to take things easy on international law now. To the representative Westgaard-Halle, who asked the question: What about all the other companies that profit from the occupation economy? Well, it illustrates very well the extent of the injustice against the Palestinian people, that we have such companies that are allowed to operate and profit in cooperation with the occupying party. There were otherwise good signals from the Minister of Industry here about the further job, but I must say that it is disappointing that the majority of the Storting does not support such a simple and clear delineation of who we are going to deal with now in these days, where international law is something that we all care about, and which lies at the forefront of everyone's lips.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2770	Since I did not get an opportunity in a reply change, I would like to add two comments. One is that I feel that the committee is quite in agreement that this is a topic that is important to discuss. I would also like to thank you for many good contributions on the occasion of the case. We're working on the procurement code, and I've already signaled that we're looking at innovation in public acquisitions. We have warned that we are going to increase environmental requirements and expectations, not least in the climate and nature field, in public acquisitions. I also think it is natural that we should consider the intention of this proposal, which is also about emphasising international law in addition to fundamental human rights. So the committee can be sure that this is input we're taking into account, but it's important that we do it in a proper, thorough and proper way. The second comment is also about the state as owner. We're a big owner, of 70 companies in whole or in part. We are now working on a ownership message that hopefully comes to Stortinget in a few months, and there we have also announced that we will look at the expectations of our companies. It is also about climate and the environment, but it is also about respect for human rights, ethical trade, it can be about procurement, HMS, fundamental labour rights and human rights, of course also with regard to international law. So also in the process of ownership, we want to take these recordings into account, and it's not certain that we think so differently when everything comes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-04-07.ana.ud36e2780	Fine, then the council took a line on itself. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Thus today's map is fully debated. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
