ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e36	Honourable co-representatives! On June 6th, 2021, former PD Rolf Hellem from Narvik, 97 years old, died. Hellem represented the Workers' Party and Nordland for a total of 18 years and was elected as a permanent representative from 1965 to 1981. Most of the years he was on the Industry Committee. The railway worker from Narvik became one of the social builders of the Workers' Party. The intermediate road to Sweden via Bjørnfjell is linked to Hellem’s efforts. However, he will be best remembered nationally as one of the architects in the design of Norwegian oil policy. Hellem's time in the Industry Committee coincided with the discovery of petroleum resources on Norwegian base. He took an early interest in the possibilities suggested. When the first driving track was a fact, he was among the most well-read on the subject, and in 1971 he became the case rapporteur for the first oil report. To his presentation from the pulpit of Great Britain, he had written down what he referred to as the Ten Oil Commandments. The keywords were national governance and control, active state, ring-effects for Norwegian industry and business and nature and environment considerations. These leaders were not obvious in their day – they were about active political choices. At the same time, they have laid their groundwork until today. Norway owes Rolf Hellem a big thank you. He and the other strategists understood their time and ability to look forward. Many countries that discover valuable natural resources incur conflicts, extreme bias and economic problems. With the Norwegian oil policy, wealth has instead contributed to the construction of society and benefited the entire people. We bring peace to Rolf Hellem's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e59	The representative, Sivert Bjørnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e64	On behalf of Morten Stordalen, Silje Hämdal, Hans Andreas Limi, Terje Halleland, Terje Hansen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on a level playing field for the service trade industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e69	The representative, Mr Hansen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e74	On behalf of the Progress Party representative Sivert Bjørnstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to improve the exploitation of snow crab resources. On behalf of the Progress Party representatives Bård Hoksrud, Terje Halleland, Tor André Johnsen, Sivert Bjørnstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a new spring for the Norwegian mineral industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e81	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e99	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after the intervention of a member of the government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e106	I want to start this debate by thanking the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality for what I perceive was a sound and good gender equality policy statement. Norway is at the top of statistics on gender equality. I think that's a pleasure. But as the Council of State correctly pointed out, this statistics must not be used as a resting-room. We are still facing major gender equality challenges in Norway. For the Left, it is absolutely essential that all people have the opportunity to live a free life without being confronted with condemnation and without encountering invisible or legal barriers to free life. It's not like that today. Still, mothers have to fight to take out breast-free, which they are entitled to under the law. Still, fathers have to fight to keep the feather quota. Women must work involuntarily part-time. They're topping the suicide statistics. Girls are exposed to onlineness. Guys fall from school. E.g., etc. Persistence continues to be blinded by violence. Rainbow flags are stolen, and we have had examples of them burning in protest. Persons investigated for sex sinkongruens must answer questions such as ‘Do you think of one of your parents while you masturbate?’ – asked by a professional staff at the Riksen. And on the same day that homosexuals receive an official complaint from the Prime Minister that they have been prosecuted for the practice of sexual orientation, the health center for sex and sexuality in Oslo is ordered to stop their treatment of transhumance. We should have come further than this in 2022. As the Minister for Gender Equality said in his statement, I am also pleased that we have a debate like this in the Chamber every year, and I am glad that the Council of State chose to continue with it when she took over. It gives us in Stortinget an opportunity to actually see the gender equality challenges in context. There is no secret that gender equality challenges exist in a variety of areas, not just the one government council. For Stortinget then to come together and put clear expectations across the different responsibilities of state councils, I believe is a great good. I also hope that we will have this debate several times in the future. Then I would like to comment that I do not think this statement was so very different from the statement that came last year. In my head, it's a good thing, because it shows that, after all, we agree on the big lines and the big challenges. It also means that the Council of State may have a expectation that if she goes to the Grand Council, she can also find a broad majority that gives legitimacy to many of the solutions she will be able to present in the field of equality. It is gratifying that a number of measures notified by the Council of State are actions undertaken by the previous government, whether it is a matter of obligation to act and explain, the continuation of the action plan against negative social control and honour-related violence, or women's health, which was also a sample of the previous government put down. Once again, it shows that the big lines and the big challenges are, after all, we all agree on. At the beginning of the last growing-up period, I conducted an interview about hate crime. It came on the basis of a series of media essays that told of several serious cases of this. Although much has happened since then, among other things. that we have acquired a national centre of excellence, this is a concrete thing I hope the Minister for Gender Equality will answer how she should proceed today, and that she will not do as she last does and shift responsibility to another Council of State. I look forward to the work that the Minister for Gender Equality will be presenting here to the Stortinget, because I think we have a lot of good, wide-ranging debates on gender equality challenges and to creating a broad majority for the solutions that benefit us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e127	I want to start by thanking the Minister for a thorough and good statement two days ago. I would also like to start by reflecting a little bit about the equality struggles that have taken place before us, which actually makes it possible for us no longer to have to discuss whether women at all should be allowed to have a place in this room. The discussion is about how we can become more equal in society, how more women can choose occupations in man-dominated fields and vice versa, and how people with disabilities, people with different orientations, people with a minority background – everyone – should have opportunities to live good and free lives. In order for us all to live free lives, we need an equal society with great potential for everyone, no matter who you are, or who you love. The fact that we have this distribution here every year, and the debate afterwards, makes it possible for us to really look at ourselves a little bit in the cards, stop and both think and debate about: What is the status of equality and the lack of society today? The status is that we have a long way to go. We don't have an equal society in Norway today, even though we're topping the list internationally, because we don't yet have an equal working life. Women still have fewer teeth than men, fewer women are top leaders, and women work more part-time and have more inappropriate working hours. It's status today. We can't say content until we get a better gender balance, before we secure equal pay for equal work and take action against power in close relationships, sexual harassment and negative social control. For the peace struggle, it's up to us to take, and we have a long way to go. Unfortunately, equality has been silent for too long, and unfortunately, in many cases, it has gone backwards in the last few years. We know that equality does not come about by itself. Equality comes from us taking the fight for it. It is about elections, and it is about priorities. I'm glad to say that after half a year in government, a more equal society has finally been shot. With the will of the Labour Party-Center Party government, equality is moving forward, but there is a work that needs to be done every day. With a new direction for the world of work, where the general rule is to be quite clearly consistent, with an activity and distribution obligation that focuses on pay differentials and part-time use, and with pensions from the first dollar, we are fortunately well on the move. As the Minister for Gender Equality warned in his statement on Tuesday, there will be a big message against sexual harassment. We know that in the shadow of methotrexate, sexual harassment is still taking place, and it is our duty to prevent it from happening, in order for the next generation to live in a society where there is no need to be involved in sexual harassment, neither in working life nor in society. The next generation is fuelled by the fact that we're leaving behind in inheritance. In order for us to have an equal society, we need to raise our men's challenges. As the Minister for Gender Affairs pointed out, a man selection should be launched to address the challenge for men. We know that there are several taboos around mental health for men and boys, there are unfortunately higher suicide rates for men, and there are equality challenges that we're going to be looking at. Fortunately, there are many things on the stairs. We're finally going to ban conversion therapy, and it's high time. Because we're not in goal until everyone can live free lives where women and men have the same rights and opportunities both in work, in family life and in society in general. An equal society is our struggle, which we take for the next generation, so that they can grow up in a free and equal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e144	I would also like to begin by thanking the Council of State for the presentation she made for us on Tuesday. I think this has become a good tradition, and I also hope that this is something we can continue in the years to come. And with the government's commitment to equality and diversity, I feel pretty sure that we're going to do it. The presentation was quite extensive. I was sitting a little bit thinking that this was completely opposite of «no mention, no forget». There was a lot of talk here, and that's good, although I think it might have been a little bit more pointed in which direction you want to go. This was a statement that naturally points in the direction that the government wants to go on all of these fields – one has not been in government for so long – but explanations are usually also about making up the status. And then I understand that the government doesn't want to spend any time drawing out the good things that the previous government actually did. In the paper, the Council of State, among other things, looked at that she will not be a councillor sung in the glory of the work of others. But I actually think that, even in such an explanation, you should be able to devote some time to what you have actually achieved. That is why I also completely disagree with the representative who stood on the interlocutory before me, who said that the shot is now finally turned around. There's no reason at all. It is clear that Norway is one of the world’s most equal countries. Then I agree with the previous speaker that we are not in any way in the goal, but when you claim that this is a turnaround, I believe it is a rewriting of the story that the government or representatives of the Workers' Party have not been served to address in this Chamber. There is much more left to do, both for men and women, for diversity and for LHBTIQ people. But I still want to draw out some of the things that the Solberg government started, and some of them are fortunately going on as well. Because if there are going to be more articles today that say that there has been a setback for equality, or that the shot is finally turned around, I will at least contribute to us putting on the map also what is actually done. There's been a commitment to women's health. Work has been started on an investigation into women's health, and there was also a six-point strategy for better women's health. We received an action plan on freedom from negative social control and honor-related violence. Local negotiations were also opened, in order to facilitate the conclusion of local agreements in order to secure voluntary part-time work. And then I also want to mention that from 2013 there have been 90 000 fewer women working part-time. We're not in the goal, it's still involuntary part-time, but it's a good progress. Cheaper kindergartens were introduced for low-income families. A clearer and stronger common law on equality and discrimination was adopted. It was put on both men in health and girls in technology. I share the concern of the Council of State that we have a sex-shared labour market, and there is also evidence of pay differentials between men and women. We have measured gender balance in state companies, directorates and agencies, and gender-neutral job titles. I have to admit that I'm one of those who think it's a little difficult to get away from familiar, dear titles like county nurse and health care sister, but state administrators are now starting to sound good to most ears. We have implemented an inclusion promise that also benefits minority women, which means that they can have a greater chance of entering the labour market. Furthermore, it is about the action plan on violence in close relationships, the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, the action plan for women entrepreneurs – the list is very long. So I hope we're not going to stand here and fight and say that now we need to turn the shot, or that this has been lost for years, because we're not there. But it is not that even when you exchange government, everything is expected to be done during the period. We were not in the goal in 2013 when the government took over Solberg, after the Stoltenberg government had sat down. There was still work to be done. We're not in 2022, even after our eight years in government. There is still work to be done, but I look forward to continuing this work, because – as the representative of Almeland also mentioned – we agree a lot. Here it takes effort, and I am very willing to work for it. And then I hope that next year we'll have come a little further, and that the status can be settled in 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e186	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good account of the government's equality policy. The presentation is a good starting point for today's gender equality debate, a debate that is still extremely necessary and important for us to continue to take. Although Norway is one of the world’s most equal countries, work cannot stop — rather, the work to ensure equal rights and equal opportunities for all people in our society must continue with a high focus and good policy instruments. We still have gender equality challenges, and that's why it's an area where we still need to have a high focus, an area where we still have to pursue an active policy. I am therefore pleased that we have a government and a big deal that wants to do just that. Equality is about improving quality of life. Equality and equivalency are an important prerequisite for everyone to have a decent life. Equality is a human right. Equal opportunities shall be available to all to participate in the labour market and to have an influence on social development. No one in Norway shall have a lower starting point because they are either biased, religious minorities, disabled or not fit into any manager’s view of right or wrong sex, because of their family situation, or whether they have a different skin colour. In Norway we have come a long way in many areas. Nevertheless, better organisation, up-to-date competence and a better understanding of gender equality still remain. Today we grow up with more possibilities than we had a couple of generations ago. Despite this, we still feel that people with disabilities, different skin color or religious minorities are discriminated against in the workplace. There is still a strong gender-based working life in Norway. We see that women are paid less than men and work more part-time. We see that different groups are still being discriminated against, and there is a lack of organisation for everyone to participate in the world of work. As stated by the Council of State, there is a need to ensure active equal opportunities in employment. There is also a need to assess how conscious governments and leaders around the country are in recruiting women into top positions. It's not about being quotad, it's about being competent because, in line with men, they have a lot to contribute. Unfortunately, women are still discriminated against or not found competent enough. Last week we saw a good example of this when Orkla bombed roughly on their own equality goal when they chose to have a leadership group with only men. There were apparently no women who fit into the role. I strongly doubt that is the case. This is also a good example of how it doesn't only help to set goals if you don't follow it up with action. It also shows a lack of knowledge – knowledge that experience shows that diversity and equality contribute to development and better results. The insecurity of working life and the lowering of attitudes about what individuals can do is not building people up. That's why we have to pay homage to those who make untraditional choices, who may break some old traditions and norms, who will be a nurse, who will be an engineer or a top manager, without being critical of their choices. Gender equality must have the overall objective of ensuring that no one asks questions about whether they have a place in society, in working life or in Norway, because they are different or have something unique about them. The growing generation has much to be thankful for those who have gone before and walked up the path in the past. But gratitude is not enough. Everyone has an obligation to further develop the work that has already been done, to take another step forward. Only that way can we get even better. Equality is about attitudes, how we think about, how we organize and evaluate people we surround, at all levels of society. How we talk about each other has a meaning, how we talk to each other has a meaning, how we go ahead as examples and how we treat each other has a meaning. Generations before us have worked hard because Norway is one of the world's most equal countries, but it doesn't have to be a rest cushion, because every day we see that we still have a way to go. We see it in the workplace, in business, in the media, and not least in society in general. Now our task is to take the stick further. There is still a need for political governance to promote equality, and I am proud that the Workers' Party and the Centre take this responsibility seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e205	Thank you to the Council of State for the presentation. I have heard the term ‘equality in reverse’ from this pulpit for five years, although no international corps indicate that Norway is in that situation. So I had hoped that maybe the tone of those who are now in position could be a little different today, but it didn't. But it's very good, which we agree on. But the Progress Party should be the first party to admit that there are still challenges. One of the things the Progress Party has worked a lot on and focused most on when it comes to gender equality in Norway is the situation of very many young people when it comes to social control, honorary violence, forced marriage, etc. I am very pleased that the Council of State spent some time on this in its article. But I'm a little worried when you don't know how or when you want to do it. A sample has been selected, but it is only briefly mentioned that the government should strengthen the work of children who are left abroad. However, it was a unanimous decision in the last period in which the government was asked to enforce the ban on detention in situations where children will be or have already been sent abroad. I expect that to be followed up. I hope that the level of ambition is not lowered in this respect. I also think it was good that the Council of State underlined the importance of following up the recommendations of the Partner Draps Committee. We know that there are a lot of people who actually have a dangerous everyday life in their own home. There is something we constantly have to work with, of course to women, but also men who live in dangerous situations at home. However, where our roads are separated, this applies for example. the focus on female health, the insurrection of the child, and not least the leave scheme. Several parties in this room call for thirds to be a good equality tool. The Progress Party believes that families should be allowed to decide on their own everyday lives, and that this in itself is a strengthening of equality. The same applies to the continuous admission into kindergarten, and not least to ensuring full childcare coverage. There are few parties in this Chamber – if I remember correctly, only the Left – who supported some of the proposals of the Progress Party. I think that's disappointing, because you know that having the opportunity to send children to kindergarten and for example. avoiding unpaid leave is an important issue of equality. I remember how heated the discussion about conversion therapy was last. I am glad that the Council of State is still working on this, but perhaps this just illustrates that it was not as easy as any representatives in the previous period stood and said at this pulpit. I understand that this work is demanding, but I must be allowed to say that I also think it will take a long time. In this context, I would like to stress that this year we are celebrating 50 years of freedom in this country – decriminalising homosexuality in Norway. The situation is not the same in many other countries, countries we are actually cooperating with and providing assistance to. I think this is something we should focus on, when you know that this is widespread in a lot of countries, where the rights of homosexuals are under strong pressure – not only on other continents, but actually on our own. In the case of the blacklist play to the Right yesterday, to which the Council of State leaned, I almost have to come back to it in a new post. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e224	I would also like to start by thanking the Council of State for a very good presentation. I was really very happy, because it's so inwardly important this with the structural changes that need to be made to achieve complete equality in society. I was happy when the Council of State reviewed the theme and told what plans are going on, and what plans are going on. It kind of made me feel a little proud that there's actually a lot of good work done here. At least this representative will do all she can to help strengthen it. I've worked most with working life. I come from a role as a principal trustee in a large hospital, and therefore I am very concerned about this with whole, permanent jobs. Unfortunately, it is a fact that some of the worst jobs in all the permanent jobs are the large public employers. In the health sector, there are a huge number of people working part-time, and in addition to working part-time, there are a lot of people working at unfavorable times of the day. It hits women especially hard because it's still a fact that women take the most of the care chores at home, both for the little ones and for the old ones. Getting life to hang together in a strenuous tour profession is demanding. When the work in a hospital is as tiring and tough as it is, many people are unable to stand in the entire positions in difficult tours. Here's a lot of work to do. We can't stand here and adopt the tournaments for people, but I think we have to do something more than just have good plans. We have to do something important structurally. What I'm very pleased about is that we now have a government that will once again strengthen the law, strengthen the work environment law, so that there will be less room for temporaryity, less room for part-time. I am glad that employers now actually have to decide on and document the need for part-time, and also that we have the good tripartite cooperation, where it is actually necessary to discuss it with trustees. Several have mentioned parental leave, and we also have a case to deal with about it. I'm very glad that there will still be a majority in this magnificence and in the country to keep the third parental leave. We saw in a report that came from Nav that many took unpaid leave, and it is claimed that there should be a reason to change the permit rules. I believe that we are wrong. Rather, we have to change the obstacles that lie around society and adapt it so that parental leave can work well for people, for example. to have continuous access to kindergarten, which is an important thing for many, and also to ensure that women can exercise their right to breast-feeding. It was mentioned here from a representative that you had a great project called Men in Health. Then I wanted to mention that yes, it was a very nice project to balance the sex-shared labour market, but unfortunately many of the participants at Men in health experienced that they did not get a job in health care afterwards. It was simply not a job to recover. It's also one of the structural things we have to address. There are many other fields I haven't talked about now, so I have to come back to that in a new post, but I just want to mention that I'm also very happy that we're going to get the CRPD into Norwegian law. I want to talk more about universal design from this pulpit later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e241	I would also like to thank you for a good account. Equality is an individual, a local, a state and an international task. The balance of power between gender, how minorities in society are cared for and how their human rights are managed is fundamental to whether we define societies as democratic or free. That obligates us all. It obliges us to respond when gay people's rights are undermined in Poland, or when elected Kurds in Turkey are deprived of their rights. That means we have to get women into the boardrooms, that we have to actively work for gender pay in Norway, and that means we have to break down on everyday racism. It obliges us as politicians to take the step past investigations and pious words. It obligates action. Governments devoted a lot of time to the economic inequality between the sexes, and that's good. But I would like to stress that there are more powerful measures than those presented by the Council of State, which you can use if you really want to reduce these differences. We in Red want an equal pay pot, and we want to open up so that you can have a higher pay bill in the women's dominated professions. We're going to legislate for full time. This is more effective grip than the government adds. The minister said she wouldn't be satisfied with the statistics. A significant part of the statistics not to be satisfied with is that about half of the reports of violence in close relationships and about 80 pst. in the case of notified rape cases in Norway. This means that the conditions for living their lives free from violence and abuse for many women are not present. It is critically important for gender equality work in Norway to strengthen legal certainty for women, to adopt a consent law and to improve the preparedness of women at risk of violence. We in Red have, on several occasions in the last year, been downgraded in our attempts to put crisis centres in Norway to help all the women who need it. At present, Sami women do not have a real and adapted crisis centre offer at all. While the government is looking for will and money, women and children are stuck in harmful relationships. It's our responsibility to help them out, and it's urgent. Women fleeing – over the Mediterranean, from the war in Ukraine and many other places in the world. We know that the traffickers flock around the asylum recipients, that rape is the weapon of war, and that the trip here may have cost so much. We need to be prepared for them, for the crisis centres in the communities and in the welfare. Our solidarity must strike equally wherever the women come from. On 30 May, the Abortion Act is 44 years old. Meanwhile, the struggle for women's rights is raging to determine our own bodies around us in the world. Many of us have seen the clip of U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris, who, in an interview, is trying to get a conservative male judge to mention one single example of the legal regulation of the human body. He can't, of course, to politicize and regulate the human body would have been unheard of. In Norway, we put a woman in front of a denominator to explain her life choices and justify her right of access to her body if she has to have an abortion after week 12. This is also unheard of. The abortion students have to go away, and before that happens, we can't actually claim that women in Norway are free to make their own choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e258	Thank you to the Council of State for the presentation. We've come a long way in equality, but we're not in goal. Men still earn more than women, and we need more women in the top of Norwegian business. It's a good thing the Council of States is lifting up. But it's also not the same possibilities for those who have a different name, a foreign name, a disability or another sexual orientation, to always get a position on equal grounds. At the same time, I strongly disagree with the strong defence of the rigid thirds of the leave system in the name of equality between the government and the Trettebergstuen. Several have pointed to the link between unpaid leave and the introduction of three-part parental leave. This expounds the councils elegantly. Equality is important, and we politicians have a lot of power, but we can't assume that there are women who give birth. Less than half of the women take unpaid leave, lose pension credits, sick pay rights and get less pay. Then we have to alert, and we have to listen to what the families are actually saying. The families have said from a long time ago. They want more flexibility in the parental leave. They'll choose how long they'll be home with their kids. That's what the government should take over. Equality for the Workers' Party is about opening up those who choose right, we have heard – choose career and short parental leave. Misunderstand me right, I think that too is good, for those who want it. But for all those who don't want it, who think they'll do something else, it's not in the name of equality that they're not allowed to choose. The Christian People's Party will facilitate women and men to choose for themselves. That is what we believe to be the modern and new equality struggle. Nina Mikkelson is the initiator and administrator of the Facebook Group The Permission uprising, a group of 33 000 members. She's an IT architect. She wants to choose herself and has many with her. She has high education, some have low education, some are concerned with careers and others are not of careers. But modern women and men will make their own everyday life, which suits them and their families. That's what the government should take over. The Christian People's Party is also concerned that we want to have a society that is adapted to diversity. The fact that having a function variation should be in the way of getting a job is actually not good. The Christian People's Party wants the BPA system to be an equality tool, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Trettebergstuen promises in the statement that they will incorporate the CRPD into Norwegian law. It supports the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with women and women's health, that it should have a much better place in Norwegian health care. It's still the way we research the most on men, and treatment is given based on results from the human body. Women are not men, and men are not women. We need to have our own research on female health. I am very pleased that, at the same time, we have had a case in the Health Committee about equality. Think that we must legislate that a woman should have the right to have a support person with her during birth! It was just supposed to be missing. But it's still the way in some hospitals you feel that because it's refurbishment, or because professionals disagree on how far women have come to birth, the partner or supporter is put on the waiting room with newspapers. One must wait until they think the woman is in birth. I am pleased that we have now put an end to this. Then I will stop telling you that when I was ten years old – we were one of the first to receive television – homophilis were decriminalized in Norway. I didn't know much about homophilia, I remember. But what I remember was how bad it was talking about those who were gay. Homo is today still the most used shell word. That means we're not in the goal. Equality is important, but it's also about equal rights regardless of gender, orientation, skin color and functionality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e281	It is right that, in my presentation to the Stortinget the other day, which several representatives have addressed, I went through the societal areas in which we have gender equality challenges. It's really most of them. But the most important thing about my statement, which distinguishes us from the statements made by the previous government, was that in addition to pointing out the problems, we say something about what we're going to do with them. I could show many examples of success in Norway, as did the previous government, but we are all aware of that. That is what I mean by not wanting to be an equality minister who rests on the job those who have gone before us and have taken the big equality fights have done. I want to do something about the areas in which we have challenges. That is why this government will have a strengthened and renewed gender equality policy. We have great ambitions. The objective of gender equality policy is simply to allow more people to have safe and thus free lives and to experience who they are. That is what equality policy is all about. Still working too many ladies part-time. We still need more knowledge about women's health. Very many, women in particular, live an unfree life, under negative social control, and very many are subjected to sexual harassment. Racism continues to be something that is increasingly happening here in Norway, and we have to admit that it hinders people's freedom and thus security. Persons with disabilities are subject to extensive discrimination in very many areas of their lives, and the living conditions of the skews are still worse than those of the rest of the population. There, by the way, I have a good news today, because in the last eight years, during the right-wing government, ILGA's Rainbow Map fell on which countries are doing well on the rights of the skives, we have been told today that Norway is now taking a pants and going up. That's good news. When representatives from the right point out that they also did something, it is true that some action plans and some individual projects were launched. However, the systematic, thorough gender equality policy and interventions were absent for eight years, and it became apparent that Norway went downwards on the OECD index of gender equality. You don't get that. It is not consistent with individual projects or action plans when there is a total unwillingness and lack of understanding about the need to do something about the large social structures that make women systematically excluded. Much of it is about economic and labour policy. Providing employment policies and economic policies that allow women to be economically independent and thus free is one of the most important things — yes, it is a prerequisite for an equal society. Therefore, the full-time effort of the government is one of the most important things we can do. Secondly, it is extremely important that we take proper action in terms of freedom from violence and harassment. It destroys life, and there are serious societal problems. The announcement of sexual harassment is an example of what we do, the strengthening of crisis centres another. Negative social control is a major equality challenge that is being talked too little about. That's why the fight against negative social control is also what we raise as our priorities in this government. Women's Health: Gender is important to your health and the health challenges you face, but also how you are met in the health care system. I look forward to following up the investigation that was started on women's health, and to following it up with the Minister of Health and Care in a new women's health strategy. We are also concerned about raising gender equality challenges. The struggle for more freedom is something that all serves. We can't have it so that the equality struggle is made as women's struggle against men. Everyone wants more people to be free. For too long, man's challenges have not been taken seriously, and we will do something about that. Then it is 50 years since we decriminalized the ban on homophilis in Norway, but still many live in the cold water of what the paragraph caused by stigmatisation, discrimination and bad attitudes. That is why we need a new and reinforced action plan for LHBTIQs. That's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e310	I want to ask the Council of State a question about conversion therapy. The councils, like many in the Right too, have been impatient to get it in place, and the Solberg government sent a proposal to the hearing that was due in the middle of October last year. There it was, among other things. Discussed whether there should be an age limit of 16 or 18 years, how this set itself up against human rights for adults, and so on, which I understand the Council of State will look into. I would like to point out that this was in line with what the other country has done. But what I'm asking is what the Council of State has done. Something has been sent back to the hearing, e.g. on marketing bans – which I must say I support, together with the Right, that must be in place? When does she think that this could be dealt with on the Storting, and when will a law come into force? I see that there are some different signals sent. In Blick the headline is that it is right around the corner, but in the case it says at the same time that you cannot say anything about when it will come. We're all impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e317	I just want to remind you of something that was pointed out in an article – perhaps not by the representative Kristensen; sorry – here earlier today: that this takes time. Respectfully notifying the previous government over two years after the Storting’s request to ban conversion therapy — two years to come up with a proposal that does not prohibit conversion therapy at all. On the contrary, the proposal put forward by the previous government makes it legal or confirms that part of what is conversion therapy is actually legal. Therefore, we needed to take new rounds, for conversion therapy should be prohibited, whether you are old or young – sentence. I told Blick that what's going to be held in consultation now, a real ban and a ban on marketing – for it to receive that kind of enquiry, to call it that, is offensive in itself – is right around the corner. I can't say anything more than that, but it's coming very, very soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e324	I record that the Council of State and I again have quite different perceptions of reality, but that's what I'm getting used to. I'll be waiting for you in suspense. They spent time investigating conversion therapy, but a lot was also investigated, so I'm amazed that it's going to take so long for the council to follow up on this further. But I want to go over to another theme, and it's about football World Cup in Qatar. Today, the shocking news came that three hotels say no that LHBTI people can stay at the hotel during the World Cup. A further 20 recommend that you do not show a laying when you are visiting. This is shocking. As usual, FIFA is unclear and simply says that they are sure that the necessary measures will be put in place. I don't trust that in one second – these promises have been broken over and over again. Soccer President Lise Klaveness has said that this is not acceptable, nor is it in line with what the World Cup committee has promised. So I'm really just wondering how the government, on behalf of the government and the political environment, could help support football president Klaveness, so LHBTI supporters can actually feel safe and secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e331	I totally agree, it's terrible to look at. The football shall be for all, and it is desirable that a World Cup be held now in a place where there are serious violations of human rights – also in connection with the organisation of the event itself – and that it is quite obvious, because of the legislation of the country, that LHBTIQs cannot safely enter and participate under the World Cup. I fully agree that the FIFA statements are – as usual – very puzzled, and I am concerned that they are not now doing the job to ensure and try to make the football available to everyone. That is why we support the position of the Norwegian Football Federation here and the work they do. I myself, along with Lise Klaveness, have been out in the newspapers and said that it is a paradox that the football president and the equality minister in Norway cannot travel to the football World Cup in Qatar. This is also what we are following up in the bilateral dialogue with Qatar.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e338	In recent times, we have seen terrible examples of how the girls in Afghanistan are doing. The Taliban was flown to Norway on private aircraft in the naïve belief that Norway could participate and set the agenda for how terrorists treat girls. We have now seen examples of school denial, canning orders and bans on living alone outside the home. It is difficult for women to drive a car, for example, and now perhaps also a ban on it. I wonder what the Minister for Gender Equality thinks about this, as we spend time and money inviting such people to our country. Should we not cut off all ties with terrorists who do not support equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e347	I understand that the representative is disappointed that Norway has not been fully implemented and changed the overall view of the Taliban. No one would have expected that. But it's important that we use our power and our ability to try to influence that kind of regime in the right direction. The talks that Norway has had with the Taliban at different levels have also contributed to several things that are good for the population of Afghanistan, in terms of emergency aid and humanitarian work, etc., but we are taking a great deal of distance from the developments that are now taking place. It's awful to look at. It's sad and anxious to see that country going back where you thought a few years ago that it could go in a completely different direction. But I really have no basic belief that boycotting, closing the dialogue and not having contact contribute to anything other than that kind of thing just proves itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e356	Thanks for the answer. I want to focus on a slightly different matter that we discussed very much in the committee last time, and it concerns equality between men. The Minister was involved in the equality of men — among others. with the human committee – and with the human health challenges. I think that's very good. We have some amazing representatives at the gallery here waiting for the case afterwards, which especially applies to the health of firefighters. But what I'm asking is where the Minister for Gender Equality puts himself in the matter of cohabitation. I have requested answers from the family minister on a number of questions about what is being done against cohabitation. It's also a gender equality problem because it's usually men who are affected by this, even though of course it's women as well. I could imagine hearing what the minister is thinking about doing against cohabitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e363	That men quite systematically in very many areas and with very many handles, as well as being prevented from being carers for their children, whether they are not allowed to take out the paper commission they want and deserve, or being subjected to cohabitation, is completely unacceptable. We shouldn't be there in 2022. I want to fight that, and the government has also said that we should deal with it. This is also of the things that it becomes natural that the human selection discusses. But it's also true that cohabitation can happen because you have some systems that allow it. That's why I think it's going to be very important to bring this with us when we're going to review the new Children's Act, and there's a lot of the system of child sharing and that you might actually have some financial incentives that make it possible to do cohabitation. We just have to try to figure that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e370	A number of investigations were announced in the State Council’s presentation. This representative has previously discussed with the representative Tretenbergstien the involvement of investigations, what investigations really are, and what they mean. I'll follow up that thread in this context as well. One of the investigations that I am very happy to have been notified is the investigation of a third gender category. That's something the Left has previously proposed in Stortinget on several occasions that we should introduce, and I'm glad that hopefully we'll get there that we'll introduce it. But what the Council of State has consistently said is that she is warning that this should be investigated. So I hope this is an investigation into how it's going to be introduced. We know it's practical, other countries do, but can the Council of State guarantee that she will deliver a proposal to introduce a third gender category to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e375	I think it's important to have an investigation, because in the debate on the introduction of a third gender category, there are, with respect to reporting, very many prejudices. There's a lot of lack of knowledge. There's a lot that comes into that debate, which doesn't belong there. I think that when we get an investigation into what this means, and what practical consequences it will have for them, but also for the others, I think we can form the basis for a cleaner and more sober debate on maybe some more sober premise than it has been so far. So we in the Working Party want to introduce a third gender category. The centre party has not taken a decision on this, and the government has not taken a decision on it yet, so I cannot guarantee it, but I want it. Now we're starting with this investigation, and then I'm glad that we can get a fair discussion about what this means. I hope we can get there that those who don't feel like men or women can be allowed to tick for another category. But it is nice to see that the representative wants to work with us on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e383	Then I note that we do not actually know what that investigation will lead to. I share the ambition that at least the Council of State here expresses, and I hope she has a say in the government for that. This is one of the points that makes it that we still don't have the full score on this ILGA Rainbow Map ranking. One reason we're getting higher this year is that the previous government made clear our grip in an area where we were weak, namely the area of hate crime. I'll repeat one of the questions I've asked the Council of State before, but in a slightly different way. There are a number of areas that ILGA also says in the brand new Rainbow Map, among other things. the area of hate crime where we don't get the full score, that it's really a road map for the councils to follow. How will the Council of State take it further to ensure that the field of hate crime is fully covered, so that we can get the full score, and that people actually get the help they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e390	The case of hate crime is an area where Norway really scores quite poorly. We have a lot of hate crime, and it's very serious. It's about boys and girls, women and men, being knocked on the street because they're renting with the same sex, or showing that they're LHBTi people or not acting like the sex norm requires. Here we did in government the eight red-green years, but also the previous government, important grips. I'll take this with the Minister of Justice. The Hurdal platform tells us to step up our efforts against hate crime, and we're going back to how we're going to do it, but we're going to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e395	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e402	I would also like to thank the Minister for Equal Opportunities for the presentation earlier this week. There was – as many have been in the field – a rich but at the same time a relatively superficial account that swung into very much in the field, but which went little to the depth of priority challenges or solutions. One of the many areas where the councils were in was sexual harassment. The Council of State was clear that this is a serious problem and hinders equality in the workplace. And then she showed quite quickly to the Department of Defense's work to counteract this. I had probably expected the Council of State in its presentation to have raised the matter that became known through the VG two days before her presentation – the case where a command repeatedly filmed a female soldier in the shower, allegedly 38 videos filmed on five different dates in two different countries. The sergeant was the soldier's closest command and is despite the complete absence of judgment, still employed in the Defense. I've got 19 years behind me in Defense, eight of them as the head of the Security Committee for the soldiers. Three of the best-remembered achievements are that we launched an annual awareness campaign, we were set up a security investigation that is the predecessor of today's investigation into bullying and sexual harassment in the sector, and the last victory was the impact of female protection obligations. Unfortunately, VG's lookup tells me that the defense still has a long way to go, and the lookup last Sunday makes me anything but proud of my actual employer. There is room for major improvements in legislation, practice, attitudes, and not least against. We should all be glad that some people are orcs to stand in the load it is to be a warning. For that very reason, I expected the Council of State to pay attention to the matter in its statement and not just to tell them that the Ministry of Defence will continue its work in the sector. This work is obviously not good enough. Let me conclude with a case from Business today, May 6, which is about age gaps, which was also not a large part of the presentation. The article describes that several of our former foreign ministers have wanted younger ambassadors, but the Norwegian faces outwards are relatively ageing. The average ambassador is 58,5 years, half of Norway’s ambassadors are over 60 years old and only two are under 50 years old, while Sweden has 13 ambassadors in the 40s and the British have ambassadors all the way down to the 30s. The Minister for Gender Equality obviously has things she should and can talk to both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs about, and I want her to be happy to bring equality into the debate with the two.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e419	Equality is still necessary and must therefore remain high on the agenda. Equality is about giving all the same opportunities. For us in the municipal fraction, equality is especially about the right of all people to participate in society. It is about good performance and the ability to participate in activities and in the everyday life. There is no place for individuals to be excluded from community participation because of their disability. That's why we need to work continuously on and for equal rights and opportunities for everyone. Universal design, both in, on and by public construction and in society, is therefore absolutely necessary to include them with the need in a good and respectful way. Equality is about meeting all people with respect. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring good, equivalent services and good quality of services offered to the inhabitants of the municipality. It is also vital that kindergartens and schools actively tackle harassment and bullying that occurs in early childhood and early childhood. We know that such traumas early in life can lead to serious challenges for young adults and later into adult life. There must therefore be room to discover and to say from when children and young people are being unfairly treated. We simply cannot accept harassment and bullying. The municipalities also have a special responsibility when many refugees in these days are to find their place in different Norwegian municipalities, and the big community has a responsibility to mitigate conflicts between different groups and different religious cultures and to take care of all in a good and inclusive way. Work towards an equal society is not our goal. We in the government parties must be the driving force in this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e432	Linn Merete, Najah, Lisa Iren, Camilla, Helen, Sunniva, Cansel, woman 35, woman 47, woman 25 – these are the last ten women we know who have been killed by a partner or former partner, one they may have lived with, one they've been girlfriends with. The female caterpillars marked the beginning of this year. Even before Easter, seven women were killed in Norway. The women's raps are alerted tragedies. It is painful that more and more women are killed without proper work being started to stop it. Seven out of ten have been in contact with the auxiliary device. But we haven't been able to stop it. Then we have to take a serious settlement with a lack of protection for women in Norway. These figures should have created a big debate in Norway about how to stop the violence and the killings, because behind each of the numbers it hides a life that has been lost. Behind these figures there are also women living with domestic violence. We have to prevent one of them from becoming the next. We need to stop the women's raps, and now we need the government to show action, because it almost never starts with a killing. The vast majority of partner killings occurred after one or more advance warnings. Now we must take the prevention and follow-up of violent women seriously, before we have even more lives on our conscience. For every day we wait, more women are in danger of being abused and, in the worst case, killed. Every day that goes without action from the government will be a great betrayal of all women who live with fear. Work against violence in close relationships can actually save lives. Ten times more women than men have experienced two or more serious forms of violence, both physical violence and rape. Women report to a significantly greater extent than men that they fear being injured or killed in connection with violence. Unfortunately, the fear of women coincides with reality. If we're going to stop the killings, we're going to have to stop the violence. I'm going to have to ask: how would the reactions be if these killings had happened on the open street and not all the victims were women, women who were killed in their homes? I'm sure there had been major debates, all the politicians had fought to come up with the best solutions, and there had been an action plan after an action plan. We have to break the silence, because we have to save the lives that can be lost. It can't go from seven to eight women.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e445	Norway is experiencing a precarious lack of lorry drivers, and that is not so strange. In recent years, we have seen that more and more drivers driving trucks on Norwegian roads have been underpaid to Eastern Europeans. Poor pay and poor employment have reduced the status of one of our society's most important professions, the driver. It is high time to lift the truck drivers to the status they actually deserve. Drivers carry out a socially critical and absolutely necessary work. They build Norway every day of the year. We need to recruit and train more people for this profession. New rules for truck transport will make it more difficult to operate unprofessional carriers with drivers on lice pay. Our government is now proposing to integrate the EU Mobility Package into Norwegian law. This is a victory for those who have fought for decent pay and more seriousness in the transport industry. New common rules for European countries prevent unprofessional low-priced operators from driving freely in Norway. Government parties consider truck drivers to be a professional group with an obvious right to live off their jobs and have a family, a house and a home. It means a lot when choosing a profession, and especially for women. The dominance of man in the transport industry is great, but there is no reason. The few women out there on our roads are very skilled and report good well-being and an exciting working day. Employers also want more capable women behind the wheel of Norwegian trucks. If we are to have a greater diversity in the transport sector, we must ensure a good and safe working life with safe framework conditions. I believe that the conditions for Norwegian carriers need to be strengthened, supervision and control activities need to be intensified in order to maintain acceptable labour standards. Social dumping and labour crime must be eliminated from the transport sector. We're in the process, and this is also an important job of diversity and equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e458	Equality is a very nice word. Thanks to the Council of State that said in the statement Tuesday this week that the government wants Norway to be a leading country in terms of indigenous rights. That seems to me to be very fine, because as early as 1990 Norway ratified ILO Convention 169 on indigenous peoples in independent countries. The Convention guarantees the right to participate in the design of the health services concerned and confirms the right of Sami users to adequate health care. Patient focus comes from Finnmark, a multicultural group with families with Sami, Norwegian and female membership. We haven't made a difference between people in the years we've worked. We've worked for everyone, regardless of gender, ethnicity, profession, residence and relatives, because everyone can get sick. In the Patient Focus, we can choose whether we want to use the Sámi chef, the Kvinna theme, or the Finnland coat – or whether we prefer the sea samsichofta, the kautokeinokofta or the karasjokkofta. We in the Patient Focus have not used our dress as an identity marker in the fight for birth and geriatry to Finnmark's largest city of Alta. We could have done it, but thought it was unnecessary. It is important to be aware that most of those in the same population in Norway live in Tromsø, Kautokeino, Alta and Karasjok. That is, the maternity ward and geriatry in Alta are within three of the country's largest towns and cities. It may have been a mistake for us not to use the ILO Convention in our struggle for birth control and geriatry to Alta. We're going to fix that. Governments point out in the statement that gender has an impact on health and what are our health challenges. This also applies to the Sami population. In Norway, on average, life expectancy is 1.5 years lower for co-workers compared to the rest of the population. The health and care services of the Sami population must be understood within a wider social cultural framework, while concrete measures must be individually organised and locally anchored. We in the Patient Focus look forward to the fact that the government is really doing it so that Norway becomes a priority country in terms of indigenous rights, because it must mean that Sami women, like other women in Norway, are not going to travel 280 km for 4 hours when they are going to give birth, and that older cohabitants who are losing their language because of age weakness escape sad travels in storms and in silence. I just mention it: this is a very important thing that I challenge everyone here at Stortinget to take hold of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e471	Today it's the international day of nurses, and then it fits well with a gender policy debate. It is both important and right that the government puts equality on the agenda. I'm proud to say that I'm a nurse, but it's one of several female-dominated professions that are characterized by a high proportion of part-time time, high sick leave, unfavorable working hours and a high workload. We don't want it like that. That's what the government recognizes. I've just come back from parental leave, and I'm worried about the developments we're seeing in society. Several women choose to take unpaid leave, and there are still a lot of people who choose to work part-time. I don't think this is just about the system. It is also about attitudes, and it is about culture. In Agder, which I represent, we distinguish ourselves especially in that statistics. We have major living and gender challenges. When I talk to people in South Africa, I can recognize the numbers from the statistics. I meet attitudes in which women in particular have an experience that they are bad mothers if they start working when the child is eight to nine months old – despite the fact that the father is going to have leave and be home with the child. And that's a natural part of the conversation how much part-time you're going to work, and not if you're going to work part-time. So these are women talking in between. I'm worried. That's not the culture we want to have. Then it was nice to hear the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality explain the government's policy. The Council of State said that it has been too quiet for too long that we now need a renewed and reinforced action in the field of equality policy. Finally, I would like to strike those women who dare to say that they are happy to start work again after the leave period. I want to hit a blow for dads who dare say that they are happy to be home with their child. And I want to hit a blow for all the beautiful women and men and everyone else who every day takes the fight for a more equal society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e486	I would also like to thank our Minister of Culture and Gender Equality for a thorough review of the status of promoting equality and diversity – I have seen her on online television. Equality affects all parts of society, as witnessed by the Council of State. I'm primarily tempted to mention a number: 91,648. It's not from the Council of State statement, but there's the number of audiences at the ladies' semifinals between Barcelona and Wolfsburg in the Champions League in football in April this year. It's a world record, and in that number there's so much. That same month, the International Ski Association agreed to let women compete in skiing. There's a lot going on on the equality front in sport thanks to people who go ahead, but also through targeted work. I take note of the fact that the Council of State stresses the importance of human economic freedom and economic independence: 'For it is not a self-employed person, it is not safe, and then it cannot be free,' said the Council of State. In this regard, I would like to draw up my municipality of residence, Lørenskog, which has had good results over the years with targeted work to increase employment among home-working women who are far from the labour market and who need qualification to get into work or regular education. The work is supported by the IMDi Integration and Diversity Directorate and has the name ‘Jobshansen’. In 2017, Lørenskog was the country's most beautiful municipality to get immigrant women to work. Last year, in 2021, Lørenskog was awarded IMDi’s housing and integration price, among others. for the good results over time through Jobjessen. Targeted work pays off, and it ensures that more people can experience mastering in the big society. Governments remind us of the sex-shared labour market, and we are still talking today about women-dominated and man-dominated professions. I think we have the potential to guide young people's choice of higher education. For every day I work as an adviser in high school, and I have many conversations about educational choices with young people and supervisors. Young people need role models and correct information, so that in the future we do not talk about traditional and untraditional choices, but just choices: choices from dreams, choices from opportunities and choices from equality and diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e499	I would also like to begin by thanking you for your input from the Council of State to the Stortinget. Gender equality is a shared responsibility in all policy areas and not least in all communities. The word change here today reminds us that we have great tasks leading us in ensuring exactly equality and a lack of skills. I am very pleased that the President is here, but I had expected in such a debate that several male representatives on the Stortinget actually participated. As a health policy spokesperson for the Center Party, I would particularly like to address the great needs for research and gender equality that many people have had. In particular, we need to raise women's health, with clear objectives of better and more research. We know that women often have other symptoms and are more often affected by suffering and plagues related to, among other things. heavy lifting and required workload over time. These pressures often lead to previous disability and lower pension intake, to mention something. A range of diagnoses and diseases are wholly or partly without a knowledge base. This is a major challenge in gender equality. Therefore, the government has a proper and important focus on strengthening work within women’s health, not least through the warning women’s health strategy presented early in the spring of 2023. Another area that is important for the Centre Party is the government’s work on the escalation plan in mental health. A greater part of the population, especially among young people, struggling with ill health. For many of them the result is drop-out both in school and in work. For many boys and men, this is a state of health that very often seems taboo. Here we need to remove the taboo and take the fight for a better mental health. All municipalities in the country must have a clearer and more important role to play in this work, including: ensuring fresh-life work, everyday mastery and other important functions in creating secure frameworks close to people — where a cage, throughout the country. Good equality is about being drawn seriously and met with respect and acceptance for the one's. So I don't get all the way out of the fact that equality is also about father's rights in maternity leave. A strong, even-handed welfare system between mother and father is entirely decisive for equality in practice, contrary to what individual representatives from the pulpit today call for – a weakening and a reduction in the collection of dishes by father at a crucial stage after the birth of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e511	Where's it gone from all of the guys? Of 33 posts registered so far, there are only posts from six of our male grossing-up representatives. I am happy to live in a country with an equality minister, and I am especially pleased that this minister is a worker party politician. I would like to thank the Minister for a good statement on Tuesday – although, of course, I wish we had come further in 2022. I am particularly pleased with the message that we are going to build on the efforts won by the trade union movement, and that it is playing a crucial and important part in the work to achieve equality. And the minister is quite right: we don't have equal work. We also know that equality requires political decisions to be made, and many of us know that equality starts at home. It is essential that both parents are given the opportunity to care for their children at an early stage. Several in this Chamber have pointed out in the spring session that the parents themselves must have the freedom to choose. There have even been proposals to remove people's security in order to obtain leave. But it's illusory to think that it's the parents who have this freedom. They have never had that with respect to the income hedge. Many pregnant women have met in the union offices crying because it was bad for them to get pregnant right now – for the employer. It is a paradox that so many still go with lumps in their stomachs – in a double sense – when they tell their employer what should be the best news in the world. Because it is: A new world citizen is the very symbol of hope for the future, not just here in Norway, but for a whole world. It's not entirely a coincidence that everything from popes to presidents is sweeping around and lifting babies and giving out kisses. While women are afraid to tell the employer that it is now against leave, we can read about the fear that men will lose their career opportunities and that businesses will pay off the parental allowance for men with bonuses to finance mother's loss of income insurance, for Dad to meet jobs in the financial sector. This prevents the role of care. There is no freedom to exempt the protection provided by the legislator to balance the relationship of power between employers and employees. Equality starts with the care role. We're gonna have to fence it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e526	Thank you very much to our very committed equality minister for the presentation. More equality in society means more stability and calm, more economic growth and development, and not least it means a better and more meaningful life for more of the population. Therefore, it should be a narrow matter to ensure more equality both here at home and in other countries. But unfortunately it turns out that it's not that simple. Equality is declining in many countries, not in many countries. Also here on the mountain it stands still. So we went back on OECD statistics in the last period. We've become a little better at equality for minorities, for LHBT+ people and for those with disabilities, but it's still a long way to go before these groups and others can have the same rights and quality of life as the majority. Nor are we much better at gender equality. Our labour market is still very divided, women work less full time, have fewer leadership positions, and not least women still serve less than men in Norway. Still, the mean jump is surprised to hear about typical female diseases such as endometriosis and how little has been done in that area and other female health. And despite the fact that there is more focus on violence and harassment, not least sexual harassment and partner killing, the evil statistics that have become much better either. So it's enough to take care of the government in this area, and we'll take care of it. We want an equality promise. Already now, our budgetary priorities are where our equality centres are no longer cut, but increased. In the future, we will strengthen the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Discrimination Subject and actively follow up on the results of the new duty of activity and presentation, which we put in place in opposition. And a lot of other things are going on. There will be an escalation plan against violence and violence against children and violence in close relationships, we will assess a permanent partner killing commission, and we will strengthen the crisis centres. We have started working on a major communication on sexual harassment, we want to ratify the ILO Convention on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the Workplace and have proposed several changes to the Work Environment Act to clarify the protection against sexual harassment. We also need an active policy to combat attitudes and actions that lead to negative social control, and we want to fight networks and violence, which are part of the challenge of meeting minorities and vulnerable groups today. It is time for a human selection to be put in place, as men also face gender equality challenges in today’s Norway in terms of the role of father, father, education and exclusion. These are some of the measures, and they are needed. Because when we look around us now, in countries that we usually like to compare with, there is a lot of anxiety, in Europe, and – not least shocking – in the United States, the country of the free, where women are now losing the freedom to control their own bodies because of the lack of conservative abortion laws. Scary, but motivating, because we must never allow in Norway to stop fighting for equality for all — never.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e541	I would first like to thank the Council of State for a good presentation. There are still structures that we're not as aware of as we think. Today, equality and diversity in politics, in business, in sport are being discussed, but we also need to raise the issue of gender equality in the Academy of Great Britain's pulpit. Being a full-time politician, as we are, is the same thing as not having regulated working time. This is also true of most researchers. Our scientists are working continuously. They have a free position in many ways, but it requires a full and complete, always. The Kif Committee points out that there is still a marked difference between women and men in Norwegian research. Women are still under-represented in higher positions, so to speak, all subjects. There are far more male than female professors, while there are more female students than male students. Is it still the case that female researchers face more barriers than men? There are far more men than women who are professors. Why is that so? The institutions take action plans and networking, but one thing is through the formal arenas; in research cooperation, the informal arenas of socialisation may have the same meaning. Who is asked to join us for a beer after the conference dinner, and how diverse are these networks? The world is now going forward, but it's not obvious. It is still necessary to ask the unpleasant questions, which rock the unpleasant truths. Gender, diversity, social background — there are several barriers for multiple groups, barriers and structures that limit and prevent one from participating in different venues. Finally, here I want to stay at the social barriers in the academy. Sociology professor Marianne Nordli Hansen pointed out that the working class is 30 pst. of the population, while only 7 pst. of the doctoral candidates have such a background. 78 pst. has a background from the upper class or upper middle class, and there are very stable differences. The education system is not an egalitarian system. In other words, diversity has also dealt with this issue, and the mandate of the Kif Committee has now also been extended to include social diversity. It is not the case that everyone is going to take higher education, but everyone is going to have the same right to higher education. The debate on equality and diversity in academia continues, but now also focuses on class backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e556	Equality is about everyone having equal opportunities. In the Hurdal platform, the government decides that we should pursue an offensive gender equality policy that allows everyone to be included in society, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, functionality and ethnicity. The statement by the Minister for Equal Opportunities stresses that we are in the process. Our education sector is an important part of this work, because it is through the education sector we meet children and young people every day. It's through that we have the opportunity to ensure that children have equal opportunities, regardless of sex, background and ballast. And that's where we can discuss and reflect on values and belongings and give them a good starting point for meeting life. The statistics show that we still have a way to go. The Stoltenberg Committee in 2019 looked at gender differences in school performance. They found that gender differences in training courses are significant and have consequences for further education, work, health and family life later in life. So when we're going to continue working on a youth appointment that was launched a couple of weeks ago, where we're going to look at five to ten. steps, these findings become central to carrying them. One of the things we're going to deal with is that we're going to focus more on practical learning, which we know is important to especially the boys in the education cycle. As the Minister for Gender Equality made clear in his presentation, there are still considerable differences in the choice of occupation, some of which remain particularly dominated by women, while others are particularly dominated by men. Gender scores have now contributed in the right direction, but we also need to look at how they can be used even better. But this in itself is not enough. We need more ladies in technological studies, like engineering education, but we also need more men applying for health and social sciences. We will look into this in our new review of the professional studies, but this is also influenced by how we meet children and young people throughout the course. It is precisely this equality policy that is about. Equality policy is about every decision we make, and what we have to take with us across sectors and committees every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e569	Fortunately, we can say that we are largely concerned with the big lines of Norwegian policy, but I disagree with the description of the representative from the right before, because it is not that equality goes forward no matter what happens in the country. Equality is about putting forward the will for politics. Not taking a choice to promote equality is also an option that we know will continue the biased distributions of power between gender and diversity that are in Norway today. All those who are concerned about equality, the right-wing government thinks it's putting equality in reverse. The right government cut down on the father's quota and constrained women's ability to control their own bodies by restricting abortion laws; it was the time's protest against government's abortion policy two consecutive years. They drew our gender equality message and spent two years delivering a message just for action, where we suggested 40 measures and got a majority for about 13. The right-wing government increased the cash support, increased the maximum pediatric prices and suggested not least the right to reserve. We went down to the statistics on the world's most like-minded countries in the last eight years. The few things that made a take on equal opportunities were largely forced by the opposition to do. I stand on mine when I say that the shot is reversed for a new equality policy with this government. Finally, we can say that there is a new time for equality and future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e578	I think it is good to talk about how the working life of Norway works. However, what I have missed in the debate here today is why it is so important for the government to go to the fight against, for example. private welfare actors. We are well aware that without the private ones we had not had the babysitting we have today. It would have made many people unable to be at work. Without the private ones, we couldn't have the health care we have, and last but not least, in the refugee crisis we're facing now, we would never have made it if it wasn't because the private ones got around and were fast at the lab, as we say in Bergen. I think it's very strange that the government parties in crisis situations recognize and let go of the private when no one else can stand up, while immediately it silences, you take up the fight. I'm very concerned about this, of course because it can affect our welfare services, but also because very many in the private welfare services are just women. If it is so important for the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, and not least for the UK, to ensure good jobs for women, why is the fight against their jobs so important? I still do not feel that we have received an answer today, and I hope that someone wants to explain myself a little more. My second big surprise, however, was that yesterday the Right left to blacklist companies that don't have women in top management. Frankly, I thought there were limits to politics, and I'm at least crystal clear that in the time we're in now, the good, stable and secure framework for business we need, rather than discussing what sex business stops have. The Minister has not rejected this proposal, so I also hope that the Minister will be able to clarify how they are supposed to be used, who is going to set them up, and how they can possibly be complained about. I think it is very frightening that a new Norwegian public gap can now be addressed when, instead of discussing gender equality policy tools that actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e591	For one who defines himself as a man, it is very nice to be strongly desired in the pulpit today, although as committee chairman I am most happy that so many have signed up for this debate. It shows, after all, that the Storting is actually concerned with these challenges, and as committee chairman, I am incredibly happy about that. A number of representatives led by the representative Ask Bakke repeat a rhetoric that equality is put in reverse. I think it is a little surprising that the evidence that it has now turned around is a list of actions that the previous government put in place, as the Council of State did in its presentation. Here comes my problem. I understand that the Workers' Party in opposition had a goal and a desire to draw a picture of what the government was at the time. But in position, I had hoped that the Workers' Party was actually interested in finding out about the big lines that we agreed on and that representatives of several parties in the opposition have invited. It does not serve the equality issue to draw up artificial lines of division in matters that we, after all, agree on. It's the fluest of example I could mention. The left has suggested things in the Stortinget that the Workers' Party has voted against and later come down on, but I am not going into it now. That's enough of things to take hold of. A concrete example is that a recent NTNU report shows that sloppy children and young people are overrepresented in child protection. It is a clear sign that there is enough area where we are not doing enough, and I hope that this is also an area where the Council of State, together with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will look at how we can increase competence and ensure that education is improved, which means that biased children and young people in child protection feel and get help with the challenges they have. In the last second, I'm going to use it to give the council the opportunity to answer some of the things that I'm really looking forward to for her to come with. Among other things, she says in her investigation that they should strengthen sexual education. Now new curricula have come to do just that. We would like the Council of State to say something more about how and possibly when. I am very happy to see the LHBTi strategy. When's it coming? When does the investigation on a third gender category come? In the case of conversion therapy, is it a penalty she is investigating, or is it a new special law of her own? It would have been interesting to know. When do we get to incorporate the CRPD, and, not least, when does the new action plan against racism come?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e602	Gender equality in Norway has come a long way in general, but there is a piece left, especially in some industries, and then perhaps especially the man-dominated, like fishing, that I represent. I don't know if we're going to take it positively or negatively that the Råfisk team this week when they had the annual meeting, chose to expand its board, which consists of ten men, to eleven, to accommodate a woman, instead of someone withdrawing. This winter we could also read about Anne, who feared being raped at work in the fishing industry. She cried every day and experienced unwanted attention, greedy glances, contacts and boy talk. Anne's story merges into the series of issues that have engulfed the fishing boats, but it's perhaps the first time we've heard of a story from the seafood industry. It should not be the case that women should be afraid to go to work, and that one must stop because men cannot behave. Now we're past the time when we're saying that you just have to endure this, that's our jargon, we don't mean anything by that. We want a society where women have to feel safe at work – a job where you meet with respect. In order to take this seriously, we need to get these stories out, and we need to take action. I am pleased that both the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality are on the ball and that they have granted money for precisely equal opportunities work in the fisheries sector. This is done in cooperation with industry organisations and the trade union side. And then I hope that the individual employer, who has the practical responsibility, will take concrete action and work with attitude-creating work. We need a zero vision for harassment and an extra focus on the human-dominated professions. We know that diversity creates a good working environment, and on the way there we have to make sure that women feel safe. If we are to have living coastal communities around and attract young and new workers, we must all contribute to women feeling included and valued, and not harassed and harped with. That time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e611	Universal design is not just to facilitate entering a building with a wheelchair. It's all about shaping society in such a way that everyone has the same opportunities to participate. It's about not discriminating against people with functional variations from the workplace. It is simply about changing the basic structures of society as a whole, for example. to incorporate universal design into education for construction, architects, transport, etc. I hope that we can get hold of this when we get the CRPD into Norwegian law, because it's urgent. I dream of a world and a Norway where everyone has equal opportunities, a society where everyone can succeed and thrive, regardless of who your parents are, what you believe, what you look like. Racism and discrimination in all its forms are a threat to such a society and must be combated. Racism and discrimination create distrust between people and legitimise the division of power and resources. It creates a distinction between us and them, where someone becomes more valuable. In order to achieve a more equal society, we need to care for those who need the most community, and we need to meet our international obligations. I share the concern of the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights for the limited and deficient health provision of paperless migrants who have led to a serious deterioration in health and death for chronically ill people. We must stop reducing people to illegal or to a paper, because no people are illegal. We in the SV believe that we need to ensure that these people should also have access to not only emergency health care, but also to other forms of necessary health care, so that no human being dies from the conditions we could have treated, and so that anyone who has children in Norway can feed safely and without fear of the bills. A report from the Public Health Institute in 2019 showed that a quarter of immigrants experience discrimination due to their migrant background. In this quarter, the amount of mental distress is more than twice that of immigrants. That is why I hope that the government in the preparation of an action plan against racism and further work on less discrimination in society also sees health as an important area for the detection of racism, as well as the consequences of racism, as international research shows. We also need more research and action to improve our health system for minority women. A doctoral thesis from the University of Bergen in 2020 showed that women with a migrant background had a higher risk of stillbirth and poorer survival of breast cancer. So here's a lot of work to do, and I hope that's what we get focused on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e626	First, thank you to the Council of State for a great presentation and for this opportunity to take part in the debate in this important area. Equality means that all people should have equal rights and opportunities in our society regardless of gender, function, sexual orientation, age, ethnicity or religion. We're talking about formal and real equality. Formal equality is about having equal rights under the law, the real one, however, means having equal opportunities for participation and development in society in practice. Ensuring real equality is a political responsibility – an important responsibility. Not all groups in society today experience real equality. Children and adults with disabilities, their families and relatives are constantly reporting that they are unfortunately often in a fight. They don't know who they're going to talk to, or what they're right about, or who can help them. Society has developed so many good schemes, but it is not so easy to get involved in them. For many years as an employee of the local PPT service, I have learned that one of the first things we have to do is to map and strengthen the scaffolding around the families. Is a basic benefit, an auxiliary benefit, an individual level. accompanying certificates and in-service relief? Do the families and professionals know the arrangements? Do they need assistance to accept or complete the arrangements? Are they emotionally ready to fill in applications where they have to describe the weakest functions of the children they are so happy with and the aspects they would often want of the whole heart were different? Why do actions work, and are there other issues we need to think about? The Workers' Party and the Center Party have decided in the Hurdal platform that we should review and improve the arrangements for families with children with special needs. It's important to us. As a politician, it is important to be the voice of those who do not always have the strength or profit to be it themselves. Then a debate is becoming important today – debate on equality, real equality for all. Today I chose to be the voice of those with disabilities. I'm glad so many people attend, so everyone gets heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e639	Let me just start by saying that the previous article was a good article. What kind of society do we really want? The answer is no law of nature. When you look at how society has been over the years, and how people who are different and outside the norm have been treated, it may not have been so different from all the people who ruled that time and we who are now. But the hold has changed, and the hold leads to action. When you look at what has happened, both in society and in work, excluding people who have only done the crime of loving one. When you've closed up people who don't have the same level of function as everyone else, or when you've made it harder to be at a job as a woman, it's the society that hasn't done its job. Fortunately, we have the opportunity to do that job. So I was also very happy when I got the right hand statement to Anette Trettebergstien, which shows a genuine commitment to addressing these issues and these themes. I think we have reason to walk in ourselves. I'm thinking in particular about those who have reduced their functionality. I met one who is blind, who asked me the following questions: Can they really afford to miss my resources in Norway? The answer is no. The reason why she asked the question is that the computer system does not support its help in the workplaces it can search for. A single requirement for the digital universal infrastructure could enable us to use it even better. I think we have to go away from a gender equality debate for those with impaired function, who have been far from patriotic and derogatory to talk about people like people with resources, like people who have abilities, "goods" and will, regardless of whether you have to sit in a wheelchair or struggle with vision, because the only difference between now and the past is the grips and actions we're involved in. That's why we have to be the tip of the spear for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e653	Like the representative Almeland, as I see, very much reacted to the representatives Ask Bakke's posts: that post demonstrates a very selective memory. That's the continuation of an alternative story story, and there's also claims for which it's actually not coverage. And there's no need to turn any shot. The councils pointed out that she was happy that you now went up on the ranking across the world's equal countries. As I said in my previous post, it is understandable that the statement on Tuesday did not contain so much about status, but about plans, because it is not so easy to have done so much at this time. But that means that the Council of State is now doing what she said in her statement that she should not do – she is sung in the glimmer of others' efforts. Of course, it's not the only effort of this government that makes you go up, it's also due to the efforts of the Solberg government, which went off last October. But for the most part, this is important, and we're going to keep working together on this, and I hope that I'm able to be brighter than the individual representatives of the government parties and the government council have been here today. I want to start by saying that equality for me is equal opportunities, not that we should be equal, and that it is equally important for both women and men. Then I'm very happy that the Council of State is now going to put down a human selection. I think that's a good grip. I'm concerned that men top so many negative statistics: prison, drug abuse, suicide, life expectancy, involuntary childlessness and school and education. In my four years in the Education Committee, this was something we worked a lot on and tried to get action on it – and got action on it. Special education, non-retirement, lower grades, high female dominance were involved in many higher education studies – not that everyone should take higher education, but that may also be due to differences in the course of education. I also want to warn against black-painting boys and boys' prospects. This can quickly lead to lower expectations and lower expectations for boys. It could be a self-fulfilling prophecy, so we're going to be careful to balance this. But it's very good that there comes a separate human selection. Women need to be raised and increased equality in several areas. But for me, equality is equally important for both. I remember when I was a rapporteur candidate and in the local government – and also when there was a statistics for higher education – that someone said: Yes, now the women are in majority. I think that is wrong. Although men have dominated earlier in these statistics, it is not to be hailed as a minority. Lifting someone doesn't mean it's going to affect others either. This is not a zero-sum game. So we have to work for both, and I also believe that we women have to take their own responsibility, which is not least the debate on parental leave. I wish it could be completely free. I realize that we need a father's allowance, but to justify it because men are not going to fight with their partners about taking parental leave, it has to end. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e666	Time's up. The representative Åse Kristin Ask Bakke has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e673	To be an equal society, we also need to recognise what we're not equal to, to see and solve the challenges. Our working life is still not equal, and women work, among other things. more part-time than men, which I took up before. A part of the gender equality struggle is to ensure that, especially in women’s dominated professions, where there is a lot of part-time work, a few people are entitled to full and permanent jobs. It's also a gender equality game. I am a nurse and proud of my profession, and getting a job in health care is a great honor, but also a demanding job. Then it's our duty to make sure that the rights of the labour force are strengthened. And since today's day is sick nurse, I want to congratulate all the nurses on the day and make all the good suggestions that are on the stairs to make sure that whole, fixed settings become a right thing in our working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e680	I have been sitting and listening to this debate, and it feels like being at the National Labour Party meeting. But that's not so strange, because finally we've got a policy that takes equality forward. It's in stark contrast to what it's been like in the last eight years. That the equality was put in reverse by the previous government is not something we've invented. That's what actually happened, and they admitted it themselves. In a similar debate, there was a great contrast between today's Minister for Gender Equality and Erna Solberg's first Minister for Gender Equality. She spoke in a debate at Stortinget: ‘The critique of the past few weeks is that we are immature, and some say that we have put Norway back into the 1950s. Then I want to say that I agree with those who say that we might be the retro government. Retro is known as being back again and modern again.» It is possible retro is modern in furniture and clothes, but it has never been modern in equality policy. That's where we always have to go in the future. We've come where we are because we've had brave women, and some men, who have realized that equality is not something that comes of itself, but it comes through political struggle. We politicians today are on the shoulders of the fighters. We have so many to thank for the fact that Norway has become the country it is: Fernanda Nissen, Rachel Grepp, Gro Harlem Brundtland, Kim Friele and many others who have sacrificed so much that Norwegian girls and boys today can grow up and live a freer life. We have a government that has realized that we are far from being in the goal. We want to move on in all areas of life, in health policy, in sport, in economic – yes, in all areas we need to go on. We do not have one minister for equality in this government. We have one who is the head of the others, but we have 19 ministers for equality in this government. Equality should go like a red thread throughout this government's policy. This is also the case in foreign and development policy. Norway's brave voice is needed more than ever, because it's a dramatic picture that we see when we look around the world. In the United States, the right-hand side is working to commit abortion. In Qatar today came the message that gay guests were not welcomed in the hotels. In Afghanistan, the oppression of women will never end. Today's government says that equality should be our main focus in foreign and development policy. Norway is needed here. The previous government cut, among other things, in women's right to abortion. We're saying that the time for that is over. Now it's going to be a budget win. Let me end by saying that we never get full equality in Norway unless more men also participate in the gender equality debate. I am pleased that the Minister for Equal Opportunities is taking important initiatives in this area, because it is necessary, and that is also proof of this list of speakers in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e698	It's almost so I could have said amen after the previous article. That was very good. Equality does not come of itself. It comes because a lot of people before us have fought, and continue to fight, both in Norway and not least abroad. Today is the International Nursing Day. I want to take the opportunity to congratulate all the nurses on the day and say a thousand thanks for the job done for us all. We women have a lot in common, but one thing we have in common is that we know much less about our health than about men's health. A woman's heart and a man's heart are not the same, but it's not many decades since you thought you had the same symptoms, for example. myocardial infarction. Today we know that we don't have the same symptoms. It is also about the fact that medical research over time has been based on research on men, it has been based on research on male mice. It's a matter of who's in charge. Eight years have passed. It's been too slow. Female health has not been a priority. We know the consequences that it hasn't been. Now we see a government with a new course, with a goal in itself to strengthen and improve the health care of women. We're going to strengthen the patient paths for women, women's health. We need to strengthen research, improve the supply of sexual and reproductive health. We have already made important changes to the Biotechnology Act from the opposition. We need to strengthen the provision of birth and maternity throughout the country. Then we need the necessary personnel. It is important to follow up women after they have had children. Too many people are struggling with birth depression. What we see is now happening in the United States in terms of abortion is to horror and horror. We will be proud that in Norway we have taken political action for an abortion law. It was about the National Labour Party meeting. There has been a lot of wise and a lot of important steps. The working party has always gone ahead in the equality struggle. In 1969 Grethe Irvoll started the fight to get self-determined abortion. We have now had eight years where there has been a restriction on women's rights. It's kind of special to think about. Now, during the spring, there's going to be something historic. There's a sample that's going to look at the whole abortion law, which means that we can get a proper debate. The aim of the Labour Party is clear: we need to change the changes that have been made. We're going to get rid of the denominators until week 18, because women are more than enough able to make those decisions on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e711	Equality was one of the themes that engaged me so much that I became really angry, but also ended up becoming politically engaged. The equality issues crawled into my mind the very first time when I grew up experiencing discrimination between myself and my brothers. Later, questions appeared in the classroom, in the school yard, in the study course, in study choices, in the workplace, in sex life, in politics, in the city boardroom and now in the main hall. The struggle for equality is an overall struggle for freedom. For example, when the Labour Party Town Council in Oslo had the expansion of the day's nursery, the use of cash support went down. We know the value of children going to kindergarten, but more importantly, there are many women who want to get to work, or come back to work. For their economic freedom, this is very important. That's why kindergartens are part of this freedom struggle. As the Council of State said, if you are not financially safe, you are not economically free. It should simply be the slogan of the Workers' Party. The last time a red-green government crashed, the idea of minority advisors became. I know there are many like me, who grew up with, or grow up with, a foot in several cultures, with the conflicts this creates, not to mention the negative social control many are exposed to. Even I had a girlfriend in hiding, got me a gynecologist far beyond Oslo's borders and wore clothes after whom I came to meet. Today, thousands of young girls and boys can talk to a minority advisor about these conflicts. You get understanding, guidance and help. That's why our minority advisors are part of the freedom struggle. Today I am a justice politician, and the fight against violence against women and the fight against violence in close relations is my heart and the main issue of the Labour Party in the justice field. The right-wing governments did not deliver commitments and a rather funded action plan, but it will be the main task of this government. We must deliver a committed, responsible and funded escalation plan against violence against women and violence in close relations, as we also promise in the Hurdal platform. The pandemic has contributed to twice as many requests coming in, and only this year have we witnessed several partner drops. This must be met with skills, resources and wise organizations that help us to be there before it happens. The killings are always alerted. Our preparedness needs to be strengthened. Finally, violence against women is also a result of the lack of equality. I know, the president knows that, and this whole assembly knows that. That is why the fight for equality is an overall struggle for freedom. There are kindergartens and minority counselors, but no struggle is more important than getting more women to work, and especially immigrant women, so that they can be free and independent and also be part of the freedom struggle with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e724	I wonder that every time we discuss gender equality policy in particular, the right-hand side becomes a little indignant that in the offensive position we point out what we disagree about. You shouldn't talk about what you disagree about; you just have to establish what you're agreed on, and then you have to pretend that it's peace and tolerance and that everyone wants the same thing. But in terms of gender equality policy, the right- and left-hand sides clearly separate layers. We've done that all through history. All those things on the right today have accepted and said they are in favour, they have protested and voted against, and we have drawn them backwards and reluctantly after us. In the presentation, I went through most areas of society and pointed to what we've done. It's important to get started, because we have to move on. There are too many people in Norway today who, because of their disability, are trans, lesbian, biphile or homophile, woman or man, experiencing that their sex or the gender they feel is, hindering their freedom and hence security. We can't have it that way. It was asked when all of our plans should be clear. I'll answer that. The action plan against racism is the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, where they are embarking on extensive work now, where they are going to go out into the country and make good discussions about it and get good proposals. The study on a third sex shall also be clear during the year, and the new and enhanced LHBTI action plan will also come during the year. The important thing for us is not to make plans. What is important is the measures taken in the plans. So I can promise a new, powerful policy. One of the most important things we can do, and as this government does to further equality, is to do those who work every day to change attitudes and spread knowledge and to create equality, to be able to do more – it's civil society, it's organisations, whether it's women's organisations or LHBTI organisations – and to strengthen them financially. That's why I'm very happy that after eight years of cutting and stalling, which means that they've got less to go with, less opportunities to do things, now have turned around, and that we're increasing the grants to them by almost 40 pst. only in the budget of the year. It's important, because it's those people who are the foot people who do the basic, thorough job that we're going to enjoy. I just want to say that it's the 17th of May to the week. It's our national day, and it's also the international day against homophobia. Then I am delighted to say that I am going to Poland to mark it in a country where they are struggling with extensive discrimination against homosexuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e739	The representative of Reason Almeland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e744	When the council says that the right-hand side is indignant, I kind of feel that it doesn't hit me completely, because I'm also busy pointing out the places we disagree about, but here it might not be very much. That was at least my point. I know that the Council of State knows history quite well in the field of equality, and it may not be exactly the Left she's aiming at in many of those cases, because after all, we've tried to drag the Workers' Party after the ears in several contexts. I was challenged indirectly on the abortion question several times. That's where I'd like to say that now's a good time. The left acknowledges what has happened, and there is an opportunity already on 2 June for all parties, including the government parties, to vote in order to remove the abortion topics. That is the proposal. Then I will end the debate by saying a thousand thanks and – once again what I started with – that, despite all this debate, I think it was a good account that was the basis of the Minister for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e755	Representative Silje Hemdal has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e760	I didn't quite recognize myself in the crowd that is cheering up at parties. I am not quite known for it, nor is the Progress Party. That is why I challenged the government on a number of questions in the lines and in my posts, but the minister might have passed by. That's why I really want to stress that while other parties had total anxiety to thwart what goes on social control, honour, etc., it was the Progress Party that had to take that debate and stood for quite a long time alone in it. Fortunately, we're a little bit different today. I still have not received an answer – on the day of nurses, as others have pointed out, and where we congratulate – why it is so important for the government parties to go to the fight against the private welfare actors, where we know that there are just a lot of female nurses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e770	No more people have asked for the floor. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e789	I want to start this interpellation debate by telling Jon Eirik Haugland the story. He worked as a fireman for over 30 years. From the 1980s he went to work and kept us safe. He turned off some of the most dramatic fires you can imagine. He loved his job, but it was also obvious when he came home from work, that this was a job other than the usual. He could be sot and dirty. It was described that he sweated soot. What gases and poisons he had breathed into his service for society is not good to know. In 2016, the discouraging message came that he had aggressive cancer and had few months to live again. It was the start of a long fight, a long fight on which he himself could not see the end. Haugland died in 2017. But his wife, Ilene-Christine Grung, took the fight. She sought uprising from Nav, but there it was rejected, and it is not completely unknown to those who are firefighters and hit by cancer. Up towards 75 pst. applicants for compensation for occupational injury are refused their applications. But she didn't give up. The case went on to the Social Security Court, where they won. It became a decisive image that has gradually become quite iconic, an image of firemen who take a breath in the ground during the hatchery and eat the pizza with soot on both hands, clothes and equipment. It is quite clear that what firefighters are exposed to in their working life is something quite different from what they all experience, most of us experience. Although the fight to Haugland and his survivors was crowned with victory, there are still very many who do not take that fight. In 2014, this was a topic that didn't have much attention, but today we have a meeting in the gallery, led by Torkjell Helle, who is called Fireman Against Cancer, and who has worked systematically and in an excellent way to raise awareness and put this issue in focus. I thought that now it was time to raise this matter into the Storting, to see what policy solutions we can launch to make this fight a little easier for those who otherwise always stand up for us and help us when the accident occurs. What can we as politicians do, either through legislative changes or other measures that can improve the situation of those affected? We know that a lot has changed since 2014. More research has come, more attention and awareness has come, and better technology has come. There's a lot that can be done. This is an occasion when we can discuss together constructively and see if there are solutions and a way forward that means that what happened to Haugland and many other firemen will not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e800	The interpellant raises questions of harmful exposure in the working environment and the significance for firefighters’ health and thereby the right to compensation in the case of cancer. In this regard, I mention that firefighters are potentially exposed by their social activities to a number of carcinogens and combinations of such substances. It is important to ensure that firefighters who are injured or sick because of their job are compensated. I am therefore pleased that the interpellant raises this question. Nav says that about 75 pst. of the rejections concerning firefighters relate to prostate cancer. It shows that the interpellation may not, in reality, apply to the general right of firefighters to have cancer recognised as a occupational disease – as they may – but to have prostate cancer approved. I stress that firefighters – as other workers – have good financial arrangements if they suffer occupational injuries or diseases. We have a two-track system of occupational injury, where benefits under the common rules and special rules for occupational injury and diseases of the population – together with compensation from the statutory professional indemnity insurance – ensure full compensation for victims. On the basis of the Law on Social Security, regulations have been laid down governing which diseases may be recognised as occupational diseases. The rules also apply to professional indemnity insurance. The regulations cover any disease in which the worker is exposed to poisoning or chemical action at work, such as cancer. The inclusion of the disease in the regulation is a necessary but not sufficient condition for it to be recognised as a professional disease. In addition, there must be a causal link between the disease and harmful occupational exposure. An important consideration behind the root requirement is to provide security against liability for damage/losses that are not related to the profession. The reason for this requirement is also related to the basic considerations of prevention and repair, because they require a causal link. In the case of occupational diseases, § 13-4 of the Swedish Social Security Act lays down the second paragraph of the Presumption Rules combined with a reversed burden of proof. This means that, under more detailed conditions, it is assumed that diseases covered by the occupational disease code are a occupational disease. I mention that the provision meets the requirements of ILO Convention No. 42 sets out rules on the recognition of occupational diseases. In case-law, the Supreme Court has clarified how the provision is to be understood. This follows Nav in his treatment of occupational diseases. In the light of a 2012 Supreme Court judgment, the requirement for coherence between exposure as a firefighter and prostate cancer can be met in two ways: either through medical research or whether prostate cancer can be expected to be based on knowledge of the mechanism of exposure and the potential for harm. The interpretation by the Supreme Court clearly demonstrates the importance of knowledge on the relationship between harmful substances in the working environment and cancer, including prostate cancer. Nav’s decisions are based on expert judgements and documented and recognised knowledge of links between harmful occupational exposure and prostate cancer. Today, the notified points of causality between the exposure of firefighters are exposed to, and prostate cancer by experience. In this connection, I mention that in the judgment of 14 January of this year on prostate cancer of a fireman, Gulating's law upheld the claim of the Social Security Court, which, under his confirmation of Nav's refusal, was rejected. The judgment of Gulating Lawyers has been filed before the Supreme Court, and the case is to be dealt with on 11 October this year. I think it can be very reasonable that we are awaiting the Supreme Court's view of the matter before we conduct a wide debate on today's rules and practices relating to Nav's treatment of firefighters' claims for compensation for prostate cancer. Nav follows the case closely – we do – and has brought this kind of case before him pending the Supreme Court’s decision. Finally, I would like to add that, in professional diseases, there may be regular doubts as to the causal link between harmful occupational exposure and the development of disease. Specific rules should not be imposed on individual groups of workers, but with better knowledge through increased research. The National Institute for Safety and Health at Work, together with the Register of Cancer in the driver’s seat, is responsible for a large collaborative study to investigate exposure in the fire sector and the incidence of cancer related thereto.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e830	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and for a statement of the current law, which I am absolutely sure is correctly reproduced. There are a lot of laws and regulations and references to decisions that I know both, and that I am absolutely sure are properly manufactured. I'm still a little concerned that this should be an occasion where we're not just talking about what the state of things is. A little bit of the point is that we raise our eyes and ask ourselves, what will the state of things be like in the future? Is there any way further that can make these processes easier? It's awfully bureaucratic for many – when you're hit by a cancer and at the same time you have to meet a paper mill that is experiencing a lot of violence. I think we all have to admit that. Is there anything we can do to simplify this? Then I fully agree with the Council of State that we should not turn down the principles. We're not going to create new, parallel replacement systems or specific legislation. That's what I'm opposed to. I believe that the right to compensation and the basic principles on which Norwegian law is based have served us well, and we shall keep them. But we've shown in the past that we can show flexibility within the framework. Take, for example: previous – and similar – situations with dentists exposed to mercury, or amalgam, where regulations, etc. could make these processes a little bit easier. I'm not saying that it's completely transferable, but it shows that there's a flexibility in the system, which I hope we can also look at. One thing is the law: we can look at some of these ideas from abroad about the reverse burden of proof, which will not be a total foreign element in Norwegian law. We can look at practical things, technological solutions, and how we can make firefighters' everyday life and the situation safer. There is clearly a connection between new technology and security at work. How can we raise that level of everyday security? And the last thing I was talking about in the beginning: how can we support, provide support for those affected? I had hoped for a little more ideas along these paths and not so much backward-looking attention around just how the current right is today. We know it – for good and for bad – quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e843	I thank you for the interpellant's articles. I also have a very great understanding of the fire people's case, not least those who have really managed to put this on the agenda, which also the interpellant referred to in his first post, namely Firemen Against Cancer. Fortunately, some of the work has been done, both in the form of more research, which makes it possible to refer to causality, which provides a basis for occupational disease and compensation for occupational injury, but also provides a basis for prevention, for changing routines. Even I've visited the fire service in Bergen several times, which refers to very good routines around this, how they've put about much of what they're doing, precisely with the background of that knowledge. I still believe that the interpellant can agree with me that the right to compensation should be based on documented knowledge, also in the matters of prostate cancer. The fact that Nav treats firefighters' claims according to the same rules as apply to all other workers – a regulation adopted by the Stortinget – cannot, in my view, be seen as an injustice, as the inter-pellant's questions might suggest. In Nav, a nationwide unit, the Occupational Disease Office, treats all occupational diseases. It ensures effective processing, consistent practices and good quality decisions. Decisions are based on external medical specialist investigations and, of course, cancer is a high priority. Luckily, the person who disagrees with the decision may appeal it to the Board of Appeal of Nav in Oslo, and the decision of the Board of Appeal may again be appealed to the Court of First Instance. The proceedings are free of charge and do not normally require the use of a lawyer. The legality of the judgments of the Social Security Court may be brought before the courts of law in legal proceedings. In addition, firefighters who are refused Nav, or who have a claim against them in the Social Security Court, may have the matter re-opened, for example where new research provides a safer medical knowledge base. As I was in my previous post, the judgment of Gulating Lawyers will be dealt with by the Supreme Court until the fall. I think it makes sense that we await the clarifications of the Supreme Court before conducting a comprehensive debate on today's practice related to Nav's treatment of firefighters' claims for replacement due to prostate cancer. Then I would like to remind you that this government, of which I am part, has established in its platform that we want to improve the rules on occupational injury and occupational injury insurance. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is currently working on a plan for this and will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e856	I am very pleased that the interpellant has raised this matter, for this is a matter that has engaged me as an ombudswoman, and not least as a fellow human being. I think there were a lot more than Jon Eirik who was touched to tears when he auctioned off his motorcycle on the Torgallment. It was strong for everyone who was there, but it was also a very important symbol of the fight that was to start. Some have taken it before, others start the fight, some are lucky and have relatives and not least comrades, tjommies and colleagues who stand with you, or continue the fight when you may no longer have the opportunity yourself. But it was very gratifying that the family of Jon Eirik last year was finally believed. It is a powerful symbol of the struggle many individuals know that they must accept the system. I therefore think it is good that we have the debate today. It is quite right, as the minister points out, that something has been done, because I remember that when I took this up at the country meeting of the Progress Party in 2017, we were, I'm not going to say the worst in the class, but we were miles behind other countries that we like to compare with. Then something has happened, but I fully agree with the interpellant that what is hoping for today's debate is that we can talk about where the way forward is going. In line with the Minister, I have also been to Bergen Fire Service and have seen concrete measures that have been put in place, including: This with a much greater focus on clean and dirty zones. I also see that firefighters from the rest of the country have been inspired by it. Here we have a lot to learn, and not necessarily just from Bergen or other places where you've focused a lot on it, but actually from abroad, those who've been betting on it, those that's a completely different place from where we are, when it comes to focusing on cancer among firefighters. Last but not least, I can at least guarantee that the Progress Party will be constructive in the follow-up discussion of this interpellation. But I think it's important today to send a thank you to all those who have taken the fight, and those who are still in the fight. I know that not everyone is here today, but an extra thank you also to Brannmann Mot Kreft, as I know on voluntary initiative put an incredible amount of work to put this matter on the agenda. So a big thank you to you for your efforts, and not least that you push us politicians, for we need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e867	Finally, once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for giving us the opportunity to air some of these thoughts and discuss this in the staging room. I hope that's not the last time we get the opportunity, because this is a matter that we need to keep an eye on. It was really the whole intention too – simply to draw attention to this important matter and lift it up to a political level. This interpellation debate gives us an excellent opportunity to keep us up to date on what is happening in the matter, and that is quite a lot. We've been told that the research that's coming now is very exciting. Sitting down and going through it and updating are healthy for us, and I also think the department in connection with this interpellation debate has gone through the latest information thoroughly. It itself has a self-value. We are now getting feedback that those who follow the discussion out there also think that this is an interesting and topical issue that they want to address and engage in. That's exactly what was hope and intention, and I'm very happy about that. I also hope that the tone of the discussion we have had bears the impression that this is not a classic political debate where, for example, we are. shall strike each other in the head and stab each other and say that one government is so much better than the other. It certainly has not been the intention. Here it's just that we're on the team, every man, we want the best. I will not suggest in any way that there is any major system failure or injustice or anything like that. But I have been concerned that those who fight for us deserve backing and support when they are hit by cancer and end up in a difficult situation, and that they must at least not experience that the system is working against them, but that they feel that the system can be of help and support. Then it's not so much to do from our side to adapt, within the system and the principles that we're building on, but still could make the situation a little bit easier. That was simply the intention. I think we owe it to those who stand in this every day. Thank you again to the person who has been involved in the interpellation debate, and thank you to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e880	I have noticed, and I am pleased, the dedicated posts that have been in this matter. As I said instead, I have a very great understanding of the fire people's case. Let it be clear that the firemen deserve the compensation they claim. Firefighters Mot Kreft has worked over time to increase the impact of requirements for the recognition of disease by firefighters such as occupational diseases under the Swedish Social Security Act and the Law on Compensation for Occupational Damage, and the association has further committed itself heavily to reducing chemical exposure of airways and skin in the crews during fire and rescue operations. It is also one of the initiators of an ongoing research study on the exposure of carcinogens and the incidence of cancer in firefighters in Norway, where the Cancer Register and the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work cooperate to increase knowledge in the field. This is an important work that we have to follow up. However, in a universally popular sense, specific rules are demanding for certain groups of workers, such as: Firefighters, but I don't hear that there's anyone who's been calling for that necessarily in this debate. Therefore, it is important that we continue this work. Nav applies the rules of professional disease in line with the decisions of the Supreme Court. Now, until the autumn, the Supreme Court shall deal with an appeal against prostate cancer by a fireman, and it shall provide the basis for a very strong view today of the understanding of the rules or of the rules, before the Supreme Court has finally established the applicable law in this field. In the end, I want to say that a number of international studies show that cancer among firefighters differs from the presence of cancer by the normal population, and then Nordic studies do not show a completely consistent picture. Overall, therefore, results from studies under Norwegian conditions are also of great importance for the assessment, because fire and rescue efforts may be organised in different ways, and there may be differences in material use, etc. I then stress that the State Institute for Safety and Health at Work, together with the Cancer Register, is in the lead position for a large collaborative study, and there is a very important work related to studies on exposure in the fire sector and the incidence of cancer related to this. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the government wants to improve the rules on occupational injury and damage insurance and is committed to following up the opinions both in the Hurdal platform and in the Stortinget request decision No. 911 of 11 May 2021 in a good way. We are now working in the department with a plan for working on this follow-up, and we will also involve the parties in an appropriate way when we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e893	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e918	Then we go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e930	The President proposed that the statement be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e940	Case No. 2 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-12.ana.ud553e1019	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
