ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e76	Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and Liv Kari Eskeland on leave from 7 March to 13 May – all in order to take a master's course at the Defence College from the representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand on parental leave from 8 March to 10 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus: Tore Vamraak 7 March–12. May For Finnmark: Terje Hansen March 8-12. May For Hordaland: Charlotte Spurkeland March 8-12. May For Uppland: Torleik Swelle 8 March–10. June
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e134	The representative of Ingunn Foss will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e139	On behalf of the representatives of Sveinung Stenland, Mahmoud Farahmand, Anne Kristine Linnestad, Margret Hagerup, Liv Kari Eskeland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for the introduction of the notification obligation in the event of an infringement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e144	The representative, Mr Hemdal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e149	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I am promoting a proposal to abolish the county council members as a body in social and child protection matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e154	The representative, Mr Vervik Bollestad, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e159	On behalf of the representatives of Dag-Inge Ulstein, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure the approval of medical training from the EU and EEA countries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e164	The representative of Liv Kari Eskeland will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e170	On behalf of the representatives of Kari-Anne Jønnes, Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to increase competence in the field of demolition and dismantling. On behalf of the representatives of Trond Helleland, Nikolai Astrup, Helge Orten, Svein Harberg and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on hydrogen as an energy source for trains.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e177	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e182	On behalf of the representatives of Une Bastholm, Lan Marie Nguyen Berg and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal to make energy saving available to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e187	The representative, Mr Sylvi Listhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e192	On behalf of the Progress Party and the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Hans Andreas Limi, Erlend Wiborg, Morten Stordalen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen food security in Norway through increased cereal production as a result of the war in Ukraine. I ask that the proposal be dealt with urgently under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e197	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e213	The war in Ukraine is now shaking an entire world and each of us. A brutal invasion of a large, peaceful neighbouring country has not been seen in Europe since World War II. The Ukrainian people are now fighting a fight for their own lives and for their own freedom, and it is coming near and touching us all. Fathers send the family safely across the border to Poland without knowing if they will see their children again. Rescued people seek together in basements and provisional bombers. 16 dead children and 60 injured children just the last few days were the message from Ukraine's brave president Zelensky when I spoke to him yesterday. The Ukrainian people are now fighting a heroic fight for their country. I have today in particular asked Ukraine's ambassador to come and be present, and I wish on behalf of all of Norway through him to express our solidarity and our support: Ambassador, your people have our full solidarity. [[Minister of State Jonas Gahr Støre's greeting was followed by standing applause in the hall.]] The Ukrainian people are fighting a heroic fight for their country, but they are also fighting for our ideals and our values. They are fighting for peace, for democracy and for a Europe in which we resolve conflicts with peaceful means, not military power. They fight for an international society where rules, not coercive diplomacy, determine the relationship between countries. The battles in Ukraine have now been a week. Russia has seriously underestimated the Ukrainian people and the strength of the Ukrainian defence. President Putin has underestimated international reactions and cohesion in NATO and the EU. Yes, he has underestimated the power of democracy. Democracies may sometimes appear late, but they can also appear powerful when people, politics and states react together. I am still afraid that it will get worse before it can get better. Large Russian and Belarusian forces are on their way into Ukrainian cities. There is an increased use of heavy artillery and class weapons. There's war in, not just outside more of the big cities. This means that we have to prepare for the death tolls of the days and weeks ahead to rise. Even more people want to fly west from Ukraine. They will meet a Europe and a Norway that takes good care of people on the run. The full responsibility for this war and its consequences lies with the leadership of Russia and the co-sponsors of the Belarus regime. Norway condemns the strongest attack by Russia on Ukraine, and we are not alone in this. The UN General Assembly yesterday adopted a resolution condemning Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 141 countries voted in favour. Five countries voted against. The attack is a serious, illegal and long-term violation of international law. Already last year Russia started building up its forces along the Ukrainian border. This was probably part of the preparations for the invasion we now see. We have followed this build-up of strength closely. Our intelligence cooperation with the United States has been particularly valuable. They – and we – have put a great deal of emphasis on the rapid downgrading of intelligence so that the public is aware of the ever-increasing threat to Ukraine. While Russia increased the military threat, they made extensive political demands on NATO and the United States. Most of the requirements were impossible to meet. Nevertheless, it was important and proper to try a diplomatic process. Norway had close contact with the leaders of the United States, Germany, France and NATO, who were at the forefront. But democracies could not have four on the basics; that all sovereign states should have the opportunity to determine their own foreign and security policy. This concerns Ukraine, our allies in the Baltic and our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland. When conflicts threaten, they must be resolved through political negotiations. No continent has as many and good mechanisms as Europe to resolve conflicts peacefully. They are available to all – including Russia. Coordination in NATO and between NATO and the EU has been very good. We're more assembled than ever. This was clearly expressed when I attended the NATO summit last Friday. All Heads of State and Government were gathered at short notice the day after Russia attacked Ukraine. Sweden, Finland and the EU also participated. I have been to many NATO meetings in my time as a politician, but I have never experienced such a strong relationship as that Friday. The EU has also played a crucial role, in particular in punishing Russia and assisting Ukraine. The EU decision-making bodies have worked quickly and co-ordinatedly. The EU's normative, economic, political and legislative powers have never been stronger. Norway has been in close contact with the EU and related EU countries, and the government has placed great emphasis on coordinating with Nordic neighbouring countries and European allies. The unusual build-up of military forces along Ukraine’s borders in the autumn was rapidly followed up by Norway. As early as December, we decided to introduce national preparedness measures. Monitoring and situational understanding in own neighbourhoods were stepped up. We reviewed plans and made preparations to secure key points and our own strengths in Norway. In the new year, measures were introduced to strengthen our ability to withstand cyberattacks. Further preparedness actions were launched during February, both in Norway and in NATO. NATO stepped up its preparedness for the reaction forces of the Alliance and reinforced intelligence and surveillance as well as preparing rapid troop movement across national borders. NATO has also activated its plan. These are important steps that ensure better coordination of allied activities. The sum of these measures establishes a credible and strong military deterrence towards Russia, which it was right and necessary to do in the light of developments. I know that many and especially children are afraid that there may be war in Norway. Then we adults must be clear: Norway is not at war. When Norway sends weapons to Ukraine, it does not make us part of the war against Russia. When we send several Norwegian soldiers to Lithuania and NATO forces there, there are soldiers who are not to be sent to Ukraine. They are there to ensure the security of NATO countries. There is no information now suggesting that Russia plans or sees itself serving a military conflict with Norway or any other NATO country. It is worth recalling in these days that NATO is a defence alliance to defend the Member States, and where there is an important principle between allies: one for all and one for all. However, the war in Ukraine makes it necessary for all NATO countries to be more vigilant, especially in the light of the way in which the Russian President argues in his logic and legitimizes the use of military power. This also applies to Norway, especially because we are there. The Russian President has put the country's nuclear weapons in a better position — an unacceptable escalation of the conflict. Russia has many of its nuclear weapons on the Kola Peninsula, bordering Finland. When Russia increases the protection of its nuclear weapons, it leads to increased military tension and activity in the north. But I repeat: nothing indicates that Russia is worthy of moving this conflict to our areas, but this is nevertheless the activity we closely follow on, on behalf of ourselves and our allies, and it requires intensified military preparedness also in Norway. Therefore, since December, the government has implemented measures that ensure that we follow even better and that we are clear if necessary. In the second half of March, Norway is the host of the military exercise Cold Response. This type of exercise takes place every two years, at regular intervals. It will take place in several parts of Norway but will focus on the area between Bodø and Tromsø. Over 30,000 soldiers from about 25 countries will participate. The practice has been under planning for a long time and is not an exercise that has been able to respond to the war in Ukraine. As usual, we have well briefed Russia on the practice of established diplomatic and military channels, in line with the best traditions. Nevertheless, the exercise has now increased its importance for Norway and NATO. It will be an important demonstration of allied cohesion and strength and will just show that Norway is also part of the alliance, and it is relevant to the ability of the alliance and other allies to come to our rescue. We know that Cold Response will be closely followed by Russia. The defense and NATO are very conscious of the serious backtrace the exercise is taking place against. There is therefore, in particular, close coordination between Norwegian defence and participating forces in order to ensure implementation in a good and responsible manner. This is an exercise under Norwegian leadership. The number of Norwegian citizens registered in Ukraine is decreasing, but there are still dozens of them left. In today’s situation, no assisted exit from Ukraine is possible. The Norwegian Embassy in Kyiv has temporarily moved to Warsaw. The U.D. is in close contact with Nordic countries and with the EU for the coordination of possible assistance to its own citizens. The embassies of the countries bordering Ukraine are ready to assist Norwegian citizens after border crossing. The humanitarian situation in Ukraine is worsening every day the war continues, making a deep impression on everyone who comes along with it. This is a war that's more drawn from the 1900s textbook, but it's happening in the iPhone's time, so what's happening is being documented and communicated. The suffering makes the impression. This applies both to those seeking security in Ukraine and to those seeking security in neighbouring countries. The UN now estimates that one million people are on the run from Ukraine, and the number of internally displaced persons is greater. We can face the greatest humanitarian disaster in Europe since World War II. The North wants to help. Norwegian municipalities report both reception capacity, willingness to receive and heart warmth. Red Cross reports that individuals and businesses all over the country want to contribute. I know that reflects a strong and broad humanitarian commitment to the Norwegian people and in this room. The government has decided to contribute up to 2 billion. kr for humanitarian aid in Ukraine and for people fleeing Ukraine. In the first emergency phase, Norwegian funds will be channelled through UN organisations, the Red Cross movement and Norwegian humanitarian organisations with good networks. We finance lifesaving efforts, food and shelter for people on the run from their homes, and we contribute medical devices to Ukraine. We are ready to contribute more. As part of the Schengen cooperation, we are now following the flow of refugees from Ukraine in close cooperation with the EU. From the start of the war, the position of the Norwegian government has been that we are ready to assist Ukraine and neighbouring countries who have now received refugees, that we should stand up and help those who need protection, and that we are ready – in the framework of European cooperation – to take our share of a distribution of refugees from Ukraine. Yesterday, the European Commission proposed a collective system for the temporary protection of Ukrainian refugees. We recognize that, because during the Balkan War of the 1990s, Norway also established a national collective protection system. There are good reasons to use this mechanism also in the context of the Ukraine crisis. A final decision should wait until we know what the EU is about and how it should be set up. The Minister of Justice and Security is in the process of preparing for increased arrivals in Norway. In the light of the experience gained in the 2015 asylum crisis, the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the police have now strengthened their plan. Nevertheless, I would ask the Stortinget to be prepared for a large number of refugees from Ukraine or neighbouring countries to be difficult to deal with in the short term, but we are going to do that together. There is a long tradition in Norway not to export armaments to countries in war. Since the decision of the Storting in 1959, the main principle has been that Norway should not allow the export of armaments to areas where there is war, where war threatens or where there is civil war. This principle has served us well. The Storting debated in 1967 the scope of the 1959 Decision, in connection with the participation of allied countries in war. A unanimous increase then stated that the 1959 Decision does not ‘aim to regulate matters relating to our own defence and security policy’. It was also made clear that the decision only targets commercial arms exports. It is definitely war in Ukraine. The dilemmas are many, let's recognize them. At the same time, we are facing an extraordinary security policy situation in which NATO and the EU Member States act together. Ukrainian forces are fighting against an invading overpower and have a strong need for military material to protect people and land. The government has therefore sent military material such as helmets and protective vests to Ukraine. We are also about to send the M72 panserver weapon. These are simple-to-use weapons which can be used quickly to defend themselves against attacking armoured vehicles. It's not a simple decision, and before the decision, we had close contact with many countries, especially our Nordic neighbours. I would also like to thank the parties at Stortinget for coming together quickly – twice – to discuss what we recognize is a demanding matter with many dilemmas. I would nevertheless like to stress that this is not commercial arms exports to war zones. There are state donations in an exceptional security policy situation, within the framework that has existed since the 1960s. We neither change nor put aside Norwegian legislation. The EU has adopted historical, comprehensive sanctions packages in the last week that meet, among others: the financial sector, the energy sector, the transport sector and the selected persons in the Russian regime. Similar measures have been taken by the United States. Such measures have also been taken by the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Japan and several other countries. From the Norwegian side, we have worked to ensure that like-minded countries are as united as possible. This does not prevent us from introducing our own measures. The Government has therefore decided to freeze the State pension fund’s foreign investment in Russian financial instruments and to withdraw from Russia. But a broad international response is the most effective. We are already seeing significant consequences of the sanctions for the Russian economy. Then we must also realize that our country will also note the economic consequences of the sanctions imposed. Companies with activities aimed at Russia will be affected. This makes a lot of business in the north, especially in eastern Finland, particularly vulnerable. The government has close contact with the municipalities concerned and will look at how we can remedy the situation. Higher prices of food, electricity and fuel can affect the economy of Norwegian households and contribute to higher inflation. However, there is reason to believe that the direct effects on the Norwegian economy will be limited. Reduced gas supplies from Russia in recent months have contributed to record high gas prices. Very limited stocks of gas in Europe in the autumn were a pre-warning of what came later in the autumn, with limited deliveries. This is also the main cause of the high current prices we see today in Norway, which we have seen in the last few months. If Russia were to stop all gas exports to Europe, this would have major consequences. Gas prices must then be expected to be very high. Temporary withdrawal of Russian gas supplies through Ukraine will be possible to cover through other alternative supplies, but the situation in Europe is vulnerable. In such a situation, Norway will in the future navigate wisely in a landscape where policies and energy are more closely linked. In my dialogue with EU leaders and several EU countries, I have assured that Norway will continue to be a stable and reliable supplier of energy. A faster deployment of renewable energy sources to replace Russian gas and oil will become very important for the EU in the coming years. Norway should contribute actively and heavily where we have special advantages, such as: in carbon capture and storage, hydrogen as an energy carrier and renewable energy production related to sea wind. The war in Ukraine is a time gap. Russia has committed a frontal attack on international law and on the order that has ensured economic development, prosperity, peace and peaceful conflict resolution in Europe since World War II. No matter what happens next, it will be one before and one after this war. We now know that President Putin's Russia – also in the future – can use crude military power to achieve its objectives. It makes this war a defining crisis for our continent and for democracy and the values we want to defend and build on in the future. What we now see, day by day, is a Europe that works more closely together on defence and security policy. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, is probably right when she says that there has been more EU cooperation on defence and security in the last week than in the last 20 years. That's reason to think it's going to last. The invasion of Russia has brought Europe together. The most obvious change has been made in Germany. A few days ago, Germany announced a strong and comprehensive escalation of the commitment to defence in the current year. Germany is now aiming to take on a primary responsibility for its own — and to a far greater extent actively contribute to European — security in the years to come. I think it is good for NATO, for Europe and for Norway. Several countries are likely to follow suit, and we are facing significant investment in the collective defence in NATO. For Norway, developments underline the importance of NATO cooperation for our security. It seems, according to the latest polls on NATO membership, that the Norwegian people have had it heavily with them. The security challenges we face need to be addressed in cooperation with others. NATO membership provides security in an uncertain and potentially more dangerous time. Similarly, our close links with European cooperation and close contact with the United States, the United Kingdom and deepened cooperation with selected countries in Europe and the Nordic countries. I would like to stress here that the crisis should lead to stronger and more binding cooperation in security and defence policy between the Nordic countries. We share values and closeness to Russia. I feel that the will for it is strong in all the Nordic capitals. This close cooperation has been developing over some time. During this crisis it has happened almost daily, in the contact we have had with the governments of the Nordic countries. Yesterday we had our own meeting between Norway, Sweden and Finland, which deepened cooperation and dialogue on what is happening far north of the Nordic region. At the same time, we must have a strong and modern national defence in Norway. In a new time of security policy, it will require more of us. We need to strengthen the defense. We are NATO's eyes and ears in the north. Two days ago, the Minister of Defense and I were with Norway receiving the first modern maritime surveillance plane P8 on Evenes. We'll wait four more. They will be very important to our preparedness. They want to collect information about military activity in our neighbourhoods. Better intelligence and increased presence, especially in the north, will be important for our defence and understanding of the situation. I have asked the Minister of Defense to start work quickly so that the government can come to the Stortinget with our assessments and recommended measures in the spring session. We would like, among other things: look at immediate measures to enhance the response capacity of the defence and the ability to receive allies. In the longer term, the Defence Commission, which is in the process of working, will also make recommendations on the long-term impact of a modified security policy image. The increased tension between Russia and the West also increases the risk of activities challenging our social security, our everyday lives and our daily lives in Norway. The acquisition of strategic activities, the adaptation of research environments to access sensitive knowledge and technology, the identification of critical infrastructure and various forms of impact actions are among the things we already see. Not least we have seen a shift in the pace of digital attacks against Norwegian targets. This complex threat picture is widespread – oil and gas, maritime sector, media, food production, government, large IT providers and yes, even the Stortinget. It doesn't just apply in the current situation we're in. It is a continuing and worrying development I want to emphasise in this statement as well. We have asked the General Emergency Commission, among others. assess the fundamental challenges related to threats such as cyber and energy security. Because Russia is one of the biggest threat actors, we must be prepared to face a stronger security picture in these areas as well. It requires more of us as a society, but also measures and vigilance from us as individuals and from Norwegian businesses. Security will always be part of the big policy, but now it also hits our everyday lives, and we have to take that on board. The attack on Ukraine will also have consequences for our bilateral relationship with Russia. As long as President Putin controls Russia, there is no doubt that the long-term relationship between Norway and Russia has changed as a result of the invasion of Ukraine. Our relationship with Russia has been greatly reduced. The government is reducing political contact with the Russian authorities. This is in line with what other European countries and allies do. The societally critical parts of cooperation are maintained. We will protect cooperation and channels of direct relevance for security and security, preparedness and sustainable management of, inter alia, fisheries stocks in our neighbourhoods. We are neighbours and have to care for the neighbourhood, but in a wide range of other areas, cooperation with Russia will be concluded, suspended or scaled down until further notice. I will nevertheless stress the responsibility we have when we are neighbours. Country does not choose its geography. Norway has lived in peace with Russia for a thousand years. That's a starting point. It's worth remembering that even in the coldest periods of the Cold War, we maintained practical cooperation with the Soviet Union. As a neighbouring country, we must always work for the lowest possible voltage and maximum safety in our neighbourhoods. The West must continue to look for diplomatic, peaceful solutions to the war in Ukraine. Without any contact, it becomes more difficult, now and in the time that comes. So we have to think a step forward. This conflict must finally find its solution. It is important for me in this Chamber and in this statement to stress that our actions and our condemnation are directed against the Russian regime, not the Russian people. Many Nordics have a close relationship with Russia. Many Russians live in Norway. We want contacts between people in Norway and Russia to continue. Fear Children have received several reports that children and young people with Russian parents or of Russian origin are being hounded because of the war in Ukraine. It's unacceptable. It is therefore important that all adults – whether teachers, sports leaders, parents or grandparents – take responsibility for how they talk about what is happening in Ukraine. Kids can hear stories about the truth. They need to hear the story of the truth when, in addition, they see a lot of pictures of what's happening. No children are responsible for the war, and no young people are to be blamed on social media for what is happening in Ukraine. Finally, we are now living through dramatic and musculoskeletal days. Things of importance get a little different grading in such a time. What was important before might become a little less important now, and we need to get together on what's most important. Social media makes war come closer to us than ever. We need to understand to also create a distance. Many, including in Norway, are disturbed or frightened. The war in Ukraine is a time gap, and the choices we are making now will have major consequences. The government is conscious of its responsibility, but I would like to stress that in such a situation, Stortinget also has a crucial role to play. It is a great strength for our country when, across party-political dividing lines, we come together and find solutions that have a broad gulf. I think the Norwegian people are expecting it from us now. Therefore, the government will continue to keep the Storting well informed and involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e337	The President will now, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 45, open a comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e342	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a very good and thorough presentation. Let me first begin by expressing the clear solidarity of the Workers' Party with the Ukrainian people. The desperation and destruction they are subjected to rebels against us all, and the will to defend us greatly affects us. Russia's attack on Ukraine is an attack on democracy and on our values, and it also concerns Norway's security. It is Russia that bears full responsibility for the war and its consequences. We strongly condemn Russia's attack on Ukraine. The Prime Minister has explained Norway’s response – strong responses to Russia and Putin’s regime, support for the Ukrainian people and Ukraine’s legitimate right to defend themselves, strong association with our allies and Nordic partners and strengthened preparedness. The statement clearly demonstrates the strength of international cooperation and cohesion, that cooperation strengthens both our own security here in Norway and our common security in Europe. Norway has joined the EU's powerful sanctions against the Russian regime, for we know from experience that sanctions are toughest when Europe is united about them. In order to stifle the financing of Putin's war machine, sanctions are necessary, but they will also have consequences for the Norwegian economy and for Norwegian businesses. Already now, local communities in eastern Finland report impacts on business and jobs. Then the great community must be with them. And let me stress, there's a difference between the Putin regime and the Russians. It makes the impression that brave Russians take to the streets of Russia, and it is totally unsustainable when children in Norway with Russian connections are being hounded. Russia's unprovoked attack on Ukraine challenges European security in a way we haven't seen since World War II. Ukraine has a desperate need to defend itself. The government’s decision to send military material, including weapons, to Ukraine is not a simple decision. It is demanding and has many dilemmas, which were also highlighted in the Questionnaire yesterday, and which have been discussed in the parties. A large majority in this Chamber have supported the government's decision. Norway has a responsibility to support Ukraine’s legitimate right to defend itself, its people and its sovereignty. It is worth noting the Prime Minister's emphasis on the fact that these donations are made in this exceptional situation within the framework that has been established since the 1960s. Norwegian legislation is neither amended nor superseded. We are concerned about the serious consequences of warfare on the civilian population. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that Russia is now attacking cities and agglomerations with heavy weapons. The statement shows that Norway takes a major humanitarian responsibility to remedy the situation by 2 billion. kr to increased efforts in Ukraine. This support will respond to the alarming needs of the population. From the outset, the government has been very clear that Norway is presenting itself to people who are now fleeing Ukraine. That is the broad support from the parties here on the Stortinget and from the Norwegian people. It is wise for the government to coordinate the Norwegian solutions with the EU, because this is a common challenge that we solve best in cooperation. The acts of war in Ukraine can become more brutal in the time to come. The crisis will have long-term consequences for Norway and Europe. It could require rapid action by the government and also more long-term action. I welcome the broad agreement in this Chamber on the foreign policy line, and for the Prime Minister to stress that the Stortinget should continue to be involved. It is time to stand together in solidarity with the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e370	I will be allowed to thank the Prime Minister for the presentation. Today we are at a crossroads in European history. The peace we have lived in, which we have been able to take for granted, is challenged in a ruthless way. For the civilian population in Kharkiv and Kyiv – and in cities all over Ukraine – there is no peace and freedom. Security has been replaced by bombs, missiles and combat operations. Putin's regime launched its ruthless aggression against Ukraine. In 2014, Russia annexed the Crimea Peninsula and has since supported separatists in Luhansk and Donetsk. This was an attack on a sovereign state, and we now see the attack on a full scale. World society cannot be found in this, and Russian passports for the invasion are fake. For the Right, we believe it is absolutely right to contribute humanitarian aid, military equipment and to receive refugees – and not least to be associated with our allies and many other countries as regards the imposition of sanctions against Russian interests. This is a war, and there are refugees in our neighbourhoods. Norway can and will play an active role in assisting the Ukrainian people, and I am pleased that the government has now interpreted the 1967 Decision so that it also allows us to contribute military equipment. In the terrible things we see now, we also notice that the ideals of democracy live. President Zelenskyj, who I believe has touched us all with his courage and perseverance, repeats that his people are fighting for their freedom and for democratic values. This also applies to the response of the entire Ukrainian population in the critical situation in which they are located. The courage and effort we see is an emphasis on how important defence is in war. It's both impressive and touching to see. This is the time to condemn Russian aggression. In the long term, we need to be aware that the challenges will stand in line – some at home as well. We are in the midst of a propaganda war with false news and attempts to deceive. So far, Russian propaganda attempts have been amateur, but we must now prepare for the fact that there will be more of this in the future. It is important to build our popular defense against propaganda and deception. The war will also have consequences for the Norwegian economy and Norwegian businesses. There we have to help to be predictable. The many Ukrainians who live in Norway need to know that we are on their full side. They have our compassion and support, and we must contribute. But we should also remember that many Russians live in Norway, who have had nothing to do with the aggression initiated by Putin's regime. They also need to be safe here. They shall refrain from receiving criticism or experiencing harassment for negotiations for which they have no responsibility. It must be stated that this is Putin's war, not the war of the Russian people. The security situation around us has changed radically. I am pleased that the government also reports that it will come back and see what consequences it has. We need to analyse the impact this has on our relationship with Russia in the coming years, but also what it has to say for our cooperation with the EU and NATO. Cooperation is in the process of major development of security policy. Europe and democratic states are today united. We've shown that we're able to speak with a common voice, and that we're holding on to our basic values. This is what we assume Norway will do in the future. This is the time to stand united behind democracy and freedom and not least peace for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e395	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. We're in the middle of a serious time. There is war in Europe, and Russian aggression turns out from its worst side. The people of Ukraine experience violence and suffering. It's almost impossible to believe, and I think it feels unsafe for all of us. The Central Party is behind the clear condemnation of Russia’s military attack on Ukraine. The attack is a serious violation of international law. Norway's position is clear: we will be presenting Ukraine in due course. The central party believes it is important that the government has decided to set aside 2 billion in response to the precarious humanitarian situation. kr to remedy the humanitarian situation and help people escape. At the same time, the government is ready to accept refugees in Norway, and I agree with the Prime Minister's statement that Norwegian municipalities have a strong willingness to accept people on the run in today's situation. There are also good reasons for the assessments made on collective protection. The common economic sanctions that Norway is now going to be part of are going to be tough. They're going to notice. At the same time, the Norwegian Oil Fund's funds will also be withdrawn from Russia in a planned and controlled manner, and Equinor will cease its operations in that country. It's important. Over the last week, the government has taken important, but also difficult, measures — measures that have taken some time to assess. Time has been spent to ensure good solutions that can also be held responsible in retrospect. One of the assessments concerns the export of weapons. Following consultations with the Storting, the government has decided to donate arms and other defence equipment to Ukraine. The central party supports that decision. No one can really say today how this war is going to evolve. The picture changes day by day, and the Central Party therefore believes that this is not the time for experiments or surprises in Norwegian foreign and security policy. We must be predictable and recognisable in the security policy. In Norway, we have usually used to gather on the security policy course. We've sought consensus. There has been a line that has contributed to strength in difficult times. That is why the time we are now facing is also a time for discussion and trust across party boundaries and for good decisions with broad support. The Central Party has consistently held that NATO is a carrier of Norwegian defence and security policy. The cooperation with our NATO allies is evident in these days. In addition, strongly anchored Nordic foreign and security policy cooperation is a foundation for our military security, and the need for close contacts with both our Atlantic and European partners is also evident in these days. I want to underline what the Prime Minister said about the need to strengthen our national defence. I also believe that in the future there is a need to strengthen civil protection and food security in Norway. There are also areas where I hope it is possible to discuss with great confidence across the party boundaries – how we can increase the production of food in Norway, both food grain and other foodstuffs, and how we can raise civil protection in our country. The Russian war against Ukraine also has implications for the bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia, including in the northern regions. We are reducing contact with the Russian authorities, and it is important that we cooperate with our allies on sanctions and the hard line against Russia. At the same time, I would like to stress what the Prime Minister said that we need to protect some channels for dialogue that are of direct importance to national security and security. So it's important to say, as several of the speakers here have pointed out, all the measures that are now being taken are directed at Putin. They're directed towards the regime. They are aimed at the authorities of Russia, not at individuals who come from Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e418	Thank you for the presentation. The fight against totalitarian regimes must be repeated, whether it be communism, Nazism, fascism or Islamism. Unfortunately, Russia's history is a story about the privileged few who rule and oppress the many, a story full of ruthless violence against their own people, and it is a story where human lives are of little value to those who rule. Russia's war in Ukraine is profoundly a war between dictatorship and democracy, a war between a despot and a legally elected president, a war between coercion and freedom. For us who grew up in the 1980s, the fear we now know is recognizable. During the Cold War it was an underlying fear of war, and for many years we have believed – or hoped – that this could not happen again. Putin is the first since Hitler invades a country on our continent, and it's a historic moment we'd like to be in front of. It's important at this time to stick to two main principles: we have to stand on the right side, and we have to stand together. We are with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. We support those Russians who dare to challenge the despot. We are working with Europe and with our allies in NATO and partners in other parts of the world. We admire and are impressed by President Zelenskyj. We see a brave head of state and a brave people fighting for their freedom and for their survival against a despot and a superior military power. For the Progress Party, the fight against coercion, impunity and dictatorship is absolutely fundamental. For the Progress Party, it is freedom for the individual that is absolutely fundamental. We support that government so far. We support the government sending weapons, even if there is something we do not take lightly. We're supporting that it's set by 2 billion. Dr for humanitarian aid, but believes that this allocation needs to be increased by a further 3 billion. kr. We are a small country, but we are Russia's neighbouring country. That's why it puts us in a special position. The NATO alliance is fundamental to our security and our freedom. That's why we're going to help strengthen this and stick with our allies. And it's scary that SV and Red will report Norway out of NATO. Norway's defence budget and its commitment to defence must be strengthened in the coming years. The war challenges us in many areas. Ukraine and Russia are among the world’s largest exporters of cereals, and several actors have warned of a potential global food shortage. It can destabilise countries and regions. For this reason, the Progress Party is proposing today that we should take action in Norway and ensure increased cereal production. It now doesn't hold with words from the government; it's important that the farmers know what framework conditions are going to apply, so that we get them to produce this when they're about to start working on the spring. Ukraine is our neighbourhood. Then, together with the rest of Europe, we must be involved in taking a special responsibility. That is why we must also address refugees. Despite many warnings, Europe has reduced energy production in order to achieve symbolic climate targets and make itself more dependent on Russian gas. In this way, power and influence have been transferred to Russia. There has been a serious error, there are several people now admitting. And the Foreign Minister yesterday showed in the Questionnaire that several of those who have been critical of Norwegian oil and gas production have now turned around and see how important we are to the energy situation in Europe and to be able to reduce Putin and Russia's power. In Norway, the parties that want to shut down the oil and gas industry are firmly committed to an irresponsible symbolic climate policy that will in reality increase the power of Russia and other countries in the field of energy. The Progress Party believes that we need to take responsibility, launch the 26th Round of concessions, take care of the task that we now have as an important energy country in Europe, and not let the SV and others set the course of this policy. We're facing a new era that we thought was over, where power goes right ahead, and where what we thought belonged to history has become a reality. We have to prepare for a more uncertain world. We must fight for peace, security, democracy and freedom. It doesn't come of itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e439	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a very good statement and for giving us the opportunity to have the strong moment when the Stortinget accepted Ukraine's ambassador. There are some pictures from the last few days that I think illustrate well what we're facing. One is the United Nations vote on the condemnation of the invasion, where the four countries associated with Putin were Syria, North Korea, Belarus and Eritrea. It is the pictures from Moscow of five children aged 7-11 years who were taken by the police when they brought posters with messages of peace and wanted to put flowers at the Ukrainian embassy. These are also the pictures from Kharkiv and other Ukrainian cities where residential areas and schools are bombarded with increasingly heavy shooting. The more difficult it turns out for Putin's forces and conquer the country, the more brutal the warfare becomes. All this – the brutality of the attack on Ukraine, the brutality of the repression of the war resistance in Russia, the boisterous gathering of friends Putin has left in the United Nations – says everything about what kind of war and what kind of regime we're facing. This is an empire war. It is not a country that is out for security, but a ruler who is about to subdue and take control — a great power that takes care of itself and sets Europe back a long time. It's a regime that now seems like it is: an aggressive and oppressive dictatorship, where one man makes the decisions, where repression strikes all those who protest, and where war and violence against neighboring countries are a method of holding to power. That is why this war in Ukraine is about democracy against dictatorship, small state against power, international law against lawlessness. We can't stand by and watch. Norway must contribute to the pressure against the Russian authorities and with the help of Ukraine. It's about pressure against the oligarchs and the Russian elite holding the regime up. There are severe financial penalties. I am pleased with what the government does and has signaled within oil and gas. This concerns the exclusion of Russian banks from the SWIFT system. This concerns the need to intensify the fight against tax havens because we know that tax havens are now helping to weaken the effectiveness of sanctions. The Russian elite has a disproportionate share of its wealth in tax havens. This concerns the need for emergency assistance. SV warmly supports the 2 billion. kr the government has already notified. We need to be ready to contribute significantly more. It's about setting up for the refugees. This is now becoming the fastest refugee stream we've seen in recent times. Women and children are, to a large extent, coming, and Norway must be prepared to take its share of responsibility without any thanks. SV is very positive to the idea of collective protection. I would also encourage the government to follow up and to have contact with the countries of Eastern Europe in order to prevent discrimination by what is also our outer border through Schengen cooperation, and to be vigilant in view of what we can do with the reports that are now on right-wing extremities that are hunting for refugees with a different colour of the skin than white in these areas. Ukraine has the right to defend itself. SV supports sending military protective equipment. It is, as the Prime Minister also stressed – in a very honest way, I think – real dilemmas associated with sending arms. A majority of SV have refused to send weapons now, but at the same time expressed an understanding of the government’s decision. There are different views of us, as it is of the people, but it's only about different views of what role Norway should take, not about different views of what the task is. The task is solidarity with Ukraine and resistance to the war. So it's easy to make a competition where lots can overwhelm each other with proposals for action. It can also sometimes be tempting to create the impression that the government is reluctant to do too much or is spending too much time. I'll encourage all of the Biggest parties not to do that. There are some assessments that require more thorough reflection if they are to be carried out than if it should be a press release. There's a lot that's at stake, and then there's a strength and a value in itself that we can stand together as much as possible in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e458	Red condemns the brutal international attack by Russia on Ukraine, and there is no doubt: the Putin regime stands for 100 pst. responsible for the war. They refer to the invasion as a special military operation with what they call peacekeeping forces. We're not fooled by that propaganda. The Russian invasion is a war of international aggression that no rhetoric can cover. The responsibility for the attack war, for the bombs that now strike soldiers who defend their country, who hit civilians, women, men, children and the elderly, are on their own on the Putin regime. There are no arguments, no security interests, no spheres of interest or other pretexts that can exonerate international war of aggression and the enormous human suffering that the war brings. That is why Putin must also be held accountable. There is a need for a consistent defence of a rule-driven world order, which is particularly in the interest of smaller states, and thus a consistent resistance to international law-enforcement war. We want Norway to ratify the additions to the Rome Statute, which gives the International Criminal Court jurisdiction to investigate and also to judge leaders of international law-enforcement wars, and that such a provision is included in Norwegian criminal law. If adopted, Norway may issue an international arrest warrant against Putin. The result is, of course, up to the investigation and the courts, but let it be said immediately: we want to see Putin behind the lock and fight for this crime, and we want Norway to do everything we can to contribute to it. Then it is important that we gather on the most accurate and powerful sanctions and measures possible, which affect both Putin and the oligarchs around him where it swirls. In addition to international sanctions, Red will also release the oligarchs from the Norwegian oil industry. The economic elite that keeps Putin in power shall not be rewarded with money from Norwegian base oil. We stand together, in solidarity with the Ukrainians. They need emergency help, money, medical equipment. We need to find ways both to continue and increase assistance, even if the occupation would make it more difficult to access supplies in the future. Now millions are fleeing from the merciless Russian attack, which affects more people every day that goes. Red has proposed to give the refugees collective protection, by model from the way we helped Bosnian refugees in the Balkans. Norway must take its share of responsibility and also accept our share of them as refugees from the war. In our unison condemnation of the Russian attack, it is important that we remember one thing: this is the war of the Putin regime. Usual Russians are not our enemies, and now many in cities all over Russia are protesting against the invasion. There are thousands arrested to stand up to the war. The Russian peace movement, which is shoulder to shoulder with its Ukrainian sisters and brothers against the war of the Putin regime, also deserves our support, from Norway. Our goal is to stop the Russian aggression, save human lives and prevent the spread of war and Europe and Norway becoming a battlefield in a major war between nuclear powers. We must strengthen the peace movement, strengthen international law and ensure that it is enforced, so that major powers cannot use military power to force their will on others without being held accountable. Norway must then strengthen our national defence capabilities. We need to relocate and modernise the invasion defense, which was built down in favor of warfare in other parts of the world. Finally, the Russian bombs can destroy TV stations and residential homes and kill innocent people, but neither bombs nor tanks can stop the Ukrainian people's will to resist the invasion and win back freedom and independence. It should inspire us. Whatever happens on the battlefield in the next few days, no matter how long Russia has its brutal warfare going on, we must promise ourselves and the people of Ukraine never to give up until Putin is forced to retreat from Ukraine, until they have regained their independence, and Europe has regained peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e477	I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for coming to the Stortinget and explaining the government's policy towards Ukraine. That both he and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have chosen a line where they are open to assess all possible measures, I think is wise. As elected representatives, we have a responsibility to give the government a broad mandate to support Ukraine and to support our NATO allies in the region, and I am pleased that, as an opposition, we can contribute constructively to Norway leading in its support of Ukraine. What we see and hear from Ukraine now is very dramatic. We see men and women who once lived a normal life, who now defend their freedom with arms in hand. We see mothers and fathers who have learned how to make molotov cocktails – and who throw them – families as refugees from Russian attacks, and people who live in huge bombers built for another war. There is no doubt that the Ukrainians carry the heaviest burden today. That is precisely why I am pleased that the Prime Minister shows the willingness to support them both with weapons and with emergency aid. The Ukrainians fight bravely for their own and for Europe's freedom, but they cannot defend themselves with molotov cocktails alone. Ukraine needs weapons. The Norwegian contribution so far will undoubtedly be an important contribution, but I am afraid that this is only the beginning of a longer war where Norway has to set up several times in the future. In addition to weapons, Ukrainians also need financial support to buy what they need to defend themselves, and economically Norway is in fact a major power. I hope Norway can contribute more financial support, also to buy weapons. My proposal has been that we first contribute a one-off payment of 1 billion. kr. The EU has also set up a dedicated defence fund under the European Peace Facility. The whole idea of the fund is to give the Ukrainians quick and effective access to support that can be used to acquire the weapons they need to defend their own freedom. I think we should see if Norway can not join the EU fund and contribute through it. I was happy to hear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not a stranger to this assessment during yesterday's Question Time, and I hope that this is a way Norway can contribute. We now know that every hour counts for Ukraine, and it is important that our support comes into place as quickly as possible. Ukraine has asked for weapons, they have asked for emergency aid, but they have also asked for support to stop Russian cyberattacks. Ukraine already has an impressive ability to avert such attacks, but Norway also has capacities to help stop attacks on critical societal functions in Ukraine. I therefore hope that the government will look at the possibility of sharing Norwegian cyber capabilities with Ukrainian authorities. The same applies to intelligence, and there has been a desire from Kyiv to share more intelligence that can help maintain the defence of Ukraine. Since Norway is the eyes and ears of NATO in the north, I am convinced that this is an area where we can contribute more. I want to commend the Prime Minister for two things in particular: that the government has fully supported the sanctions that come from the EU, but also that they have taken action to freeze the investment of the oil fund in Russia. I believe that it is absolutely essential that Norway join forces with the EU in the sanctions, but also that we dare to put in place our own measures where appropriate. We have a Norwegian base that has over time been interesting for Russian economic interests. We have a banking sector that is close to the Russians, and we have ports that are used daily by many Russian controlled ships, whether it's about the luxury yachts of the oligarchs or ships dealing with raw materials. Therefore, it is important that we also look at whether we can exclude Russian companies from Norwegian base, deny Russian ships calling at our ports or deny our financial institutions the possibility of acting as correspondent banks for the large Russian banks. There are no simple balances in a situation like this. That is why I am pleased that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are open to assess all measures. It is a great responsibility that now falls on the back of the government, and I am convinced that cooperation with the Stortinget will lead to better solutions, while strengthening our democracy. Right now, in this time, there's an independent point. This is not the war of the Ukrainians, it is not the war of the Russians either – it is the war of Putin. Our liberal sister parties in Russia and Ukraine are both fighting this war, some with weapons and some with demonstrations. They share the understanding that this war is not going to create any winners. Everyone loses in this conflict. In the future, we must support all those who understand that this is a war without winners, and stand shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainians, who are now fighting for their freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e500	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good and touching presentation. The Greens believe that in the short term, the government is handling this disaster in Ukraine properly. I am pleased that the government has already announced a great deal of support for humanitarian action, and we support the sanctions that the government is going through. One thing must be clear: all Ukrainians who want to flee to Norway must be welcome. In the long term, the most important weapon for peace and freedom in Europe is international cooperation. Therefore, we in Norway have to go much further than we are used to in order to support and cooperate with distant and close neighbours on solutions that are good for us, but which are also good for them. Sending weapons to a nation in war is a very difficult decision for all of us. It violates Norwegian custom, and it violates the Greens' principles of peace policy. However, the Green Party has decided to support Norway’s granting of arms to Ukraine. When a people have followed all the rules of peace and diplomacy, but are still under attack with weapons in their own country, it is our moral duty to help them defend themselves. The Ukrainians are asking for weapons. Unfortunately, we have to give them weapons. The Green Party is pleased that the government has been very quick to examine what own measures Norway can contribute in addition to the international, oil, state pension funds abroad, etc. We ask that this work be carried on without any gnawing. We also support Norway to discontinue cooperation with Russia in the vast majority of areas, including in fields such as: sport. But the Russian people are our friends and neighbors. They too suffer from the repression of the Putin regime. The freedom of the Russians and the possibility of democracy must also be an objective of our support for the Ukrainians. That is why I am skeptical about sanctions in one area: culture. Cultural cooperation maintains the ties with the Russian people and facilitates the development of relations with Russia when Ukraine is free again. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Culture has left cultural life to decide for itself to what extent cultural cooperation should be slowed down. One of the few areas where Norway makes a difference in Europe is energy. Energy is also one of the main factors in the conflict in Ukraine and Europe. Building cooperation and peace in Europe now has to become an overall goal for Norwegian energy policy. Putin's attack on Ukraine has made it scaryly clear to Europe how unsafe it is to be dependent on fossil energy. A small sign of this is a leaked German government note that sets full renewable energy power coverage as a target by 2035. Of course, in the short term, Norway will deliver everything we can from gas to European countries that need it, and we should do it cheaply. But on Monday, a new UN report reminded us that the threat of climate change is as real as the threat of war in Europe. Unfortunately, the climate problem does not disappear, although there is also war in Ukraine. A long-term Norwegian peace policy is therefore a policy that contributes to the resolution of both these crises. Those who now propose to step up Norwegian oil and gas exploration to deliver more fossil energy to Europe in two, three or four decades, point out a political course that is the true opposite of what Europe will choose. That is exactly the opposite of responsible climate policy cooperation. What Norway needs to do is to make renewable energy one of our most important contributions to a safe Europe. We must say yes to increased energy cooperation and increased transmission capacity for power between Norway and the EU. It will increase energy security, for both Norway and Europe, strengthen international climate action and strengthen the basis for long-term peace. Immediately, the objective of the planned Southern North Sea II Marine Window Building needs to be greatly increased and the decision to send electricity production only to Norway needs to be revised. This is not the time to turn your back on Europe. People have to pay a price in war that is unbearable. When it happens near us, we are aware of it. When it happens far away, we're less attentive, but it's just as bad. The heroic struggle of the Ukrainians against Putin's unrelenting attack touches and scares us far into the heart, and it makes new demands for us. Now we have to show that we're willing to deliver what we need, we too.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e524	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a good presentation, and thank you to the ambassador who is here. I hope he takes the heart heat from both this house and the Norwegian people. A total increase is associated with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Equally unison is the condemnation of Putin's invasion of his own neighbor. The Russian attack is illegal, unprovoked and not least unacceptable. We see that the war demands more and more civilian victims. Several thousand children, women and men have already lost their lives. It's heartbreaking! The responsibility lies entirely with Putin. The judgment of history on Putin's actions will be hard. After a week of this senseless war, it's hard to see that Putin has achieved some of what he wants. Russia has not yet managed to overthrow the Ukrainian Government. The resistance has been much greater and stronger than Putin predicted. The Ukrainians have mobilized, and the will to fight is great. Putin has not received any concessions from the West. On the contrary, we experience a more united and united EU than ever before. We also see a more interconnected and resolute NATO. In his own country, Putin encounters limited but still advisable criticism. Russia has the international experience of being pushed into the cold. The economic sanctions are beginning to be noticed, and most of the European and American airspace is now closed to Russian aircraft. At the same time, the statements of support flow into the Ukrainian people, and the Ukrainian President is recognized and admired for the way he stands up against the Russian military and up against his people. That's not what Putin saw separately. And the development is that Putin is also being pressured. A humble Putin can become even more dangerous, even more brutal and even more reckless. Among other things, we see: nuclear arms and threats to countries supporting Ukraine. The more important it is that Europe, the United States and the democratic countries stand together and stand up against the Russian aggression. Putin’s invasion forces not only attack Ukraine’s independence, its territorial integrity and their democracy; they also attack the entire European security system. It's a battle against peace that we've taken for very many years, and a battle against our security and human dignity. Ukraine’s fight against a fully superior military power is also a struggle for democracy, freedom and fundamental European values. That's why it's our duty to help and support Ukraine, with both money, food and health care, and we have to follow the promises we make about humanitarian aid. We have to offer to accept refugees. It's not enough to say that we're going to contribute when we're asked. Norway must go ahead and offer that we accept. I am grateful that very many municipalities want to accept refugees. The action must be followed up with good contact with the municipalities in order to raise the reception capacity. People are willing – solidarity and heart space are great, and municipalities have capacity after the refugee crisis in 2015. There is also a temporary collective protection law, which worked in the 1990s. Russia can at any time put down its weapons, and the war will be over. But if Ukraine loses its weapons, they lose their freedom, their autonomy and their democracy. One post has been widely shared in social media lately. This is about the President of Ukraine and his inaugural address in 2019, where he should have said: I don't want pictures of myself in their offices. The President is not an icon, an idol or a portrait. Hang up a picture of your children and look at them every time you make decisions. I think that is a good advice for the political decisions that will now be taken in Europe and in this Chamber. We need to keep our kids and grandchildren in sight – the freedom of our children, the security of our children and the peace of our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e552	I want to thank all the parties for a good round, good post. The message coming from this round is that there is a broad consensus between the parties on the Great Britain about what we now stand in, the reading of the situation, that we have an attack war in Europe, that there is a violation of international law, and where the responsibility lies. I also feel that there has been a broad consensus on the reactions that Norway chooses in this situation, the political responses to the condemnation of what is happening, the sanctions that we are part of, the aid that we provide, which is both economic, humanitarian and military, and the humanitarian role that Norway plays, where we have a long experience, and that Norway is also working with other European countries to deal with the refugee crisis. I want to say something about the framework in which this happens, because it is important for who Norway is and how we act. As far as sanctions are concerned, it has been important for the government to do so in cooperation with the Nordic countries and Europe. Here we have EEA, here we have the economy we're part of. When we're going to think about financial sanctions, it's natural to think about it in the context of countries that are quite similar to us. With regard to humanitarian matters, European cooperation will also be important, for example: the principle of collective protection. It is important that several countries agree on this, on the main principles of how we help Poland, Slovakia, Romania, the countries along the border, and how, if necessary, a key to the distribution of these countries. The issue of discrimination at borders into Europe was addressed, depending on the colour of the skin, etc. We are aware of that, we are dealing with that with the European countries in the cooperation we have there. It is also good to hear in this debate that we have a good and realistic understanding of security in a broad sense. Of course, it concerns the security of Norway, our territorial security, but also to greater social security, against what we call complex hybrid threats, the total defence, the Commission that is reduced, the cyber challenge – and food, as it was said. This is a matter of concern to the government, that we should now, in cooperation with Norwegian agriculture and agriculture, think about how we produce in Norway for the needs we have, even in a situation that changes. It is a specific role related to energy, which was addressed in several of the speeches, and I also noticed that a week ago in meetings with European leaders. Norway is associated with energy. As I said, energy and politics now become very closely linked, and that's not strange. In Norwegian experience over the last 50 years, we have focused on separating energy and politics. We produce and sell our energy, and we don't police it. We practise a state pension fund abroad, adopted with rules here in Stortinget, but operating out in the markets in a predictable way. It requires a wise balance from us. We're going to be at our gas deliveries. But there is no misunderstanding: Europe's commitment is on renewables. That's where they have a big problem. Germany and their ambitions were mentioned. All countries see that they need to increase their renewable share now when nuclear and coal are falling. There may be adjustments in this at the time you are in, but there is no doubt that this is the way they are going, and Norway is also going to be there. That's what they're asking for. And that is where the long-term relationship between this security policy crisis and climate policy becomes important, and it is also important how Norway acts in relation to cooperation with Europe. The thing about being prepared for 55 pst. In fact, cut in 2030 – and all that has to say for the economy – is of great importance right here. The government is aware of its role and responsibilities in foreign policy. I stressed the importance of close contact with Stortinget. I fully agree with the representative Lysbakken in the wisdom that we are spending time. Although some decisions need to be taken quickly, we should also have time to think carefully about the consequences of what is now happening. It is important to act in a way that makes us focus our efforts on the right place, where it has the effect, adapted, and that what we do is anchored in our values, that they are clear and not to misunderstand. This is a time of increased tension in which we shall avoid misunderstandings of intentions and actions. It is important for a country like Norway that what we do is done with other people. We have good allies, we have good partners, we live in the Nordic region, which now draws more together, and after this debate I feel that we have good tracks to work with. I emphasize how serious the time we live in is, but is strengthened by the relationship we now have across the parties in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e569	The comment round has thus ended. The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on the war in Ukraine be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e588	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e595	I would like to begin by thanking the rest of the members of the Committee and the Committee Secretary for the cooperation in dealing with this matter. Today, we are debating SV's proposals on wage moderation in the state, where it is proposed that the Stortinget ask the government to propose that the ceiling for total remuneration for employees in the state, including any supplements and pensions, should not be higher than the arrangements that apply to the Prime Minister at all times. We also discuss proposals from SV that the Stortinget ask the government to introduce a wage cap for leaders in the state of 15G and the wage freeze for current managers with wages above this level. The Committee had planned a hearing, but unfortunately the hearing was cancelled when no hearing body notified itself. The Committee's position expresses the views of the various parties, and I assume that the parties will explain this for themselves later. Five proposals from a minority are being made today. There has been an incurrence, Red should have been included in the proposals No. 1 and 2 from SV, so together there are five suggestions from a minority. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the Committee's recommendation here today is promoted by an overall committee when we ask the government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner when the sample to review the government's management pay system has presented its report. It is also important that the Committee's position and comments here state that 'there is a cross-political consensus among the parties on the Grand Duchy that moderation should be demonstrated in wage developments among high-wage leaders in the State'. Then I will take Red's comments on the matter that is being dealt with. Public sector managers are those employees in Norway who have had the strongest wage growth in the period 1997 to 2020. It shows the conclusions of Jørgen Tveit Sandberg in a master's thesis he delivered at the Institute of Economics at the University of Oslo in 2021, which takes account of the wage development of over 40,000 public sector managers. In general, the wage growth of public sector leaders in these years was 64 pst. It is high time to reverse this trend, because we know that differences in Norway are increasing. And yes, we have over 115,000 children growing up in poverty in this country. Government leaders today have an average wage of 1.2 million. kr, we could read in the newspaper on 21 February, and that is NOK 100 000 above the director level of the private business. Red believes that the state cannot be a pay-leader. Cutbacks in government executives will be an effective measure to balance pay differentials between those who earn the most and those who earn the least in the country, but also to send out an important signal that the government will have a wage policy under control and not out of control. Norway has not benefited from the development of public sector leaders into a separate payroll, and I note that the government today – and kudos for it – warns that the sample to look at government executive salaries should also consider measures to reduce pay differentials. I should like to commend the government for this, but already today there is an urgent need for measures to slow down the pay gap. Therefore, Red proposes: ‘The government is asking for immediate wage freezes for the heads of the state’s management system to be implemented pending submission of the report to the government’s board of directors’ remuneration.’ [[SLS]] And let me remind you that the wage freeze for leaders in the state is something also representatives from both the Workers' Party and the Centre have talked about hot before the big shot, when they were in opposition. It is important to look at this with a whole of central government, state-owned companies and state-owned enterprises, for the salaries of the jointly-owned and state-owned companies and companies have shot, and there is also a need for immediate action. At the end of February, it was known in the media that the group leader of Statekraft, for example, can make 4.4 million. NOK by working in a 50 pst. position. Think about it for everyone else in the world who fights every year in order to get a full job, for example. those who work in the health sector or those who work in the food industry. Sadly, though, it turns out once again that there is a great difference between Jørgen’s hatmaker and King Solomon. Therefore, today, Red asks that: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines on remuneration and other remuneration for senior employees of government-owned enterprises and companies, in order to take into account that companies in which the State is a majority shareholder shall follow the government’s guidelines on remuneration of directors.’ Red also proposes: «The government is asked to ensure that the use of variable remuneration and bonus schemes is limited, and that the amount of pension schemes and termination benefits for senior employees on the government's management system in the country, enterprises and government-owned companies are reviewed with the aim of reducing the total remuneration.» [[SLS]] We need to get control of this pay gap. With this I take up the proposals from Red as referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e636	The representative of Tobias Drevland Lund has then addressed the proposals that Red has made on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e641	This is an important debate. The differences in Norway are large, and they are increasing. There is no doubt that the case is important for the Labour Party-Center Party administration. We have made it clear in the Hurdal platform that we want to establish new guidelines for rent wages and other types of evidence in the state. It is nice to receive praise from the Red Party, as we have said in the context of the discussion of this matter that we will update the mandate of the selection to deliver its report for the summer, in the light of the Hurdal Platform. So it is good to see that the Council of State has already today updated that mandate in line with what we have said. For the government party, it is important that we support the fact that the system of remuneration, salary levels and wage developments for senior managers are carefully looked at and assessed, just as the Council of State has replied to the committee. The government also has a notice that one will use the state ownership to promote the interests of the community, to have moderation in rents and to greatly reduce the use of bonuses in private companies where the state is a whole or a part. The Government Party is concerned that this will help to reduce the pay gap in society. We also have a very offensive Minister of Industry, who, very shortly after the Workers' Party and the Center Party came into office, sent a clear letter to 26 companies where the community through the state owns axes. It is also important for the government party that, through normal processes and within the framework of the stock laws, we will work to promote moderation in the wage settlement of companies where the state is a owner. The government manages the ownership of 71 enterprises with a total value of nearly 900 billion. kr. The state ownership is the property of the community, and the people's axes must be properly administered. I am pleased that the government is preparing a new ownership message, and there is one going to come back to more concrete measures on how to contribute to the moderation of wage developments. I would also like to refer to the Council's letter of reply, which states that wages in the state, which is part of the State tariff area, are governed by the main tariff agreements and also by central and local special agreements. There is a point in the debate that at least a majority of the Committee is concerned about remembering that there is not one party to such negotiations, nor is it relevant for a majority in the Committee to support proposals which intervene in the wage negotiations of the parties. It's a proposal that deals with retirement. We have also received answers from the Council of State, which indicates that the maximum age pension focus is already at 12G. It is also not possible to discuss challenges with leadership without talking about health services. This is what we have shown in the configuration. We have a Minister of Health and a government that is concerned about moderating here. We cannot allow the health sector to be wage-leadering. We believe that wage developments among top managers in health care agencies also need to be assessed in a holistic way, that recruitment needs to be viewed against other considerations, and that a person must make assessments that deal with areas of action in excess of wages, in order to make the positions attractive. At the end of the day, I am pleased that there is a joint committee that wants the government to come back to Stortinget in its own way, once the government's report has been delivered by the government's leader-paying selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e658	It's almost surrealistic to discuss leadership wages in the state after the introduction we had to-day today, but that's now the way it is. Leader pay in the state engages, and I am pleased with the broad consensus that is in the committee and that has been shown in the comments. In March 2021, the Solberg Government set up a sample to review the national management pay system and, as I said, the sample will deliver its report in June this year. That is why we in the Right believe that it is entirely premature to deal with the issue of wage moderation for the heads of state now, and we therefore made proposals in the Committee that the government should come back to the matter when the sample has submitted its report. The right agrees with the Council of State, which in its reply to the Committee refers to the fact that wages and salaries in the State, which are part of the State tariff area, are determined on the basis of the core tariff agreement and central and local special agreements. These are negotiated agreements, where the State is one of several parties. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the government's assessment that, consequently, it is not possible for the State unilaterally to set a ceiling on compensation for government employees who are paid under these agreements, and that the majority will not support proposals which intervene in the parties' wage negotiations. Within the State tariff area it is approx. 200 senior executives and business managers, of which approximately 90 is remunerated under the main tariff agreement and the rest is on the central government's management system. It is the Ministry of Local and District Affairs that sets out the guidelines for the government's management pay system. Per now the maximum salary is 2 million. kr, this limit has not been adjusted since 2015. Senior executives who are not on the central government's management pay system are remunerated under the core tariff agreement. The right will not in any way impose on the State a unilateral measure relating to the top managers who are remunerated under the core tariff agreement, which is therefore negotiated between the social partners. We look forward to the government returning to Stortinget in an appropriate way when the sample to review the government's management pay system has presented its report. In addition to the representative who said about the change of mandate, I would just like to say that the sample is to assess both pay model, guidelines and practice, and as part of this work, the sample is to compare groups in both the private and public sectors. The mandate was also established in cooperation with the main group, and they are also the reference group for the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e671	Big economic differences are poisoned by a society. This is precisely why it is important that the state and our publicly owned enterprises take precedence over pay policies as good examples. We see that someone draws a lot from society today, and that contributes to an inequality we haven't had in Norway before. Most of us like to present Norway as a country with small differences, and we underline the importance of just that. It's a picture that's going to hit serious cracks. When we in the state see a violent growth in the number of leaders in a short time, and that their wealth and salary levels in government and state-owned companies are skyrocketing, yes, then we have to take political action. Clear signals must be sent. The government has also addressed this problem, which has been mentioned from here today, and we expect a quick settlement with this unculture. I join in the praise that has been given by the work that has begun, and I hope that we will just have a settlement with the culture where leaders in state businesses and departments can serve more – yes, much more – than the Prime Minister, who, after all, has the highest responsibility, does. There are few jobs that require greater responsibilities, skills, work capacity and not least the willingness to make demanding decisions than the Prime Minister in a country has. It is therefore reasonable that this job is paid at the very top of the pay ladder. But that's not what we see. There is now a record of higher wages than the Prime Minister. Five years ago, this was the number of people. 100, but the number of those with higher income than the country's top leader has now passed 300. It shows a development where we get top-heavy structures with more and more directors to solve our government joint tasks. In addition, when they have had an unparalleled wage development, it seems completely incomprehensible to those who work at least as much, who have a great responsibility both for people and for money, but who get a fraction of these million salaries into the account each month. We're now at the end of a pandemic where we've become painfully aware of how many societally critical problems we have to solve, and not least what level of pay most of the jobs are actually at. Then it is unmusical that more and more leaders of community funds have fixed wages, bonuses and pension schemes worth millions. We need skilled managers to lead our innovative big businesses, but SV is convinced that we can recruit them at a much lower pay level than what we see today. This is a waste of public money. SV is therefore promoting this proposal for a representative, and we had hoped for the support of a little more parties so that no one would earn more than the country's prime minister, our top leader. At the same time, we appreciate that a job has been started, but we can already send out quite clear signals about what we politicians want. With this I will address the proposals available from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e686	The representative Grete Wold then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e691	One of the characteristics of Norwegian society and Norwegian working life, and one of the reasons we have had small differences between people in Norway, is that we have had small differences in wages compared to most other countries. In contrast, over the last decades, there has been an increase in the pay range here in Norway. The distance between those with the lowest and those with the highest monthly salaries has increased significantly, and that before we take into account bonus and different pay arrangements in addition to the normal pay. In 2017, the monthly salary was 10 pst. the best paid 3.5 times the average salary for the 10 pst. the least paid. 20 years ago, this ratio was 2.8. This development is unfortunate. For the Centre Party, therefore, there is no doubt that we need to take action to reduce pay differentials in Norway. It is essential that we be able to reverse this trend if we are to be able to maintain a society with high trust and small differences between people. This is why the government has already implemented and notified a number of measures against high leadership salaries in the state. The Central Party and the Workers' Party have been clear that we will use our state ownership to promote the interests of the community, among others. through moderation of management salaries. As early as autumn, the Minister of Local and District Affairs therefore sent letters on the government's view of wage policy to the directors of 26 companies in which the community through the state is a shareholder. The work must, of course, be done through normal processes and within the framework of the Share Act, but a clear signal that the new government has a clear ambition to promote moderation in management wage settlement is important. In its reply to the Committee, the Minister has been very clear that the government focuses on public sector management salaries, which was made clear by the fact that some of the first Minister of Finance Trygve Slagsvold Vedum did back in October, was to alert wage freezes for government tariff leaders. These are good signals from the government and are in stark contrast to the attitude of the previous government towards government executives. Work is well under way on new guidelines for management salaries and other government remunerations. The committee to review management salaries shall complete its work in June and the government has notified a new ownership notice for the 71 enterprises owned by the State. Here, management salaries and, in particular, the use of bonuses will be central themes. In the near future, this will provide a good opportunity to take good and thoughtful action to reduce pay differentials in Norway. Seeing the government's announced measures in the context of the clear objectives of the Central Party and the Workers' Party that government wage developments should not exceed average wage developments in society would constitute a strong package of effective measures. Both the governance signals already given and the statements of the Minister of Finance show that this is an area where the government will give priority. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party's political project are about reducing differences between people, both socially and geographically. We're going to make everyday life easier for the nurse at Finnish and the guardian at Furuset. And then it is right, important and necessary that governments use more of the means they have in government wage policy to reduce — not increase — the differences in Norway. I am pleased that there is agreement in the committee that we will come back to this matter when the committee has presented its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e712	Let me begin by stating that the trend in government leadership pay should follow the normal wage trend in society. Unfortunately, this has not been the case for some years. It is therefore important to follow developments closely and take action where necessary. The Hurdal platform states that the government will establish new guidelines for executive salaries and other types of remuneration for managers in the state. We also want a searchlight on measures that contribute to reducing pay differentials. I have noticed the discussion about whether a general ceiling should be set on the total remuneration of employees in the country. I must stress, as others have also pointed out, that wages in the State are determined on the basis of the core tariff agreement, as well as in central and local special agreements. There are at least 200 top managers in the country where about 90 are paid under the main tariff agreement. Regulations of the main tariff agreement also regulate the pay and employment conditions of these managers. These are negotiated agreements in which the country is one of several parties and it is, of course, not possible for the country unilaterally to set a ceiling on compensation for its employees who are remunerated under those agreements. It is not permitted to give hidden benefits to managers in the State tariff area beyond the stated salary, and the maximum benefit base for retirement is 12G. This benefit base is the same as for other employees in the country. The premises of the representative proposal refer to state enterprises and wholly owned state companies. I then remind you that health companies, state enterprises and state-owned companies are not part of the state tariff area. It is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries that has drawn up guidelines for remuneration and other remuneration for senior management of enterprises and companies with State ownership. Employers' responsibility for managers in the municipal sector lies, of course, with the municipalities. In March 2021, as mentioned in the debate, a panel was set up to review national leadership salaries. The selection shall review the management pay system and assess the strengths and weaknesses of current policies and practices of the system. The mandate has been discussed with the main groupings of the country, which are also the reference group for the sample. In the light of the Government Platform, we have now given an extended mandate to the Board of Directors. The committee shall also make proposals on how the government's management pay system can contribute to a reduction in pay differentials. Pending the conclusions and recommendations of the sample, it is not appropriate to freeze the remuneration of the management pay system in addition to that already contained in the existing guidelines. The central government management’s wage system is based on an agreement with the parent associations. The top managers who are not on that system get their wage development in line with the main tariff agreement. I will therefore engage in dialogue with the main associations on further follow-up when the report of the Executive Committee is available. The wage negotiation model and the implementation of the settlements are based on the need to adapt wages to the competitive sector over time. We refer to this model in everyday language as the front-line model. The frontal model implies that the growth of earnings in competitive activities is to be considered as a norm for other areas of negotiation. Government leaders are on the same line as government employees are also part of this model. The Norwegian model and the mindset around the front stage model have served the country well. I will therefore send later in our letter to all the departments where it is clear that this year's wage adjustments for those in the management pay system and other top managers will be within the front line. In line with the Committee's setting up, the government will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner when the sample to review the government's management pay system has submitted its report.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e737	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e743	I would like to thank the State Council for a good review of the matter, but it is too tempting for me to ask questions about when the Stortinget can expect feedback from the government in the matter. We know that this selection has now been working for almost a year. Will the new extension of the mandate affect it in such a way that it takes longer? And if so, when can you expect the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e748	As the representative says, the sample has now been working for a while, and it is provided that it will deliver its setting now before the summer. I do not see that the additional mandate given should have a significant impact on progress. Then once the selection has delivered the setting, we'll go through it. I also mentioned that we want to have dialogue with the parties, with the main associations, to discuss it, and we will come back to the Storting properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e755	Thank you for a good account and not least for your willingness to contact this area. The issue today is an attempt from SV to slow down a development that I think most people are experiencing unfairly, and it also shows the speeches from the pulpit today. We see an increasingly high-end central government, and it's not just fixed wages, we're also talking about bonus schemes, remuneration, pension schemes and amounts that are clearly unfair. So my question to the Council of State is, what means does the Council of State see that he can be willing to use? How clearly do you want to go in order to get control of this unculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e762	First, there's a sample that just goes through the whole here, and I think it's a wise way to do it. It is also anchored with the main associations. The mandate is wide and has become even wider now, after the additional mission given by the government, and it is natural to await the proposals that lie there. But then it emerged in the debate that the Minister of Economic Affairs has already given a clear and clear message to the companies under him. I have also reported that we are looking at different measures, including notifying that the collective bargaining process in our area will be carried out in line with the front-stage model.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e767	Thank you very much for your answer. I think – with more – I'm a little curious about the state council's position on how concrete you can go in. How much does the Council of State think it's reasonable that top leaders in the state can earn? The proposal thanks the Prime Minister for his salary. Is there any government council thinking is a reasonable salary level for a top executive in a state-owned company?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e772	In the case of state-owned companies, I will not go too far into it now, except to refer to what the Minister of Industry has already done, and what will be taken up in connection with, among other things. the ownership message. With regard to the State tariff area, there is no doubt that a salary level in line with the Prime Minister is a high wage level. There are also very few who lie above it – and then just a little bit. There is now a ceiling within the government’s 2 million head pay system. kr, which has not been adjusted for enough years. This means that some of the best paid in the state tariff area today actually have a real wage drop year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e779	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State, and it is good that the government today announces that the mandate of the Board of Directors is being extended to include proposals on how the government's management pay system can contribute to reducing pay differentials. Nevertheless, my question to the Council of State is: Is it the case, as the press release today states early on about the mandate of the sample, that it would be relevant to compare the level of pay in activities organised as enterprises or state-owned enterprises? And you'll also see in the sample devices on bonuses and allowances overall, because that's the total level of this that poses a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e786	With regard to the sample working on this, the mandate is broad, and they should also compare and look at the relationship between the public and private sectors. When it comes to the issue of bonuses and stuff like that, I have shown in my post that the basis for that in the state tariff area is not there. There is an ordinary salary and there are, in addition, limits on the pension base of 12G. I guess that's what I can say about it. But, as I said, I believe that the sample mandate that we have now made even wider provides the basis for addressing the questions the representative raises, and then we will come back to it once we have seen the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e793	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e812	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e821	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. It is an overall committee which recognises the need for a registration system for the duties and financial interests of state officials. The proposition points to the fact that the population of Norway has high confidence in central government and the rules of the Stability Act should initially be sufficient to ensure that those who prepare matters and take decisions in the administration are not inhabitable. At the same time, it is not unlikely that the duties, financial interests and investments of the members of the staff may lead to commitments or special interests likely to lead to a conflict of interest or loyalty between the private involvement of the member and the interests of the undertaking. The trust in central government and the individual administrative body could be influenced by whether the employees are perceived to have ties or special interests due to financial interests, responsibilities, additional work, etc. The Ministry has previously drawn up and sent a proposal for a central guidelines for a registration system for the employment and financial interests of civil servants. The proposal was part of the follow-up to two request decisions. The Ministry concluded that a possible system of registration should not be confined to ministerial councils but also apply to other servants of the State and therefore promoted this in the hearing. In principle, the proposal for a registration system for the employment and financial interests of civil servants was made as a guideline for enterprises to choose from the right of management of employers. The majority of the Committee points out that the amendments to the State Employees Act should provide a sufficient legal basis for businesses in the country to be able to oblige employees in specific positions to register their employment and the economic interests they have, while a minority considers that the registration obligation must apply to all employees in the country. The amendment is important to prevent and prevent conflicts of interest, and the Committee believes that the legislative changes will contribute to more transparency, transparency and trust in the State. The legislative proposal will provide a sufficient legal basis for businesses in the country to be able to require employees in specific posts to register their employment and the economic interests they have, but it is for each establishment to assess whether it is necessary to establish a registration system and, in that case, the posts to be required to be registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e836	Thank you very much for your input. It's actually not that much to add, we're a couple of people. The changes in the laws we deal with today, including yours. a result that the previous government followed up a decision in Stortinget based on a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV, and it is good to note that we are now looking back at work from the previous period. In matters relating to registration arrangements, the Labour Party, as many other parties, I believe, is very concerned with privacy issues, and I want to highlight what is also in the vote, that Norwegian legislation and also the EU data protection regulation are very clear when it comes to deleting data. I want to mention it, because it has our commitment and questions related to it, and I'm referring to what's mentioned in the setting. It is also important to note that this bill has led the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to provide more detailed guidance on the scheme. In the case of the hearing rounds, which was also referred to by the case-speaker, we in the Labour Party and the Centre Party intend to entrust the department with carrying out its work on the registration system through the administration of the establishment, in order to ensure a proper assessment of the need and the possible introduction of the scheme in the individual enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e845	The Ministry of Local and District Affairs proposes to include in the bill a legal basis for the establishment of a registration system for the responsibilities and financial interests of civil servants. This is a follow-up to a request decision of 12 April 2016, where the Stortinget asks the Government to consider whether similar rules applicable to the registration of the financial interests of government members should also apply to ministerial councils. The Ministry has concluded that the registration system should not be limited to ministerial councils but also apply to others in the country. We're very satisfied with that. The statutory body shall provide a sufficient legal basis for establishments in the country to be able to require employees in specific posts to register their employment and the economic interests they have. The aim of the proposal is to prevent conflicts of interest in central government and to maintain and increase confidence in central government in Norway through transparency of the positions and financial interests of employees. Trust is and will always depend on transparency. In the proposition, the government has focused on balancing the following considerations: ensure that we have high confidence in the administration in Norway both today and in the future prevent conflicts of interest in central government; ensure transparency of central government; at the same time take into account the right of State employees to private life; I believe it is important that media organisations and trade unions be involved in the preparation of the guidelines that will result from this amendment. As stated in the proposal, people in Norway today are fortunately very confident in central government. This is absolutely crucial. People's willingness to pay taxes and to be part of and contribute to the community is based on the good management of the Community's interests. One of the most important Norwegian elected representatives is to help maintain the trust between people and the trust that people have in the state. Without maintaining confidence, we are also unable to take care of the welfare state in the future. The centre party believes that the various considerations are well balanced in the proposal, and I am pleased that a clear majority of the committee is united on the central point of voting in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e875	The importance of trust cannot be overestimated. A high level of trust between government and the population is one of the characteristics of our society, and it gives us space for action, and not least opportunities for development. It is important not to reduce this, and there is always a risk of not having laws and practices that ensure transparency, transparency and control. The proposed amendment to this legislation is therefore welcome from the SV. The need to register and get an overview of the roles and financial interests of managers and key stakeholders is fundamental to ensuring such trust in the administration. Change of laws is important. It will be able to prevent conflicts of interest that could affect decisions in the administration, and we therefore, of course, support the proposal for a representative. This must then be viewed and assessed together with the trade unions, so that it does not lead to disproportionate interference in the privacy and privacy of individual employees. However, SV would comment on a restriction in the proposal, namely that all businesses should themselves assess the need for such a registration scheme. SV believes that it could have a reduced effect and not create the level of trust that we want and rely on. Therefore, a better arrangement would be to require all persons in key positions, not all employees, to register their duties and financial interests. In that case, the individual business would not be able to opt this out by managers who should register their bonds themselves. SV therefore supports a proposal that the Stortinget asks the government to come back with a bill that obliges the entire central government to establish such a registration system. A common register covering both managers and others with central roles and tasks in the management should be established. Only by having a general system, an expectation that all those who may have an interest in addition to authority, where there may be a conflict, can the necessary transparency be ensured. As the Norwegian Journalist team writes in its input into the matter, it is important to have a central and open register for this information that is searchable, as it is for other officials. SV supports the intention with the proposal, but also promotes and maintains minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e884	The representative Grete Wold has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e889	Red is committed to strengthening the transparency of administration. We are committed to broadening the regime and giving it more transparency and democracy, so that the public is made more transparent, and with better control over administration. The public’s transparency of the interests of employees in state enterprises may be an important part of that transparency, and we therefore meet a legal framework to allow state enterprises to exercise this type of registration. At the same time, Red is concerned that the social need for such registration must be carefully weighed against individual employees’ demands for privacy and privacy. Weightings around which employees are to be registered, and hence the interests to be recorded, should not be carried out at the level of activity. I am afraid that such a system will create too many variations in registration, and that such random data collection will not give a true picture of the situation of interest. Red will support Norwegian Journalists’ input into this matter, that an overall register is preferable to local registers associated with each activity. The red also refers to the perceptions of Norwegian civil servants, where they support the obligation to register financial interests, but at the same time consider that such a scheme is a very serious interference in the privacy of employees and that a delimitation of who may be subject to a registration scheme must be made clear in the legal text. Finally, I would like to refer to the minority proposal from Red and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e902	It is essential to prevent conflicts of interest in central government and thus to ensure trust. The proposed provision of the State Employees Act provides the legal basis for the establishment of the State to register the duties and financial interests of employees in specific positions. Registration may only take place where it is necessary to take account of the responsibilities and work of the undertaking and the position or function of the staff member. In general, those covered by the registration scheme will be managers or members of a management group, but in some cases also employees at the level of case handlers. The proposal is accompanied by two request decisions. Activities in the country are different. They have different sizes and varying tasks and responsibilities. Therefore, there is also a difference in the risk that employees may experience conflicts of interest and the need for businesses to register them. It is the companies themselves who know well enough about the responsibilities and tasks of the employees. The proposal is therefore based on the fact that the enterprises themselves are required to assess whether it is necessary for them to record the employment or financial interests of individual employees and, in that case, the posts to be covered by that scheme. This is the solution that is most accurate and ensures at the same time that registration only takes place where necessary. The legal framework and the guidelines will together create a system that ensures that the employees' duties and economic interests are recorded where necessary, while at the same time safeguarding the privacy of their employees. Similar cases shall be treated in the same way as possible. The Ministry of Local and District Affairs is therefore required to provide guidance on the implementation of the registration systems in the establishments. The guidelines shall provide guidance on the elements to be taken into account when assessing when it is necessary to impose a registration obligation and what it should cover. The guidelines shall also provide guidance on individual data protection provisions. In line with the Committee's comments, the government will involve both the trade unions and the media organisations in the preparation of the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e911	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e928	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e935	The message we are handling today is the third in the series of forward-looking flashbacks that have replaced what was previously the treatment of the Sameting Annual Report. The Communication was presented by the Solberg Government in June 2021 and has the main theme of the activity of living Sami communities. Telemarksforschungs Regional analysis for Sami area 2020 shows a decline in the population in Sami areas over the past ten years. The analysis states that depopulation and population decline in these areas are one of the greatest threats to the preservation of Sami language, culture and way of life. That is why I am pleased that a Joint Committee decides that active district policy is important for strengthening and developing Sami communities and Sami jobs. A decentralised education provision, a focus on the local services, such as school, kindergarten and leisure activities, and an active industrial policy are important to ensure living communities in the Sami areas. The Workers' Party-Centre-Registration has announced a new course in rural policy, with the strengthening of the municipal economy, strengthening the instrument, building growth agreements and the requirement that rural policy considerations should be maintained throughout the public administration. Centralisation must be stopped, and economic development should be facilitated throughout the country, with particular attention being paid to municipalities with a decline in population. The reindeer is one of the supports of Sami cultural conservation. The government is clear that we are going to develop reindeer management with a three-fold objective of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability, as well as to facilitate increased value creation linked to reindeer management through the further processing of reindeer meat, cultural dissemination and tourism based on reindeer management. A more active rural policy in all areas will be essential for the preservation of Sami culture in the years to come. Lack of broadband capacity is another challenge in Sami settlement areas. The Hurdal platform states that we should ensure access to high-speed broadband by 2025 for all households living in permanent dwellings. It is a prerequisite for language teaching for those who depend on distance learning, and many cohabitants live outside the Sami administrative area. All the Sami languages are on UNESCO's list of threatened languages. Suffering and lulesamish are very threatened. Therefore, follow-up of the NOU Heart language is absolutely crucial. We have to do something about the lack of learning material, and not least the lack of language teachers is completely insensitive. I am therefore pleased that there is now a commitment to decentralised education, and that the government announces that next year's big news of Sami language, culture and society will have competence building as their main theme. The message will of course be developed in close dialogue with the Sameting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e954	Nutrient development and social development belong together, especially in the districts. In order to exploit natural resources, it is essential that we facilitate good social development in all parts of the country. The notification shows that, like other districts, the Sami areas face major challenges of depopulation and population decline. The policy of centralisation in recent years has also made a great deal of sense here. An active business is essential for viable Sami communities. A clear district policy with measures to create housing, focus on the close services, such as kindergarten, school, health and leisure services, is important for strengthening Sami communities and Sami jobs. The government is clear that district policy needs to be strengthened and renewed, and that a policy for stronger communities, growth and development should be pursued throughout the country, where the city and country go hand in hand. It will respond directly to the challenges of the Communication. Purification is the clear leading industry in Sami regions. It is also essential for the Sami language and culture. The Hurdal platform is clear that we are going to implement a power cap for Sami language and a national Sami cultural promise. We're going to help train more Sami-speaking teachers, pre-school teachers and health workers and ensure enough Sami learning materials of satisfactory quality. New training laws are now being worked on, where the Sámi challenges will receive good attention. This law becomes important in order to ensure a good framework for working in municipalities with language training. Sami culture and cultural memories are also important in identity building. It has recently been very enjoyable to see the Sami culture presented in ever-new forms of expression. It's very good that Sami cultural treasures are brought back to where they belong. We have seen examples of this also recently, after important historical cultural treasures are brought back after several hundred years of alienation. The Sami museums are important in the preservation and dissemination of the Sami cultural heritage and are an arena for the transfer of traditional knowledge. I will again take the opportunity to congratulate the Sámi Museum of Sámien Sitje at Snåsa on its new building, which is ready to welcome the audience in a short time. Being responsible for the indigenous population is an enrichment, but also a great commitment. Norway shall be a leading country for the rights of indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e973	Report. Art. No. 37 for 2021–2022 is, as the rapporteur said, the third in the series of forward-looking progress reports on Sami matters, and the year’s notification concentrates quite correctly on the nutritional basis of living Sami communities. Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Northmen and Samer, and both peoples have the same right and right to develop their culture and language. Linguistic, cultural and social diversity is an enrichment for the country, and it is important to preserve and further develop Sami languages, culture and society as part of Norway’s common cultural heritage. Primary industries such as reindeer farming, fishing and off-road industries are important language and culture providers and have a central place in the Sami areas, but the Sami communities need more legs to stand on. A broad range of activities and a greater diversity of jobs contribute to increased value creation, creativity, creativity and knowledge, and a diverse range of business activities with a wide range of professional choices could contribute to more young people moving back to their Sami home municipalities after completion of education. There are many adults who need new skills, continuing or continuing training, and these are often in work or have family. These inhabitants have limited opportunities to study full-time on a campus, especially if the campus is located in central areas. It also points out that young people moving to higher education do not move back to their place of residence. Therefore, the Right believes that decentralised and flexible education is an important offer for both young and adults in the districts. One of the measures to achieve this is to ensure full Sami training provision. The government of Solberg presented a strategy for decentralised and flexible education, and the Right assumes that the government of Støre continues to follow this strategy. Together with the Left Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party, we ask the government to create a plan to further develop decentralised education in different disciplines and social areas in the different Sami areas, and to return to the Storting in an appropriate way. With that, I'm going to deal with that proposal right there is a part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e986	The representative Anne Kristine Linnestad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e991	The message we are about to deal with today is important. It's important to all of us. A society is strong when we have many legs to stand on, and when we have a diversity and respect for our history and our common culture. The Sami language, culture and social diversity are enriching the country, which we have not always appreciated. Thus, as a nation, we have a great responsibility to preserve and further develop it. But this cannot be done without active involvement and on the premise of the Sami people and the Sameting. It is therefore important and essential that they have had a central place in the preparation of this large document. All good intentions, actions and plans require real investment in several areas. SV therefore refers to its alternative budget, where Sami targets are set at 38.5 million. NOK, which would have been well and well spent in the current situation. In order to succeed in this work, considerable efforts in the Sami language, so as to ensure adequate language skills, will be absolutely necessary. Sámi reports show that this has not been adequately addressed today, and it will require action. SV will therefore underline the need to develop decentralised training opportunities in subjects and social areas, including the Sami language. In this work, it is important that it is made in line with the skills needs signalled by society. It is gratifying that the Communication takes into account the priorities of the Cohesion Fund in the field of industrial development, and that particular attention will be paid to young people and women in the further work. Nutritional trends depend on traditional industries, and reindeer management is the cornerstone of this work, but new developments, with new forces that see future opportunities, will be crucial for success into the future. The communication takes up a broad description of Sami industry and culture, and this is also seen in a context. The culture and speciality of the indigenous population are presented as a resource into smaller industries, such as art and culture, but also in view of the possibilities of tourism. In this context, the development of digital infrastructure across the country will be important. It could provide opportunities in smaller places, which in turn will provide a population base and jobs for more. We cannot say anything about this subject without mentioning natural resources – nature’s importance to the indigenous population. As regards the management of nature in wind power, mining and other sources, we must listen to all opinions and thoughts so that the voice of the Sami people is heard in the same way as other interests. SV also supports the proposal for a process to re-establish a crisis centre offer in these areas – a crucial and important offer. The message has to be followed up, and we are looking forward to this being continued. I would like to include the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1008	The representative Grete Wold has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1013	Data protection plays an important role as a vigilance in the public domain, and it is an important promoter to protect the individual’s right to privacy and privacy. The data surveillance, like most others, was influenced by the pandemic, and it seems to me as a wise decision that the supervision adapted and exercised more flexibility and discretion in the situation in which it was located. Nevertheless, the supervisory authority carried out data protection responsibilities in a good way, exemplified by their criticism of the first stoppage app, which had significant weaknesses in terms of privacy. The data protection criticism had direct consequences and ended with a new app, which later satisfied important conditions. There are just such examples of the importance of data protection. They take care of the people when politicians sometimes go too fast. Data protection has been important and will continue to be important in the years to come. We need an oversight of professional weight that can hold back the authorities when it goes too far. Historically, the largest parties have been very poor at safeguarding privacy and the right of people to privacy. We have seen this when the large parties have joined forces and agreed to the data storage directive and extended the police surveillance authorisation, and in a number of small and large cases that have been promoted before, and more that are now in the hands of the government. Impacts on privacy are far too little assessed and discussed here. In many of these cases, the Data Protection Authority has been in line with the Left and has been a clear voice in order that the fight against crime by the authorities should not be at the expense of the privacy and privacy of ordinary citizens. In an increasingly digitised world, the need for parties that stand up for the right to privacy will grow. It is good to know that the Data Protection Authority is also following it up and monitoring that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1022	Attention and awareness of privacy are increasing as society digitises, and that is good and necessary. The pandemic has given us a fresh understanding of the possibilities of digital tools. At the same time, digitisation can challenge privacy, especially when technological developments are taking place very quickly. Therefore, it is essential that good data protection assessments are made when new digital solutions are put in place. This must include, inter alia: thorough safety assessments must be carried out and it is necessary to ensure that no more personal data is collected than is necessary. The use of personal data must take place legally and responsibly. Sometimes, however, it can be difficult to know how to proceed. The data protection legislation is both comprehensive and complex, and with the emergence of new technologies, new issues are emerging. The Data Protection and Artificial Intelligence Sandbox of the Data Protection Authority is one tool that can help reconcile innovative development and protection of privacy. Because the results of the sandbox will be public, actors outside the sandbox can also learn from the findings. The growing data economy is characterised by large technology companies and business models based on extensive use of personal data. We have to recognise that we cannot solve all data protection challenges nationally. International — and, in particular, European — cooperation is essential for finding good solutions. Cooperation between the European Data Protection Authorities is important for the effective enforcement and interpretation of the Data Protection Regulation. It is also necessary to cooperate with consumer and competition authorities, as the data economy has increased the overlap between privacy, consumer protection and competition challenges. Joint European cooperation is also necessary for the development of new regulation, which can contribute to addressing the challenges posed by the global data economy. The Data Protection Regulation requires the transparent processing of personal data. Transparency is a prerequisite for individuals to have as much privacy as possible. Transparency is also a prerequisite for ensuring the essential trust in digital solutions. In the digital age in which we live, an open societal debate on privacy trends and privacy challenges is also important more generally. The Commission for Data Protection, which is to be delivered for the autumn, will be able to provide us with more insight into this. The study will hopefully provide the basis for a good debate on privacy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1035	No one has drawn a line. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1043	Our country is one of the world's most digitized, and the Nordics have a high level of digital competence. This offers great opportunities and at the same time challenges. It's e.g. essential that the use of personal data, particularly in the public domain, takes legal form. We have to be able to trust that our information is not shared. Norwegian citizens generally have high public confidence. This trust must also be maintained in this area. Children and young people have limited assumptions to understand the extent of consenting to the sharing of personal data. Security solutions and knowledge are particularly important to protect the privacy of children and young people. Young people today grow up with the world available at some keystrokes. It offers great opportunities, but also less privacy and a risk of abuse. Information from children and young people’s online use is worth too much. On the website www.dubemender.no, which is run by the Data Protection Authority and the Education Directorate, young people learn about privacy, network and digital judgment. The central party and the Labour Party in the government work to support young people online, to protect citizens from digital surveillance and influence and to impose stricter requirements on the sharing of data by private companies. Our democracy cannot be taken for granted, nor in the digital space, it must always be fought for. Therefore, it is so important that the Hurdal platform has announced a selection to look at what we need to ensure democratic control over digitisation, and that Norwegian data remain in the country and provide value creation in Norway. For the Centre Party and the Labour Party, it is not an alternative to sit still and wait for the major technology giants to steer the development in a direction that does not serve Norway or democracy. The State must be actively involved in the development and defend the rights of Norwegian citizens on an arena which is not equally accessible or transparent to all. One example is that the government will support Norwegian network actors in the competition against international major players. Another example is welfare technology, which can further develop healthcare for the benefit of patients, health professionals and citizens when used wisely. Increased digitisation and technological development present privacy challenges. At the same time, the government determines that correct and good information is a prerequisite for freedom of expression. Then we need to ensure in the Grand Duchy that the law provides greater social security within the framework of human rights and the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1060	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1077	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be up to seven lines with replies from members of the government, and those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1084	First, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. In this case, legislative changes are proposed to help counteract physical and physical stress, in particular against children and young people. On several occasions, the size of the population has been concerned about increasing pressures among children and young people as social media in particular have become more and more influential. When I went to high school, there was nothing called Instagram or TikTok. We didn't have YouTubes with hundreds of thousands of followers. But today's youth is just a click away from faces and bodies that are not real, but made as if they are. Appearances bottom in a thought about what the perfect body or the perfect face should look like, and is a desire to look like that on its own. While social media have had an explosive growth, the number of cosmetic interventions, injections and treatments carried out and carried out has exploded. But the legislation has not followed. In 2018, the Finanzavisen wrote that the number of clinics operating with fillers and Botox treatments had tripled in the last six years, from around 70 clinics in 2011 to over 150 clinics and over 100 individual companies in 2018. And while Botox has been defined as a medicine and thus has had to be injected by health professionals, it has not been the stuffers, even though the side effects can be much more serious. If a filler is set wrong, it can lead to blindness. Nevertheless, there are several examples of basic training courses that claim that anyone can set up fillers after two days of training. We've seen examples of cosmetic injections being carried out by people who don't know what they're doing, ordered home to people who don't know what the content is, and where the injection is put at home. It can't be like that. Today, we ensure that cosmetic injections, interventions and treatment that can cause side effects are carried out only by health professionals. We introduce the 18-year limit for cosmetic interventions, injections or treatments that do not have a medical justification. It's about time. The job of reducing body pressure and giving children and young people in particular some strength to resist such pressure must also be done through other things than changes in the laws of the United Kingdom. Nevertheless, these changes are necessary after the Right View, and it is good that they come into place. We are an almost unanimous committee, but I assume that the various parties present their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1103	Social media, series, reality TV, influencers, Instagram – we see it everywhere. We see how we're going to look, what's the perfect ideal for all of us, especially those who are young, and it's independent of gender. And if we don't look like that, we get a very quick recipe on how we can do something about it. Google can be used, for example: looking at how to get better. And then you can get a recipe on how to get better in 21 days. That's the reality we live in. I am very pleased with what the rapporteur has now explained, and that there is such a great deal of consensus about the changes we are now making. It's an important grip we're now taking. The fact that we're changing the law to introduce skills requirements for who can do this type of interference, and that we set an age limit for this, is important. We're doing that now, so it's an important step. The working party has always had a strong commitment to doing something about the body pressure in society. That is why we also promoted an important representative proposal in 2018. For this with body pressure among young people today is a major problem, and it threatens mental health. It can lead to mental ill health. It's said that fillers and Botox can do a lot for your quality of life, but that's not the way it is. It focuses on being thin, but you shouldn't be too thin. You have to have big lips, but not too big. You never get perfect enough, and you never get nice enough. And you can always do more. It does something about the quality of life if that's what we're going to focus on, and since you've got mental health from this, it's already gone too far. It's about what attitudes we have in society, how we settle this, and how we make sure you can have free life even when you're young – and how we make sure that those who are young today realize that they're nice enough just like they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1114	I would like to join in everything that has been said, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the case spokesman for her very good contributions and not least the briefing on the substance of the matter. The Health and Welfare Committee is standing here in almost gathering troops when one is now setting up and presenting to the Stortinget. One has worked well across the dividing lines to ensure a better regulation of the extent of cosmetic interventions, injections and treatments and to introduce real skills requirements for this very purpose. Regulatory regulation will be an incredibly important input in preventing and counteracting body pressure. We know that many young people experience strong social pressure and peer pressure, and that to a large extent this concerns body and appearance. I would like to highlight the age adjustment that is currently available. One would introduce an absolute lower age limit of 18 for cosmetic interventions, injections and treatments that do not have a medical or odontological basis. In this context, today’s legislators will state that it will not be accepted for parental consent before the age of authority. This clarification is important – perhaps the most important aspect of the legislative change. Another important step is to introduce clear competence requirements for personnel. This will increase the safety of long-term good health and prevent serious injuries, diseases and other complications. There will still be a basis for observing and analysing developments, even after these legislative changes are now in force. It is important that Stortinget sees this matter in conjunction with, among other things. legislation on marketing and exposure in society. Here's the obvious context. A common commitment from us, which today, will ensure better quality of life for many. In particular, this will affect our common mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1127	We live in a society where many young people know about character pressures, beauty pressures and body pressure. You have to have most friends, look the best and do it the best at school. It's not without reason that we call today's youth "generational performance". There is no doubt that this is a challenge in society and that it requires different solutions. Several parties believe that a ban on advertising can solve some of these challenges. Had it been that simple, we politicians would have had a much easier job. I don't think a ban on marketing will solve any of the world's things. Ideals and pressures will be experienced in a number of arenas – not just from advertising posters. It is rather important to work with awareness-raising, self-satisfaction and healthy ideals. In Norway, we are all different, with different colors, shapes, opinions, grades and friends. And no matter who you are, in one direction or another, you're of course as much worth. It is positive that more stringent requirements are imposed on health professionals performing cosmetic interventions, injections or treatment. It's about putting the patient in the center, and you can be sure you're in good hands if you want to do this. At the same time, I believe that there is something fundamentally wrong with the fact that politicians in this room think they are better qualified to decide whether a person of 17 years can have a cosmetic treatment done, than the person himself and parents or superiors, who can discuss and decide it together through good conversations. I think it is inconsistent that young people under the age of authority, as several parties actually want to get voting rights from 16 years of age, can be adorned with permanent tattoos, but not have a cosmetic treatment carried out with the consent of their parents. This is a matter that families and individuals are finely able to decide between themselves, and nothing that we as elected people should decide for them. That is also why the Advance Party is not part of the position in this case. The Party considers that patients under the age of 18 alone should not be able to give valid consent to cosmetic interventions, injections or treatment without medical or odontological justification. But we also believe that patients between 16 and 18 years of age, together with their parents or others who have parental responsibility, should be able to give valid consent to this. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1142	The representative Morten Wold has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1147	We live at a time when the beauty rule is waging with young people and adults. We see that young people and adults are meeting more and more unattainable demands on body and appearance. If it's not in the advertising posters outside the T-Bahn stations, it's right on the mobile in different apps and with different possibilities. When almost all of the models in fashion and social media advertising are reticent to the inhumane, it says something about how the ideal is: impossible to achieve, but possible to strive for. It creates a strong pressure, and the beauty rule that affects younger and younger age groups is now such a major social problem that we have to tackle in this room. It also leads to mental ill health in very many young people. We have an industry that spends billions of dollars telling young people that the body is a project that is constantly going to change, so it's going to match what they tell is the ideals of society, which they don't have any knowledge to say. Some people make a lot of sense that we and young people feel worse. The Contracting Party chooses to cooperate with this industry in this matter, where an overall committee wishes to regulate this more. We keep looking away that it's not the old, regulated forms it comes in – it's no longer on advertising posters where we live, or in magazines – there's always new places where this advertising is distributed. Therefore, it is important that we take seriously what the Children’s Ombudsman has given in the consultation response to this law, that we have to go through the marketing laws properly, so that we can properly regulate this. Influencers, celebrities, advertisers, networks and individuals: there are too many who serve raw to tell young people what to look like. We believe that the government should come back to the Storting in an appropriate way to review the market legislation in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1158	I am pleased that a broad majority of the Health and Welfare Committee supports the government's proposals for legislative changes. Body press or body pressure is a complex phenomenon. In this context, it's about pressure that makes people strive to achieve a ideal of beauty based on cultural notions about what the perfect body or the perfect face should look like. The government wants to counteract body pressure, especially against children and young people, and we are proposing several legislative changes that will contribute to it. Request Decision 839 of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for 2017-2018, concerning, inter alia: the regulation of the supply and use of cosmetic injections, age limits and treatment requirements are part of the background to the legislative changes we are now proposing. The current situation is uncertain whether patients face authorised health professionals when looking for private skin care clinics to perform cosmetic procedures that could lead to a certain risk. The government considers that it is unfortunate that there are no clearer requirements of competence for different types of cosmetic intervention. We therefore propose to amend the Health Care Act in order to allow only healthcare professionals to carry out cosmetic interventions, injections or treatments that could pose a risk of serious injury, illness, complications or adverse reactions to a patient. We also propose to amend the Health Care Professional Act and the Patient and User Rights Act to introduce an 18-year limit on who can be offered cosmetic interventions, injections or treatment without medical or odontological justification. The vast majority of private clinics have already introduced a corresponding age limit, but by legislating this, we will prevent any doubt as to the age limit to apply. The government also wants to legislate that the age limit should apply regardless of whether the patient’s parents or others have parental responsibility. The marketing requirements will be reinforced by regulations. Among other things, health professionals will be required not to be able to design the marketing so that children under the age of 18 can perceive the target of their age group. With Storting's support for the proposed legislative changes, we continue the important work against the ideals of beauty and for children and young people to be content with their own bodies and be satisfied with being themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1175	No one's ever asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1180	I very much agree with the last Council of State saying, that people should be happy with the body you have, and I think at least the representatives of the Progress Party here represent the opposite of the ideals of making sure to work with. However, I must speak when I hear the representative from the SV because the Progress Party is for industry, it is just customsball. But we're actually because we believe that parents with their children – when they're 16, 17 years, 17 years and 9 months, 17 years and 10 months or maybe 17 years and 11 months and 20 or 25 days – can manage to make this decision in a good way. It just means that the difference between SV and the Advancement Party is that SV does not believe that adults, parents, together with children between 16 and 18 years of age, can make this decision on their own. So let's do that. We have great faith in the individual. We have very much faith in the freedom to actually be able to decide, but then in consultation with adults, and could make the good decisions. That's the big difference in this debate -- trust that adults can decide with their children, or those of the children you're responsible for who are 16 years old, and that it's something different than if it was a child. As a father, I know exactly what these debates are like when you have someone who's that age. I know very well how these debates are, but with good dialogue you can find the good solutions together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1192	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1208	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who would have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1215	First, I would like to thank the majority of the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. In principle, this is a proposition proposing to authorise naprapates, osteopates and paramedics under Law No 2 of July 1999. 64 on health professionals, etc., Health professionals. At the Committee's examination, it has been suggested that more groups, other than these three, should be given authorisation. It is a majority of the committee that manual therapists should also be authorised, and the Progress Party supports the majority's proposals in this matter. I expect that the other parties will explain their views, and I will then go over to explain the views of the Progress Party. Naprapats and osteopates I have been fighting for the last time I joined the Health and Care Committee, and it was almost cool impossible to get it done. That's why it's a very good day today. It's almost like I was going to be out celebrating with the soft cake if we had voted today, so I would have been sure it went through, but I expect that it's going to. I want to draw up the Naprapat League with Secretary-General Mariann Fuglerud, whom I have experienced in many ways has had an adventurous, what to say, endurance and work to get to this. It means a lot too many. That's about. 800,000 people who receive treatment for naprapates each year, and that is about 800,000. 600 000 who receive treatment for osteopates. It shows that this is something that a lot of people use and that is important to people. The Progress Party is also concerned with the fact that it is the patients we should actually take care of and take care of in a good way. It's about patient safety and patient safety, getting proper treatment, and having authorised therapists. That is why we have also supported it. Then we support the proposal that logopeds should also be given an authorisation. It's also mentioned in the proposition. There has been a preliminary choice not to go for it, but the Progress Party wants it, just as we think acupuncturists should get it. We are pleased that there is a majority in the Committee which is very clear that it is also important to be able to assess others, and that both acupunctors, logo-peders and others may need to be assessed in that round. There is a large majority in the committee that says that one should look at the possibility of also authorising other groups. We know that there's a lot of commitment, there's a lot of people who care about this, and that's why this is a good day. As I said, we would like to take it today. We can take it on Tuesday instead, when the decision is likely to be taken. I don't think it's being done today, because it's now just before voting. I will deal with the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1236	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1241	The main purpose of the authorisation system is to ensure the safety of patients. The authorisation system shall ensure that health professionals have the necessary qualifications to hold a specific professional role. It is essential that the authorities ensure that patients receive safe and safe treatment through the public health service. The background to this case is a decision taken in the consideration of the State budget for 2021, which states: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant official authorisation to naprapates and osteopates and to review whether acupuncture officers are to be authorised as health professionals.’ The working party agrees that naprapates, osteopates and paramedics should be authorised. This means that these occupational groups are placed under the official supervision of the authorities in order to prevent people from endangering the lives or health of patients. It is a major focus on prehospital services, and it is becoming more important and important throughout our country. There are thousands of skilled professionals who go to work for our common healthcare every single day. When we make decisions and choices, as we do in this case, it is important that we do not put those who have worked in the service for years, in a difficult situation. That is why I am pleased that a joint committee asks the government to consider a transitional arrangement for ambulance workers and nurses who have national paramedics after-school training, so that they can also be authorised as paramedics. Furthermore, it makes sense to also look at the possibilities for setting up, for example: training on the way in this field. It is forward-looking, and it will be able to meet a need that is great in the future. So until that point that has become the main focus of this matter, that of the representative Hoksrud mentioned, the majority's proposal that manual therapists should be authorised. There are many claims made, and I need to raise some of them. The dual authorisation does not threaten either the authorisation system or the specialist authorisation system. I would like to remind you that a unanimous committee proposed dual authorization for paramedics without any problem at all, and that for example. midwives, perfusionists and orthoptists already have a dual authorisation today. We are of the clear opinion that an authorisation will clarify the more independent professional role of manual therapists towards patients and healthcare professionals. This, we believe, prevents any misunderstandings about the professional role of manual therapists, because the reality is that manual therapists have similar powers as doctors in the muscle and musculoskeletal area, and can therefore use specialist health services, x-ray institutions and healthcare systems to help patients. So it's like someone's trying to make a big number of whether we're allowed in this room to change a law. We're allowed to do that, and we're in our full right to do that. It's actually the unique right of the Storing to pass laws. It has happened in Stortinget before that we have also gone into such matters. In 1999, Stortinget entered and established an authorization for pharmacologists without the Ministry having proposed it. The whole background for this matter is that Stortinget decided that naprapates and osteoporosis would be authorised without any prior investigation. So we strongly believe that an authorisation for manual therapists will improve patient safety and are pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1261	The right-hand approach to healthcare is to provide the patient’s healthcare. It's about the patient being seen and heard, and it's always the patient's need to come first. An important part of creating the patient’s healthcare is to ensure that we have good patient safety. The patient must experience a health care service that is safe, of good quality and carried out by properly qualified health professionals. The authorisation system contributes to that very thing. It shall ensure patient safety and ensure that healthcare professionals have the necessary qualifications to have a specific professional role. It is important that we build up under an authorisation scheme that contributes to trust between patients and health professionals. Right supports the authorisation of naprapats, osteopates and paramedics in the Health Care Professional Act. All three of these professional roles have large patient groups, and by granting authorisation it will ensure patient safety and contribute to adequate practice and expertise. The authorisation system also makes it more possible to impose requirements on competence and to subject professional roles to supervisory authorities. The right has taken note of the hearing replies of the Association of Ambulances that those who have currently completed national paramedic training have a professional letter as an ambulance driver or trained nurse should be able to obtain authorisation as paramedics on application. Right supports that the government should consider a transitional arrangement for this. Furthermore, the Right believes that the government needs to assess how today’s ambulance workers can access further training as paramedics, for example. in the case of the establishment of a y-way or the organisation of part-time studies. It is also clear from the Committee's position. Initially, I said that we must have an authorisation system that contributes to the trust between patients and health professionals. The right in the vote has not supported the proposal of the majority to grant manual therapists authorisation. The reason for this is that the proposal almost comes across the table, without having been an up-to-date professional investigation, and without having been consulted, so that various actors can make representations. It's e.g. the reason why the Norwegian Physiotherapeutic Association, which organises 10,000 members and through it very many manual therapists, has responded to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1274	Should the representative address what the right-wing proposal is part of?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1279	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1284	The representative, Erlend Svardal Bøe, then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1289	The main objective of the authorisation scheme and the Health Care Professional Act is patient safety. It is to warn all of us when we need the necessary help and care. Health personnel, it's the assistant nurse who takes care of the grandmother at the hospital. It's the midwife who accepts the baby, it's the bio engineer who loses blood to the cancer, and it's the ergot therapist who trains with the percussion patient. Health personnel section 48 contains a number of title protected professional groups. The purpose is not to mislead the audience by people using titles they are not qualified to have. The focus is on whether professional practice poses a risk to patient safety. There are many different users and patient groups attending treatment in naprapatar and osteopatar. There are young people with spinal disorders, top athletes and MS patients. It is with regard to users and patients that we now authorise these professional groups. Today, anyone can call themselves osteopate and naprapat. With authorization, only those with the right skills and education will now be able to use these titles. Now, patients will be assured that the treatment they are going to receive has the competence they provide, and not least that they have a competence that will meet the requirements of the authorities. The centre is occupied by a highly public and decentralised healthcare system, with enough capacity and competence to provide the whole population with safety and health care. For the Central Party, the Ambulance Service is an important part of this. Skilled professionals, both with a degree and higher education, help us and provide acute health care in vulnerable situations where life and death are often mentioned. Acute medicine is an important subject, and emergency doctors will be able to relieve the rest of the healthcare system if they are allowed to start treatment on the way to a doctor or hospital, and can provide a good basis for the further treatment of the patient. Paramedics and their competence in prehospital emergency medicine meet a need for increased competence in emergency medicine. Emergency medical everyday life is becoming increasingly complex, and increased competence is needed in both decision-making and action, and this need for competence is just meeting the paramedics. Although the Center Party believes it is important and right that these professional groups, i.e., naprapatar, osteopatar, manual therapists and paramedics, now receive authorisation, it is an unfortunate practice that the Storting should act as an authorization office. The Central Party is pleased that the majority of the Committee is now asking the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with a holistic review of the authorisation, licensing and specialist approval arrangements for health professionals, with a review of the occupational groups to be covered by these schemes. Another important element is to clarify which service providers were previously part of the Alternative Treatment Providers Register [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1304	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1310	As a health care professional who spent the week I turned 18, waiting for the authorization in the mailbox, I think it's great to be involved in regulating the health care system in this case, because it brings some reflections about authorization and who we call health care professionals. The debate on this matter has not been easy. We in SV have received many enquiries from many members and interested in this matter. There is a bill on naprapates and osteopates that comes after what the Physiotherapeutic Society called a ‘horse trade’ between the parties in the Solberg government and the Progress Party. It was with great uncertainty that we fell to support a majority for authorization to the manual therapists, because there is a process that has been going on for very many years, and where there have been very great inequalities. It is important as the previous speaker said, that we also want a case with an overall review to the Stortinget, so that the department can come back and give us more guidance on the matter. As an adult, I later trained as a protective care provider, and for a long time I also belonged to a professional profession that is associated with child protection educators in their desire for an authorisation scheme, for which the Joint Organisation is also working hard. This is why the fight for several authorised professionals in Norway is an important battle, not only for the children for whom child protection is the responsibility, but also for our common health and welfare services. I have been in doubt, but today I am happy to be able to vote through – if we reach it – a matter that also gives manual therapists an authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1321	Health professionals are developing and it is therefore necessary to periodically assess whether new occupational groups should be authorised. Authorisation ensures consistent professional practices and contributes to the safe and good health care of the population. Behind this proposition lies solid work, and we support the proposals that come from the Ministry of Health. During the examination of the Committee, proposals were made for the granting of authorisation to manual therapists. Since this proposal was discussed in the Committee, we have received a number of enquiries from both manual therapists and physiotherapists. It is quite clear to everyone in this room that there is division in the professional environments in this case. Unsolved issues are also linked to the provision of dual authorisation to this profession. As of today, few professional groups have this type of dual authorisation. For midwives, one of the few examples of continuing training of basic training is for midwives. Now we know that there is a work going on in the Ministry of Health to see if they should get specialist approval. In this case, it may also have consequences for other health professionals, such as: physiotherapists. The proposal to authorise manual therapists has not been consulted in connection with the proposal we are discussing today. Given that there is one issue where opinions are shared in the professional community, we believe that a better knowledge base is necessary. We therefore vote in favour of minority motion No. 1, and then we don't vote for the proposal that we originally were part of. We're open to review it again; it looks like it's going to be adopted, but if it doesn't, we don't rule it out in principle. We are open to review it again, but then after it has been treated in the department and has been consulted, as with other authorities given in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1330	The Health Care Act shall contribute to the safety of patients and the quality of healthcare and shall provide the basis for the confidence of the public in health professionals and in health and care services. The law to provide patients with the best possible safety is important for the Left. This was one of the reasons why the proposal was promoted also by the Solberg government. The best thing must always be in focus when it comes to treatment. There are now many different groups of health professionals who carry out different treatments to different people. Patients shall have the freedom to choose the treatment they wish, even if it is important for those offering it to be required. Today, anyone can call themselves naprapats or osteopates and offer treatment. There are no formal educational background requirements, which may therefore make it difficult for patients to know if treatment providers have the competence they say they have. When the naprapaths themselves say that they carry out 800,000 treatments a year, and the osteoporosiss carry out about 600 000 consultations a year, it is important that patients are safe to take care of the treatment they receive. Granting authorisation to naprapats and osteopates will mean that we can not only impose requirements on the education and competence of a profession, but also that the authorities can supervise that group. That is why there is a sensible approach to a matter on which opinions are shared among the population. I am pleased that paramedics are also included in this proposal. In other EU and EEA countries, this and similar professional groups are regulated. By authorising Norwegian paramedics, they will be able to obtain recognition of their qualifications in other countries, and it will be similarly easier for Norway to gain increased access to paramedics from the EU or other countries. This is agreed by the Left. In the case of manual therapists, we share the Right's view on this, that there is a need for a slightly broader approach before at least we can land on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1343	Then there will be a break until voting time. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1355	The Storting will first vote for the remaining items from Tuesday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1368	The President: The Committee had recommended the Stortingen to take the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1441	It's going to be wet over I and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1452	President: The vote will be taken on II. The Christian People's Party has warned that they will protest.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1464	The President: There will be a vote on the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1472	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1484	President: In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No 3, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Olav Urbø on behalf of the Labour Party, Right, Center Party, Progress Party, Socialist Left Party and Left Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an evaluation of the health monitoring system within two years of its entry into force.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1665	Alternatively, between the recommendation A I § 2-3, third paragraph, point (c) and proposal No. 1, from Right, Advance and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following point (c) is added to the third paragraph of Section 2-3: c) The children’s, youth and family centre shall provide the child protection service with health monitoring if the child protection service has decided to promote a case for county council members.’;» Red and Environment Party The Greens have already given their support to the recommendation. The Christian People’s Party has every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1689	When several representatives have reported that they have made mistakes, we take the floor again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1701	Alternatively, there will be voting between Recommendations A, I New § 4-3a and Proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Paragraphs 4 to 3a are replaced by the following: When the Child Protection Service has decided to bring an action under Sections 4 to 12, 4 to 24, or 4 to 26, or has taken a decision on voluntary placement under the sixth paragraph of Section 4 to 4, it shall request a health surveillance under the direction of Bufetat. Child protection services need not request health surveillance in cases where this is clearly considered unnecessary. Such derogations shall be regarded as individual decisions and shall be subject to appeal.’;» Red and Environment Party The Greens have already given their support to the recommendation. The Christian People’s Party has every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1722	It's going to be over A, the rest of I, and the rest of the Romantala.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1732	Proposal No. 4, from the Labour Party, Right, the Center Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law 18 June No. 97 on the protection of children the second paragraph of Section 2 to 6 shall be replaced by the following: the provision of child protection services may not be requested under the first subparagraph if health monitoring is clearly considered unnecessary. [[child protection law]] Second and third paragraphs of Innst. [[2021-2022]] 166 L shall become the third and fourth paragraphs.’ Red, the Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party has already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1747	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1758	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting. It was also recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1772	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1791	President: During the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of Right and Left proposal No 2, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the parties, is asked to draw up a concrete and binding plan for strengthening the professional community, without jeopardising the teachers’ own time for pre- and post-work, and to return to the Grand Duchy with such a plan as soon as possible.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1815	President: The vote will be taken on proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government, at the latest in the revised national budget for 2022, to come back with a proposal for a scheme for career paths for school teachers based on the teacher-specialist scheme, which can be continued from the autumn of 2022. The objective of access for all schools to a teacher specialist in initial training shall be continued. The scheme shall be established by the partners in the school sector.’;» The Christian People’s Party has every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1837	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1902	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1915	The President: There will be a vote on the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1927	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1939	President: In the course of the debate, three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Alexander Stakkebø on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Red proposed no. 2 and 3, from Tuva Moflag on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party Proposal No. 1, from Right, Advance and Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked, at the latest on a proposal for a revised national budget for 2022, to return to the Stortinget with an obliging escalating schedule for several permanently organised jobs in both screened and ordinary activities. [[VTA]] The government is asked to report on the escalation plan in the annual budget proposals.’;» The Left and the Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e1963	President: The vote will be taken on proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Suggestion 2 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to address the need for more permanent job placements in the screen and in the ordinary course of business and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ [[VTA]] Suggestion 3 reads: ‘The government is asking for better follow-up models to be developed in VTA-O, inspired, for example, by HELT MED, and to return to Stortinge appropriately. Organised follow-up for persons with developmental disabilities in normal working life must be of a lasting nature.» The left has already given its support to the proposals. The Christian People's Party has every subsidiary support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e2002	The Labour Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e2020	President: During the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Alexander Stakkebø on behalf of Right and Advance Party proposal No 2, by Dagfinn Henrik Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows: Paragraphs 8 to 12 shall be replaced by the following: A member who, on the basis of hospital preparedness as a result of covid-19, has been subjected to surgery or treatment is entitled to sickness benefits beyond 248 days. [[corona virus]] Paragraphs 8 to 12 shall be replaced by the following: A member who is unable to work due to a serious illness due to covid-19 is entitled to sickness benefits beyond 248 days. [[corona virus]] ‘... II The law shall apply from the time of the king’s decision.’;» Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e2061	President: The vote will be taken on proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to identify as soon as possible how many patients who have been subjected to surgery or specialist healthcare treatment due to the pandemic and thus have had to apply from sick pay to redundancy pay’. The Left and Red have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e2083	Right, the Progress Party and Red have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e2102	President: In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party proposed no. 2-4, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Environment Party The Green Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2-4, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to review tax rules for unsold goods with the use of the goods rather than toss them.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to pay a material charge for all plastics and to return to the State budget for 2023 with a proposal for a plastic packaging fee.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement an extended system of producer responsibility for textiles. It shall be assessed that the clothing chains are responsible for: record and be open about the volume of return and surplus goods and work systematically to reduce this volume annually, and ensure the responsible disposal/donation of unsold clothes for second-hand shops and the like; extend the life of clothing by, inter alia, offering used sales and repairs at the store; increasing the degree of repair, reuse, redesign and recycling.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e2141	President: The vote will be taken on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of a repair index for selected consumer goods.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e2173	President: In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Birgit Oline Kjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party proposed no. 2 and 3, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Advance Party Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Prop. 237 L is returned to the government.» [[2020-2021]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for an overall law on customs and trade.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e2202	President: The vote will be taken on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the cessation of imports of polar bear skin from Canadian populations until a thorough review and assessment has been carried out against the CITES Agreement and Norwegian legislation.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5526	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5539	The President: There will be a vote on the title of the law and the law as a whole. The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5551	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting. The size will then vote on the matter no. Case No. 2-5 and Case No. 11 on today's map. Case No. 1 was paid by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5568	President: In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Grete Wold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3-5, by Tobias Driftland Lund on behalf of Red Proposal No. 3-5, from Red. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for immediate wage freezes for the heads of the state’s management system to be implemented pending submission of the report to the government’s board of directors’ remuneration.’ [[SLS]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the guidelines on remuneration and other remuneration for senior employees of government-owned enterprises and companies, in order to take into account that companies in which the State is a majority shareholder shall follow the government’s guidelines on remuneration of directors.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the use of variable remuneration and bonus schemes is limited, and that the amount of pension schemes and termination benefits for senior employees on the government's management system in the country, enterprises and government-owned companies are reviewed with the aim of reducing the total remuneration.» [[SLS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5602	President: The vote will be taken on proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the salaries and pensions of directors and employees of central government, state enterprises, wholly owned state companies and state-owned companies are not higher than the schemes applicable at all times to the prime minister.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government, together with the parties to the contract areas, is asked to introduce wage ceilings for leaders of the country of 15 G and to freeze wages and salaries for current managers with wages and salaries above this level.’ The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5643	President: During the debate, Mr Wold presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a bill requiring the entire central government to establish a registration system for the duties and financial interests of civil servants’. The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5726	There will be a vote over II New Section 39a of Chapter 6. The Socialist Left and Red have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5755	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5767	President: In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Anne Kristine Linnestad on behalf of Right, Socialist Left Party, Red and Left proposed no. 2 and 3, by Grete Wold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No 2 reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the allocation of food promotion funds in indigenous areas takes place in such a way that the allocations do not conflict with the right to cultural exploitation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the immediate start of a process to restore a crisis centre offer in the Sami areas.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5798	President: The vote will be taken on proposal No. 1, from Right, Socialist Left Party, Red and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan to further develop decentralised education in different disciplines and areas of society in the different Sami areas and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5887	The president proposed that the representative's proposal be sent to the Business Committee. His Andreas Limi has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5894	The Progress Party will propose that this proposal for a representative be dealt with in accordance with Section 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure, as it is urgent to clarify it because the Spring Day is imminent.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5899	Then the Storting goes to voting over the procedure. Alternatively, the President’s proposal that the proposal for a representative be sent to the Business Committee shall be rejected and Hans Andreas Limi’s proposal for consideration under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5913	Further referenced: Eight. Representatives from the representatives of the depositors Frank Edvard Sve, Morten Stordalen, Sylvi Listhaug, Bård Hoksrud, Silje Hemdal, Helge André Njåstad, Carl I. Hagen and Tor-André Johnsen to give priority to new regulations. [[280]] [[2021-2022]] 15 Current String Field (Document 8:125 S Samr. : Sent to the Transport and Communications Committee. 9th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the deposit representatives Guri Melby, Ola Elvestuen, Sofie Högestøl and Alfred Jens Bjørlo on ad hoc support for Ukraine's struggle for freedom (Document 8:120 S [[281]] [[2021-2022]] Samr. : Sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5941	The store has asked the government to grant official authorization to naprapates and osteopates. This bill follows up the Storting decision. In addition, the government chooses to authorize paramedics. I take note that the committee also proposes to authorise the manual therapists. Authorisation of naprapaths and osteopates will help those who take advantage of their treatment services to a greater extent than at present can be confident that the caregivers have a certain competence. Authorisation will also allow supervisory authorities to supervise naprapates and osteopates. Paramedics are currently authorized as ambulance workers. However, ambulance workers and paramedics are two different occupational groups. Ambulance workers are trained in secondary schools, and paramedics is a bachelor’s education. It is therefore right to give your own authorization to paramedics. The majority has asked the government to consider setting up a transitional system to enable ambulance workers and nurses with national paramedics to be authorised as paramedics. The Government will follow up the decision of the Storing. The health service needs adequate logoing skills to meet the needs of people with language, speech, eating and swallowing difficulties. The reason why the government does not propose to authorise logos now is that we need to assess whether today’s logo-pedi training is appropriate to the needs of healthcare. This work is about to begin. There are several prerequisites that need to be in place for new groups to apply for and be granted authorisation. For paramedics, osteopates and naprapats, the necessary prerequisites are in place, and they can apply for authorisation when the law is enforced. We have started the work of preparing the manual therapists to apply for authorisation. The Committee wishes an overall review of the arrangements for the authorisation, licensing and specialisation of health professionals, and the government will follow up the decision of the Storting, including proposing the groups to be covered by the scheme. We also want to assess the professional basis for which practitioners are actually going to qualify for authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5960	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5965	There is a proposal for the authorisation of manual therapists, which was also covered by the State Council's article. It is a proposal that does not have an up-to-date professional investigation, it is a proposal that has not been consulted, and it is a proposal that has not been assessed against the legal terms of the authorisation system. There have been very strong reactions in the way you have progressed, among other things. by the Norwegian Physiotherapeutic Association, which has more than 10 000 members. It's said here in the hall that the Storting is sovereign. That is absolutely right, but we also need to listen to professionals. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State think about this procedure, when you think about the importance of an authorisation system based on a professional basis, which builds on the trust between patients and health professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5974	Firstly, there must be a professional basis on which practitioners are actually to qualify for authorisation. For example, paramedic training is included in RETHOS and has a national guideline that all Norwegian education needs to follow. The guidance forms the professional basis of the Norwegian authorisation. In the case of manual therapy training, it is recently included in RETHOS and a national guideline is under preparation. This guideline will be able to serve as a professional basis once it has been completed. Until completion, the Directorate will develop a temporary solution based on existing training provision. In order to also mention the naprapat and osteoporosis training programmes: there are no national guidelines, so in the short term, the training services available in Sweden and Norway for such training will therefore form the professional basis for Norwegian authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5983	I hear that the Council of State doesn't necessarily answer my question, because what I was wondering was the procedure here. When you do not have a properly updated professional basis and you have not had it consulted, I find it challenging for the authorisation system and to build on it. And then, with double authorization, it was taken up in the hall here, that one doesn't ask the same question about paramedics and ambulance workers. But the difference is that now we are in favour of a bachelor's degree in paramedics, which is also very much wanted by the Association of Ambulances, and one should in a way have a gradual transition to that. The starting point here is that physiotherapy is basic education, and then has further training in manual therapy and as a specialist and such. No other country has authorised manual therapists as its own health group. Now Norway is one of the first countries to do so. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that manual therapists today are not covered under the authorisation as physiotherapist?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5994	The size is, as the representative also pointed out, the sovereign with regard to making decisions, and it does the Stortinge here. That is also the background to the fact that this case about several authorisations was promoted for the Storing of the previous government. So the current government chose with me as the responsible state council to leave it in Stortinget. You could say a lot about a procedure like that. At least I can assure the representative that this Council of State is not going to make it a habit to ask the Government to be an authorization office. I also think the representative Truls Vasvik from the Workers' Party answered the questions about double authorization very well. My task is to follow up the decision of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e5999	My question was whether the Council of State thought manual therapists were not covered under the physiotherapists system today, since it is basic education, and why one must then have their own authorization for manual therapists when they fall under physiotherapists today – that one could rather look at a kind of specialist approval, and such things. What are the consequences for health and care services of the state council when one is now in favour of the authorisation of manual therapists?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6004	The consequence for healthcare is that more groups of authorised personnel are provided. All the speeches in the debate today have stressed the need to authorise healthcare professionals to improve patient safety and to ensure that there are requirements for competence when you are authorised as a healthcare professional. Then it is my job to follow up the decision of Storting, and I intend to do so in this case as well. That you disagree about the manual therapists being given their authorization, I register, but there is therefore a guideline in preparation that will be a professional basis for what needs to be in place in order for them to also be authorised as a health care professional.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6011	For the Advancement Party, this is a joyous day because more people now get their authorization, for which we have fought for many years. I'm glad. So it's okay to be optimistic, but we might have been a little over-optimistic when we've made a couple of proposals that we're all alone about in this case, including. on acupunctors. However, I am very pleased that the majority – and a large majority now – are very clear that they want to look at this with the authorisation, licensing and specialist approval of healthcare professionals, including as soon as possible an assessment of which groups are to be covered by the VAT exemption schemes. And ‘as soon as possible’ is always scary, because what is ‘as soon as possible’? Then I would like to challenge the Council of State a little kindly on how quickly she thinks you can get back to this, because there are many patients who, after the VAT came, would like to see it assessed and looked at which groups could get in and drop VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6016	The Committee wishes an overall review of the arrangements for the authorisation, licensing and specialisation of health professionals, and there is a decision when it is taken by the Storting, which the Government will follow up. It is also up to us to propose which groups are to be covered by the scheme and also to assess the professional basis for which practitioners are actually to qualify for authorisation. We intend to follow that up, and although the representative Hoksrud has an optimistic tone, I can't give a date for it, but in the foreseeable future is a fine timeline.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6022	Replicate cord shift complete. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6041	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6048	We have had a demanding power situation this winter. It has been totally unsustainable, and it has called for exceptional measures. The temporary electricity support scheme for households providing a social security rate of 80 pst. at current prices above 70 ø/kWh, help to remedy the situation in the short term. This contributes to reduced electricity costs for Norwegian households, and in February the electricity bill for people was reduced by around 25 pst. i average. I am pleased that the Storting today asks the government to set up a system that provides equal treatment for households in housing laws, joint ventures, share apartments and sole dwellings, and that they are now also included in the scheme. This winter’s high electricity prices have created a very demanding situation for both people and business. Although today's power system has provided us with consistently low power prices since the beginning of the 1990s, it cannot prevent us from evaluating what has worked well, and what can be improved or done differently. We should not be afraid of new knowledge. Therefore, I think it is wise for the government to take a thorough review of the reasons for this year's power situation and an assessment of the risk that similar situations might arise again. That review will also include several of the measures proposed during this winter, such as the maximum price of power, filling level requirements in the warehouses and different ways of securing the power customers. The electricity price crisis has shown us how dependent both people and businesses are on the fact that we have enough clean, Norwegian power. Access to sufficient clean and reasonable power has for decades been the main competitive advantage of the Norwegian industry. Profits from power contribute to increased value creation and employment across the country. It is therefore urgent to facilitate the production of more renewable energy. The government is making a huge effort on sea wind, and it was reassuring to hear the Minister of Oil and Energy in yesterday's Question Time telling about the ambitions for sea wind action, where, among other things, it is. bet on both domestic allocations of new land and that the NVE has been asked to provide a thorough investigation of the network at sea. Equally important is that we put in place measures to reduce the use of energy in construction by at least 10 TWh in 2030, and we are going to increase the production of electricity in construction. On behalf of the rapporteur-general, I therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6067	There is a broad consensus on the matter we have to deal with today. There is still a question related to common garages and similar facilities that I hope the Council of State will answer in its article. This case has become more topical than what you might have seen in particular when it was promoted, through the war in Ukraine. It's not just a question of how to compensate for the period until March, it's also now more topical than for a long time to consider how to compensate for what is likely to be high electricity prices throughout the year, and maybe even into next year. We do not know how long the war in Ukraine will last, but what we know is that we are already seeing a huge impact on the situation in the energy markets in Europe. Tomorrow morning, the electricity price in South Norway will reach NOK 5 at 10:00, and we can expect that there will be more of these in the time to come. The gas price is at historically high levels, the oil price is sky high, and this will also have consequences for Norway, for Norwegian energy policy and also for electricity prices here. It updates that the government quickly comes back to Stortinget with a case where you explain how you intend to compensate for extreme prices in time to come. I hope the Council of State will touch on this in its statement, because this is a question that concerns many. The power support system lasts out of March, and after that there is initially no power support system, but such a situation is now, the need can be very great. The right has also been calling for measures for the companies since before Christmas. It has so far not been met. There are clearly some companies how large increases in the electricity price do not have a significant impact, because electricity is not an important input in comparison with what they otherwise operate, but for other companies, electricity is absolutely crucial as an input. That's why the Right earlier this winter suggested that you should have a municipal compensation scheme where you can just make assessments of what businesses need a handshake in the extreme situation that has been, but not least it may be necessary to see this in the light of the extreme situation we probably have in front of us, where the power prices can be higher than what we've had this winter. Let me remind you that in 2010 we were up to NOK 12/kWh in Central Norway, so that can happen, and in Europe, electricity prices have been far above what we have had in Norway. It's a poor comfort to us, but we have to do what we can to remedy the situation of households, businesses and the volunteering of the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6080	The last year has given us record prizes that we've never seen before. People, businesses, volunteers, sports teams and others have experienced sky-high power prices. There has been a huge problem throughout the winter, since October when prices first began to rise so high, and unfortunately it seems to continue. I have asked several questions to the Minister of Oil and Energy about the extension of the power support, among others. a few weeks ago whether or not she could confirm that the power support would be extended. If there was no need for the power support because the prices went down, it would have taken care of itself, but if it needed the power support, it could have been in place, and people would have predictability of what the prices would be like. I asked a question about that a few weeks ago, and I got the answer that there were no plans, and you could not concretely and confirm them. I have asked that question again, and it is possible that I have received an answer in the last hour – I have not seen that. But I hope that in a short time, and preferably today, there can be a clarification that it will be extended beyond March. Small and medium-sized enterprises are struggling. Power-intensive industry is also struggling, but small and medium-sized enterprises with small margins and small annual profits – which employ most people in this country – now have difficulties. The industry is not included in this scheme, and I really hope that the government can incorporate it. The state and the public make a lot of money on the electricity and have huge ownership. It's the ones that collect the largest sums, and it's the state that has pockets to compensate for business, most people, most sports, and volunteers. The gas prices and the geopolitical game situation are one of the reasons for the prices we see now. Norway also makes enormous sums of money. In December it became about. 4 B.C.E. kr per day in export income from Norwegian oil and gas. This money must be able to be channelled back to the population, to business and sports. I have also asked the Minister for Industry, who has been convening with the Minister for Oil and Energy, about what it would cost to have a larger power support system as the Progress Party wants, which had compensated for a total of over 50 cents. The numbers are big, they're definitely, but 50 cents are still almost twice the usual price you've experienced in the last ten years. In addition, the last question I have asked the Minister of Industry about how much extra income you get when current prices are so high. I think they're even higher than what this would cost. So I hope for a quick clarification, as regards both the length of the power support system and the level of compensation, and whether business should be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6095	We get an interpellation debate in the winter's high electricity prices afterwards. That is why I am going to make a relatively short contribution to this matter, but I would also like to stress the importance of the government coming to the Stortinget with proposals for an extension of the electricity support system in the light of the prices we are looking forward to. We are pleased that we have put in place a power support system, and we are also pleased that the housing teams and the joint surveyors are included. I hope that the Council of State in its contribution will highlight what a majority of the Committee has stressed, namely the challenge for those living in communities and settlements and having common objectives in common garages, that they must also be included in the power support system, so that not only people with their own garages are connected to terraced houses or villas receiving power support. I can also inform you that SV will vote in favour of Red's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6104	Red, of course, supports the change that incorporates dwellings with a common measure into the electricity-steam scheme. People living in joint homes, housing camps or housing camps are not except for the power price crisis we have experienced this winter. We know that many who live in smaller housing units, often have a tight economy, and it's a shame that it's taken so long to get this system in place, despite the fact that a large majority of people on the Stortinge have supported such integration. It may sometimes seem that it is more important to stay within the EEA Agreement than to ensure that people get paid their bills. In addition, we know that the electricity price crisis is far from over. Both NVE and power analysis companies are tracking high prices for a long time in the future. It may be worse since consumption usually goes down in the summer, when it's warmer out, but in the long run these prices will affect both the personal economy and the business world at large. The latter can have disastrous consequences for jobs. High electricity prices reinforce economic differences and create poverty. It's serious, not least for a social-democratic government. The right-hand side is, after all, all honest followers of market solutions, even though these have unsocial consequences. But I expect more from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Therefore, Red promotes an additional proposal where we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a new power case, so that we can assess new measures and good ways to stop the sky-high prices. The base of the previous packages is not gone. It may even have been reinforced. At the same time, we know that the electricity bill will end after March, and that the cuts in the electricity charge will be reduced. This is going to sting for a long time to come. If the Red's proposals are voted down, I urge the government on its own initiative to consider promoting a case itself. For parties that adorn themselves with accountability and governance, I would like to stress the following: It is directly irresponsible to allow a permanent price jump in the order of magnitude that we have had this winter. Neither pay nor social security benefits will repeat that gap. Those who at last will experience it the most are those who have the least. With this our supplementary proposal is advanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6121	The representative Sofie Marhaug has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6126	As others have pointed out, we agree with this matter. It is good that there is now a system for housing law and other housing companies, so they also receive support for their extraordinary costs of power consumption that do not go directly to the individual apartment. And then there is this defect in garages, which I hope you will continue to work with. I would also like to mention that there are many who are still struggling, including companies that have high electricity costs. We have previously suggested from the Left that one should give through the municipal system that we have, and especially then to municipalities that do not themselves have large revenues due to increased electricity prices. It's not going to the powerhouses, it's going to the others. Providing support through municipalities can also be an easy way to give to these companies. Now I understand that the government, through the municipal system, distributed 250 million. kr now on Monday. But then, as far as I can remember, it'll still be 250 million. kr, which is not distributed via the municipal scheme, so I think you have to continue working with it. But we are now suddenly in a completely different situation with the Russian attack on Ukraine, which means that we, both in Norway and in the rest of Europe, have to calculate high electricity prices over a long period of time. I can only say that today the IEA has submitted its ten very specific advice, which I assume is now also being addressed in the EU system. They are specifically asking that gas contracts with Russia should not be renewed and that alternative sources of gas – as from Russia – should be constantly looked for, but that they should also be asked for new wind and solar power plants and measures and that they should be put in place quickly. Bioenergy must be maximised, but support schemes must also be provided when prices are very high, and of course we must also look at this, along with energy efficiency improvement. Yes, they even go so far as to recommend reducing the thermostat heat in each house by one degree. So that's very concrete, and of course we also have to follow up on the Norwegian side. Then I really believe that the discussions on hybrid cables and the links we have with Europe must now be over. These are good that we have. We need to be part of the transition that Europe needs to undergo, both in order to become less dependent on Russian gas as quickly as possible and – in addition – in the light of the UN climate report that arrived in ours. I really hope that the government now emphasizes that we need hybrid cables, we need the international connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6139	I think there have been good contributions to the debate. It's really striking that we're discussing a lot more than just the specific case. It is because there is a common attitude and important matter that comes into place, but it highlights what the opposition has said many times: it is still a very demanding situation, and the arrangements are not good enough. Let me first say that it's very good that this comes into place. This is one of the pieces that has been wanted since the first press conference on the solution. But as others have said, we are in a completely new situation. We hoped that electricity prices would go down only in the spring, that the situation would look better, but unfortunately – and for quite other reasons even more tragic – the situation in Ukraine will also lead to the need for power support schemes for a long time. This case has been really interesting to follow, because it started with the government wanting support for households of 50 pst. over 70 kWh. Then the agreement with SV was 55 pst. Then they realized that it was not good enough, and came back with 80 pst. over 70 cents. And then the housework came into place. Then came a separate support scheme for agriculture. Then there was an improvement on agriculture. Then came a support scheme for volunteering – at least parts of the volunteering. In many ways it's just full of holes an attempt to close, but as the situation is now, I'm asking the government and SV to think about it. Now, if we go into a still long period of high power prices, there are a lot of people falling outside this power compensation scheme, which is really just a refund to people who pay sky-high prices. Then I have to go back to the basics of what power is actually in Norway. Well, that's a common good. We've built up the whole system in Norway, assuming it's been cheap power. It has been important for the industry, it has been important for the companies, but also for the way we have arranged our houses, and therefore depends on heating. I'm being contacted – I'm sure the rest of the committee will also be – by many sports, such as sports. fires on gas, and unfortunately was not included in the previous scheme. You can probably have a climate policy debate on that, but that means, for example, that. many football courses in this city are struggling, and they are talking about increased quotas. People's high schools are making contact. They are not included in the aid. What are they going to do, they're going to cancel teachers, cut lines, or increase prices? Kindergartens, incubators, the Norwegian Church, small and medium-sized enterprises – that's how I could still, there are so many examples. That is why I believe that this is not good enough. I'm not saying that for populist, tabloid reasons, but the system doesn't work well enough. Something has to get better. I warn you that we support Mr Rødt's proposal in this matter, but I also urge you to reconsider your view, for example. the proposal we and others have had, with 50 cents as a maximum price, that is 100 cents. compensation over it. There must be more, because there are so many who fall outside, and the government is hoping for income while going beyond volunteering, businesses and households.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6159	The government has recently presented a series of measures to help households with high electricity bills, and above all we have quickly put in place a power support scheme for households. When the electricity support scheme was introduced before Christmas, we promised to continue to work to ensure that collective household consumption in housing laws, joint ventures and share apartments was included in the scheme as quickly as possible. On 21 January the Ministry was provided with a regulation ensuring that collective household consumption in housing law, joint stock companies and housing companies, referred to in the regulation as housing companies, is also included in the electricity support scheme for households. The proposal for a regulation now under consideration is directly linked to the extension of the regulation. Social benefits for housing companies are calculated in accordance with the regulations, mainly in the same way as under the law on social security benefits, with some adjustments. No social benefit shall be granted for collective consumption, which in total exceeds 5000 kWh per month per housing unit, and any social benefit provided or provided in the light of the individual electricity meters of the housing units is added. I believe there are many good reasons why households that are related to housing companies should have the same security as other households, and that the government is setting up and helping at a time of very high electricity prices. Most housing companies received electricity support for December and January on the February invoice. Extending the electricity support scheme to include household consumption in housing companies is estimated to cost 300 million. kr, and all in all, the State contributes SEK 9.2 billion. kr to household electricity bills now in the winter months. The government is following price developments in the electricity market closely, and we are going to set up if the power prices continue to be exceptionally high even in the next winter. We know that's going to happen. Even tomorrow, because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we will have an impact on the electricity prices that will make them in South Norway an average of 2kr/kWh in the morning, and we'll get a price peak of about 2kr/kWh in the morning. 4 kroner between hours. 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. 09 tomorrow morning. By comparison, Germany has DKK 3.5/kWh throughout the day. It's obvious that we have to keep discussing this. We'll do that, among other things. in the interpellation in the next case, and we have also announced in the government that we will provide an additional message to the energy message before Easter. We're going to go through this whole power supply system and see what improvements we can make. We also have to go through the power system and how the foreign tables affect this. We have set down an energy commission to look at the whole development of consumption and production, etc. We're definitely going to get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6172	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6177	I have two questions for the Council of State. One question is whether the government will initiate the integration of garages and other common facilities of the same type into the power support system. The second question is whether the government will take the initiative to extend the current electricity support scheme beyond March. If so, will that initiative come before the expiry of the power support scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6184	In the case of garages and energy installations organised in housing law, joint ventures and housing companies, they have the right to receive support under the regulation. The regulation does not apply to such facilities when they are organised in other ways. Energy storage centres, garages and the like may be organised in different forms, such as joint stock companies, limited liability companies, cooperatives and associations. The ownership may be divided between several housing companies and other traders, and a condition for support under the regulation is that the consumption is behind a measuring point belonging to the law on housing, the joint venture or the housing company. When it comes to extending the power support system, we will quickly come back to how we want to align this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6191	Today's debate and expansion of power support are welcome. As several representatives have said, it has become a small patchwork, and we would have liked another device. But the most important thing for us is that both people, households, sports teams, and all get power support – ideally a better one, but that's another thing. In addition to the two good questions raised by the Right, I would like to know whether the Council of State is looking at the situation today differently from in previous debates. Do they see the need to extend the power support system? In addition, there is a lot of room in the EEA and ESA legislation. Have you started to look at other instruments? If today the government and the minister cannot guarantee an extension of the power support system beyond March, can you at least explain when the clarification comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6198	The government has announced a thorough review of the reason for the power situation of the year and an assessment of the risk of similar situations occurring again. This review will include several of the measures proposed, such as: the maximum price of power, power and filling in the warehouses, different means of securing the power customers. I would like to stress that when we joined in October, there was little available from the previous government. The investigation related to the sea wind net, which was requested from the pulpit here instead, was only notified by the previous government – we have started it. As regards the preparation for this crisis that we are in, there was nothing but the Energy for Work message, presented to the Stortinget in June 2021 after the Stortinget had split up. We've set up for people, and we've early announced that we're going to stand up for people in the continuation of the power support system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6207	I would like to pursue the first question raised by the representative Astrup, namely whether the government is going to take the initiative to ensure that joint garages, which are not behind the common current meter of the housing law, will also be covered by the power support.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6212	As I've been through sometimes, even in previous debates related to the power support system, the scheme is made in a reasonably simple way. Just to get you started quickly, we used the network companies, and we used the system we have with meters. The biggest request was that we first link it to the households, and it was fairly simple. So we saw that it was wrong, among other things. against housing rights and cohabitations, which were not included, and they were picked out manually. They've been brought into the system. As far as garages are concerned, as I said, the garages and energy installations organised in housing laws, joint ventures and housing companies are entitled to support according to the regulations, and not the facilities that are organised in other ways. Of course, we can look at this, but a prerequisite for support under the regulations is that they are behind a measuring point that belongs to the law of residence, the joint venture or the housing company.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6219	Then I choose to interpret the answer as that the government will look at that challenge and come back to Stortinget with a proposal that ensures equal treatment for all types of garages. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6224	I want to make it clear that it is important that the housing laws are behind that meter, and that it is owned by the housing laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6229	The representative of Elvesuen referred to some of the measures in the IEA’s action plan to make Europe less dependent on Russian gas, which was presented today. Typically, you refer to the proposals that you most agree with yourself. That is why I would refer to another proposal in that action package, because it can also have consequences for what kind of measures we can introduce in future power packs. I wonder what the Council of State thinks about that measure, namely to adopt short-term tax measures on unexpected profits to protect vulnerable electricity consumers from high prices. Have the Governments looked at this IEA action plan and can any of these actions be relevant in a future power package?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6235	There are conversations in the IEA these days, which I also attend, and we're going to have a Ministerial Meeting in Paris if not for long. What measures are adopted are at consensus level, and we come back to it when we have discussed it in the college.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6240	Could it be relevant for tax measures that are designed differently from the current support scheme, which is a refund, in future electricity packages that the Storting will receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6245	As I have said before, I have not wanted to rule out anything, but I have said that we will review this power support scheme to see if there are opportunities to improve it or do it in other ways. Then, of course, tax questions can be part of it, but the device is something we might have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6250	As I said in my post, I find it quite demanding for some institutions, especially ideals, that have no ability to collect income in particular in other ways. State councils like to say a little bit about how she looks at it, and the background that one doesn't want to include that kind of institution. I know it's not her constitutional responsibility, so she gets to choose. I have noticed in the reply now that the council repeatedly says that it is appropriate to extend or to do something about the power support system next winter. Is it a very conscious choice of words, that it's the next winter it might be, or is it relevant to extend it for April and May as well? Although one uses less for heating, many people use a lot of power in that period as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6257	I've said both 'next winter' and that we're going to stand up for people in the process, and it's related to two different relationships. The first is, when I have said ‘next winter’, it is important that, when we are going to review how this power support system has worked this winter and autumn, and also analyse the power market towards the energy situation in Europe, the next winter will apply. But the government – both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and myself – has been very clear that we are going to stand up for people as long as there are high prices. To the second question, it is true that the constitutional responsibility of NPISHs lies with other government councils, but I still want to stress that a system was set up very quickly linked to the voluntary, sport and voluntary teams and organisations, as the Minister for Culture put forward. So the representative has pointed out some groups that have fallen outside it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6264	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6271	I took the floor because I react to the government reacting to this crisis by calling it 'a patchwork'. I don't think anyone in this room has put – or is still sitting – on a final solution to how we're going to meet the sky-high power prices. I am very pleased that the government presented an innovative approach to how households could quickly receive support. We are constantly getting news that when you compare bills for February of this year and February of 2019, which was a normal year, the bill is not so terribly much higher than it was in 2019, now that people get support. I don't want to stay long at what parties have suggested here, but if we had done as the Progress Party wanted, we would have paid 4000 kroner to all households once, and that was it. It was the first proposal that came from the Progress Party. I am very pleased that since then the government has both cut the electricity charge, made arrangements for students and made arrangements for those who receive housing support. I am pleased that even more people are under the housing support scheme, that all households in Norway are receiving electricity support, and that volunteers, agriculture and everyone else are receiving it. So there are some groups that are outside, and that's why I'm very happy that the government here says that we should also look at it, and that we should set up for people as long as the power prices are sky-high. You could call it a patchwork of suggestions, but once again, none of us here predicted that this would happen. That is exactly why I am very pleased that we have the government we have, which has managed to deliver solutions on a continuous basis, which have helped households, agriculture, volunteering and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6280	I also reacted to the word ‘clothing carpet’ and to the words coming on this matter from the opposition and the former government parties. I have to repeat this: already on 23 February 2021 the Stortinget took the following decision: ‘The government is asked to propose immediately measures to remedy the situation of exceptionally high electricity costs and to return to the Storting in a timely manner.’ Now they're standing up here saying that the government has reacted slowly, and that it's a patchwork. The previous government had the following answer: ‘In the light of developments in electricity prices following the adoption of the request decision, in my opinion, there is little need for further, immediate action to remedy the situation.’ And then they stand here and call this a patchwork. The matter we are dealing with now is that it was a power support that was introduced in a short time. Then we've seen in retrospect that there was someone who wasn't included in it, and we're fixing it now. I am also very pleased that the government has previously confirmed that they will provide more power support if the situation at exceptionally high power prices persists. I hear the Council of State repeat that today, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6297	The representative Mani Hussaini has a slightly simple presentation of what the Progress Party has proposed of measures. We have correctly proposed a cash payment of NOK 4000 to all, so that all the power customers would receive money before Christmas and can afford both good food and gifts on Christmas Eve, but it is a very small piece of it. We also proposed the removal of the electricity charge, we proposed the removal of VAT on electricity, we proposed to reduce the rent, and we have proposed a maximum price of 50 cents for both households and businesses – many good suggestions that would have helped very much in today's situation. So the representative, Hussaini, also says that the prices of today's system are not so much higher than usual. That's a nice definition, because prices are still twice as high for many, and it's too expensive. The definition of "very much higher" is a funny thing, because, as I said, there are an incredible number of companies that are struggling. We are contacted by everything from gas stations to power-intensive industries and all kinds of business else – they have no support at all – but also by the population. On questions from me, the Minister of Oil and Energy has confirmed that even with today's power support system, the forecasts for the first quarter of the year were 50 pst. higher in total costs than usual in an average year. With the power support system you had in December, it was 80 pst. higher. I understand that we have a different definition of ‘very much higher’, but in my view it is terribly much higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6306	The reason for my signing was the contribution of the representative Mykjåland, who refers to the decision taken by the Stortinget on 23 February last year. That decision was a decision that was the coin of the situation that was just then. Then it was mentioned and accepted into the revised national budget, and then the situation was completely different. On 28 April, about the time the revised national budget was completed, the power price was estimated to be 2021 to 35 cents, and so it's the people who live by predicting such things, and who buy and sell power, who joined it. Therefore, neither the Centre Party nor the Workers' Party had any comments on how the request decision was accepted. So coming now and saying that we were asked for this on 23 February, and that we did not deliver on it, is simply and with respect to reporting – now I have to find a parliamentary expression – not right and not true, I would say, as a description of reality. I understand that the representative doesn't like to hear from the government parties that you've been behind, but that's what's real. An additional proposition was made without any measures to promote ordinary people. Then a budget settlement was negotiated with SV in December, where billions of dollars were moved and taxes increased for business by 10 billion. kr and increased the dividend from Statkraft by 10 billion. kr, without coming up with measures for ordinary people. It was not until the collapse session that measures were taken for ordinary people, but then it had been forgotten that there were others who were affected by this, so the new measures came gradually. It was about agriculture, it was about the greenhouse industry, it was about volunteering, and then finally about housing law, and maybe it is – finally – coming eventually for garages that are not on the common goal of the housing law. There is no doubt that the government has been behind it. The question is whether the government intends to remain behind, or whether it is now recognised that the electricity support system needs to be extended before it runs out, so that predictability can be achieved, and that something has to be done for the smaller enterprises in particular, which have major challenges with high electricity prices because electricity represents a large proportion of the turnover of the enterprise. That's the question. And then I understand very well that the representatives from the Central Party think it's bad to hear that they've been behind, but that's a very precise description of the reality, and it has nothing to do with this decision on February 23rd. If you have any objections to this, you should bring it to the attention of the revision. You didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6315	I could have actually withdrawn from the list of speakers now that Nikolai Astrup has made an excellent contribution to the story, but I have nevertheless maintained it, for my point is to look forward to it. As far as I remember, in my post I was not concerned about insidiousness or if it was slow, although it might be a paradox that this matter we are discussing today, well will be formally adopted at the end of next week and will apply for December, January, February and March. But now leave it. My point is that now we are in a situation where it seems to be going to be persistently high power prices, and then the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party and Red and others would be better taken. The proposals that have been on various support schemes for municipalities, which could be distributed to the particularly vulnerable business community, would also be better. But now put all that history aside. My point is that the situation we're in now is drastic for a high school. It's dramatic, they don't get any support. Whether the government was late or not, it doesn't matter for that high school or for other organisations or for businesses. The point is that if we put politics and all this rhetoric aside, this is a difficult situation that can persist. The representative of Mykjåland has certainly received e-mails from higher education institutions and other companies in his own county who are concerned about how to resolve the situation. My point is that if we look forward, it's like there's now three to four weeks left, and then we're out of March and the power support system. The next arrangement that needs to be put in place must include better. I guess someone's using a slogan that everyone's going with. It could be tempting to repeat, because there are a lot of people outside. That is why I believe that the word ‘clothing carpet’ has also — yes, it has been good with the various initiatives taken, it has been good for the greenhouse industry, for agriculture, for volunteering, but it looks like just taking it up. Now I remember other challenges. A maximum price would solve it in terms of 100 pst. compensation over, for example: 70 cents, if it were, or 50 cents, everything would help for these. It's a shame it's just about history, because it's really a little irrelevant. Now we have to solve the challenges ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6325	I want to remind you that a carpet heats up a little, after all, when it's cold out, but it's even more heated with a heated house, and that's what's at the core. We need to look at the cause of the electricity price crisis we've had this winter – not just to deal with history stories, but also because we need to look ahead and find the solutions that work to bring prices down in a fair way. Then it is also interesting to see what has gone wrong. And then I would point out that the governance parties, both on the right and the left, are responsible for the energy policy that is being pursued today, after all. There has been a large consensus in energy policy between, for example: Right and Work Party. The consequences of that policy are nevertheless more serious than I think the parties could have foreseen. Then I'll be out. And first of all, it's about real pay cuts. We have already received that, with the prices that have been in winter. The real wage reduction is going to continue, and it primarily affects the workforce and the unemployed, and it's very serious. The other long-term consequence, which is a consequence that is independent of whether it gets warmer in the weather or not, is the risk of job losses in Norway. I mention these two things – real wage cuts and jobs – because it is a challenge for the government that does not just come from the Red; it comes from the entire LO. If the government does not deliver a power package – both in the short and long term – that does something about the causes of the electricity price crisis and that does something about the consequences of the electricity prices, this government will have major problems not only with the voters but also with its main alliance partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6334	I realize that I'm upset with many people, and that the list of speakers always gets long when I've taken the floor. It's happened on several occasions, so I'm going to try to tighten up. To what the last speaker said that we should be concerned about getting the trade union movement against us: Many of the schemes that have been launched by the government have been launched in cooperation with just the trade union movement. The representative from Red should be very concerned about the trade union movement in terms of their own policies, which are about not building any of the world's things in terms of power. If there's one thing we're told from the trade union movement, it's that we need to have more power in the years to come. It has been pointed out by some representatives here that history is irrelevant. It can't vote, because there's a reason we're here, and that's because history hasn't sorted out these things that we're in. It was a serious worry that last year – a year ago – the government asked to look at the electricity price and what could be done. I hear that the representative of Astrup is indignant that the Workers' Party and the Centre did not comment on the decision which, among other things, took place. The parties of government were then taken. Had I been the representative of Astrup, I would have been more concerned about why his government did not do enough with the power price. I say it again: none of us predicted that we would end up in the situation we're in now, but here we are. That is why I am very pleased that the government has launched many proposals and many solutions. To put it that way: many in the Workers' Party and the Center Party have been very impatient after these arrangements were to come quickly enough, so that people can pay their bills. They have. I am also very pleased that the government here is signaling that everything, all of proposals and all of the measures, should be assessed, also much from the list that the representative of the Progress Party came up with. A patchwork of suggestions – yes, you could say, but everything is assessed. The government is on the matter, and I am very pleased that the government says it will support people as long as the prices are high.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6347	As many people have experienced, it is not just households that are struggling with the high electricity prices. Fortunately, powerful industries have been broadly distinguished from the high power prices because they have long-term contracts. But a few weeks ago, I was visiting REC Solar in Kristiansand. It's a company that produces silicon for the solar industry, and it produces this with a very low CO 2 pressure. It is a type of enterprise that is very important in the future we are about to enter, in order to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Unfortunately, the REC in Kristiansand does not have a long-term power contract. Due to a recent change of ownership, they did not conclude such a contract. As a result, last December they experienced an increase in the price of the current they use – and they use a lot of electricity – of well over 600 pst. compared to what they had budgeted for. It's pretty serious, and it makes both the company club and the director worry about the situation. That's why I have a question for the Council of State and the Government, and it's whether the government will ask Statkraft to enter into negotiations with the REC in Kristiansand to conclude a long-term power agreement. There may also be other powerful enterprises in the same situation — fortunately not many, but at least REC is. So I hope the government will ask Statkraft to enter into negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6359	I really didn't intend to speak in this debate, but the representative Astrup and the Right Story are mildly interesting, and it's largely about expounding and referring to a request decision that was endorsed in the revised national budget. But the truth is that the Right, regardless of that receipt, didn't lift a finger to do anything at high power prices a year ago. When I asked a similar question last September, when we had electricity prices of 1.53 kroner per kWh, the answer was that the housing support had been increased, that there was no reason to take any further action. So you've been leaning on the blind belief of well-paid power analysts in the market that the electricity price should go down. So no action has been taken as a response to high electricity prices. And then you sit down and criticise the government for the schemes that have been implemented – both for households, for agriculture, for gardening and for volunteering. And they also criticized it to the extent – yes, now I lost the thread. What has the answer to the right been? There has been more market, more integration and austerity in power development. This has been the Right answer for eight years. The electricity charge has been increased year after year. There have been Right answers in energy policy. So you haven't prepared the reason why we could get into this situation at all, even though you've had eight years in government to do it. So I kind of think the story to the Right is interesting, because you actually don't get away from the fact that it's no more than a few weeks ago that the Right stood on the barricades for several foreign tables, which we demonstrably know will lead to increased electricity prices in the country. Then the question is, why should we believe in the representative Astrup? If they had continued in government, what would the Right Option be in today's situation? I think I know the answer: it would have been more market, more market and more market.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6368	I would recommend that the representatives Hussaini and Myhrvold agree on what is the story of history, because the representative Hussaini says that no one could predict the situation we are currently facing, but at the same time both the representative Hussaini and the representative Myhrvold say that then, we had to foresee this, and we had to put in place a power support system last year, when the electricity price was 35 cents, with an entry point of 70 cents. To what effect, then? It wouldn't have any effect. There is a reason why the representatives did not have any comments on the request decision when it was endorsed in the RNB. It was because the power prices were then at such a level that there was no need for a power support scheme. Coming up now and saying that we should have implemented the power support system beyond the spring last year makes no sense. Let me also say that in the state budget for 2022 that the Solberg government presented, written in August 2021, it was quite clear that now we were concerned about increasing electricity prices, and that it would be necessary to assess targeted measures. There would be a new government that would follow up. They've done that, but they've done it late and they've been behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6375	The representative Mani Hussaini has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6380	To the representative of Astrup, no one has demanded a power support scheme from the previous government, but what was required here was to look at different measures, to start a job, to get the departments and the Directorates to look at what opportunities we have to help people, if this situation continues. It's a defamation government. That is what we are responding to. We have never expected a power support scheme from the previous government, but a little more humility would have been in place. One of the first things our government did was cut the electricity charge by 3 billion. kr. Guess which party was strongly opposed to it and didn't let it cut into its budgets – well, it was Right, it was the previous government, and it was the representative Astrup. So the story is important to tell, because that's why we're here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6387	The representative, Marius Arion Nilsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6392	That's very interesting to hear. Since last autumn, the Progress Party has been preparing a number of measures to reduce prices. We started to talk about reduced electricity charges, reduced and removed VAT in late summer, and in September we also decided to limit and regulate the export of power – just as the representative Myhrvold proclaimed in the nation and other newspapers: the Central Party in the government was to be called upon to regulate the export of power. We in the Progress Party fully agree, because it will be able to do something about the prices now. So I hope, when we run history stories about what you've done before, and what you think they'll be able to tackle this now. Otherwise, the representative, Hussaini, says that the government should look at many solutions and come back. I guess that's good. We've come up with a lot of good solutions that will help with prices, so you have a good list there that you can pick from.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6399	It's interesting to sit and follow up on the debate and how to deal with stories in different ways and have different senses of reality, and also how to try to overwhelm each other with who has done what, and who has done nothing at all. We see that it has become a matter of policy, of overcoming each other in more and more areas. We even see that we are trying to make political coins in social media campaigns on very serious issues, such as Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It's pretty bad that this is a way we're discussing politics, but it's just as full it's been interesting to follow. We have had low electricity prices since the 1990s in Norway. If there's one thing we know, it's about having a power surplus. That is what has given both employment and value creation, and has been our competitive advantage. What you know is that the power surplus in all the analyses is now starting to decrease. And if there's something to make sure that we never end up in such a power crisis again, it's just that we're going to have enough surplus power. I have to respectfully report just saying that then the outgoing government has not done the job that was absolutely necessary to ensure that we can both produce more renewable power, drive more energy efficiency and take out the potential that lies in construction. In many areas a better job should have been done so that we should not be in such a situation today, nor in the coming years. Fortunately, we have now established a new government, which has started – at good speed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6408	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6428	As we saw in the previous debate, more people are looking forward to this discussion. This winter, market forces have been raging with the Norwegian people and peoples of Europe. The prices of electricity in South Norway have exploded, and it has triggered a very important commitment from very many. Power prices threaten people’s economy – not only the poorest but also families with very common incomes. It also threatens one of the main reasons why we have a varied and strong industry in Norway, which is also our competitive advantage: reasonable, zero-emission power. We also see that farmers are struggling, the small industry is struggling, sports are struggling, and various types of smaller business are struggling. In the long term, even the more powerful industry will wear off if we don't get control of the prices, because no one has taken into account the fluctuations that we see now, not even those who are working on analysing the electricity market. The sky-high electricity prices are the result of the idea that the flow should flow freely in a market and that price formation should only be based on what the market is willing to pay. Now the prices have become harmfully high. Power should be regarded as a basic infrastructure – which is the responsibility of the Community to ensure everyone at a reasonable and predictable price. It is good that the government has come up with compensation schemes, and that SV has improved them in Stortinget. It means too many, but compensation schemes can only be the first step. Even in the years that come, unfortunately, we have to expect that we will be able to get the same kind of extreme pressure on prices. It's the system that's the problem, and the next thing that happens, therefore, has to be system change. How can we avoid this price pressure repeating itself? How can we prevent us from ending up with unsocial and unacceptable power prices that hit them the hardest that ever have? We cannot base this on having state compensation schemes every winter. We must have viable and predictable electricity prices, including for the winters of the future. Then it's time to take control of the power market. One of the things that SV has proposed is to set up a state-owned power company that buys power from producers and sells it to Norwegian consumers and businesses, so that they can meet their basic needs for electricity for a reasonable amount of money. We want to replace the costly and confusing intermediaries that electricity sales companies are today, with a state-owned electricity company that can transmit electricity from the producer to the consumer, at fixed and predictable prices. That is how we can ensure that people can get fixed-price agreements, that they can meet their basic needs for light and heat for a reasonable amount of money. A state-owned electricity company can be compared to the industrial power contracts that Hydro and Elektem have, where they can enter into fixed-price contracts several decades in advance. The state company will then go to the power producers and purchase large amounts of terawat hours for the next decades. So the state sold this stream to Norwegian households and businesses for a reasonable amount of money. In this way, the State will have a negotiating power that is large on behalf of all Norwegian consumers, and the result for consumers will be low, predictable power prices in the future. The question is: will the government look at this and other measures to ensure that the winter electricity price crisis does not recur?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6443	Thank you so much for raising this important discussion in Stortinget, so that we can discuss together the power situation of the year and the government's plan to deal with it in the future. First of all, I am pleased that the representative shares the government's concern about how the high electricity prices affect the end-users of electricity. I can assure the representative that this is a matter of high priority in the government. The government is now following up the power situation along three main tracks: first, we are giving immediate help to those who need it. Secondly, we are now following up the force situation of the year with a thorough review of causes, risks of similar situations and proposals for action. Thirdly, we are working to provide a good power supply in the long term. The most important thing for the government has been to give people immediate help with the power bill. We have done this – and do – through a large number of measures. The electricity support scheme is a whole new scheme for all households that were set up very quickly when we needed it. Then we have supplemented with new measures when necessary – or a ‘clothing carpet’, as someone here has called it. Housing law is now included, agriculture has been granted a grant scheme, volunteering is given its own support, and the students are given extra scholarships. Today, I would like to stress once again that the government will set up in the future. It is important to me that people do not have to face uncertainties about electricity prices and high costs over the coming year. With this starting point, we're better rusted in the future. It has been a priority to provide security for electricity customers in the future, but the power situation of the year needs to be monitored. We need to have a thorough review of reasons, and we need to assess the risk of similar situations in the years to come. We must not least also consider measures. The government has started this work. We will examine several of the measures proposed in the last few months, including the proposal pointed out by the representative. At the same time, it has been important to state that this type of action requires knowledge of how the power supply is affected. There are no simple solutions that can be implemented quickly, without risking unintended impacts on operators in the power supply or on end-users. And if there's something we should avoid, it's putting even greater pressure on the force situation. These are dark times in Europe. In view of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, it is clear that the uncertainty about energy prices in the countries around us is much greater than in the past. Russia’s acts of war and the sanctions to which Norway has joined are affecting energy markets. That is also the purpose of the sanctions. If Russia stops all deliveries, it will have even greater consequences. Prices are expected to be high. The government shares the objective that Norwegian end-users must be given a real opportunity to price themselves and that we must turn all the stones around. This has priority in future work, and the government will come back to Stortinget with our assessments. We will shortly be presenting an additional communication on energy policy, and we will follow up the matter in the revised national budget and Prop. 1 S. Thirdly, this government is following up the long-term power supply. We know that the prospects for higher consumption in the future can be a challenge if we do not simultaneously follow up on plans for the development of the power supply. In the Hurdal platform, the government has been clear on what the goal is: we want a clean and reasonable supply that contributes to value creation and employment throughout the country, including in the future. So we know that the development of the power supply is not without dilemmas. It's about what kind of power generation is going to be built and where, it's about the development of networks in many places in the country, and it's about the effects on nature and who's going to bear the costs. The Government has therefore set down an Energy Commission to identify energy needs and propose an increase in energy production, with the aim of maintaining surplus power production in Norway. One of the main tasks of the Commission is to assess what are the fundamental dilemmas of Norwegian energy policy up to 2030 and 2050, and how different policy choices can influence the long-term development of Norwegian power supply. The Commission shall deliver its investigation by 15 December of this year and they shall start their work today. The investigation can be an important input into our long-term power supply. This does not mean, however, that time will stand still while the Commission is working. The government’s efforts to facilitate new power generation will continue in the future. We are further working on the framework for wind power at sea and on land; we are looking at the possibility of more solar power and are laying the basis for the continued expansion and upgrading of hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6471	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I expect that there will be powerful measures in the additional message that the government has announced to the Energy Communication, so that during this spring the Stortinget can put in place a system that ensures people against the crazy power prices we see this winter. I look forward to the debate we are about to have on this. I hope the Council of State and the government will look closely at our proposal for a separate government body, which we think could have solved a lot of the challenges we are facing, which would have been able to get involved in a relatively short period of time, and which would not only help households, but could also help those parts of the business and the volunteer that are currently unable to enter into long-term contracts. This is a grip that ensures greater control of the power resources we have in Norway, and it concerns both their use and the availability of electricity to people and businesses for a reasonable amount of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6480	There is considerable uncertainty about the power situation and power prices in the coming year, and it is therefore important for the government to have a plan for monitoring the situation in both the short and long term. We've met an extraordinary situation with powerful measures, and we're ready to do it again. In this way, we stand far better rusted for the power situation in winter 2022 and 2023 than we did this winter. The interpellant is calling for a system to secure people in the future. I agree, but I also want to quote the poet Bob Dylan, when he says "the times they are a-changing" – which we really are in the situation we're in right now. We know little about what changes we are actually facing now, about the war in Ukraine and also about what demand and consumption growth are really expecting us. We're going to electrify our entire community. We're going to electrify the transport. We're going to electrify our industry. We're going to develop a new green industry that is power-processing, complementing the power-processing industry we have today, and we're also going to electrify parts of the industry that's already on the base. It requires much more force, and the whole of Europe must do the same in this situation. It is a demanding situation, and we should have been much more prepared than we are today. In many ways I would have wanted us to have these plans already, but we don't have them. That's why I'm very happy that we're being invited to this slightly more freer debate, where we can put all the suggestions on the table. I want to be very clear that in the time that is coming, in which we are going to discuss both the energy message and the other things, I will not exclude any proposals, nor the proposal that the interpellant here has promoted about a state company. But I want to point to something. When the power support or the insurance scheme is called a compensation scheme, I would like to point out that it is very much like the 70-piece price cap scheme. Then you have chosen to compensate 80 pst. Just to keep some of the incentives associated with power saving, because our energy is so valuable. We see that not least now when we're going to electrify so many parts of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6493	The situation in Ukraine has been mentioned several times from the pulpit here today. We are all shaken and affected by Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine. A very demanding security policy situation already affects energy markets. All we can say with certainty is that the power prices are likely to continue to be high. That is why the question to the representative Haltbrecken is good. We must be prepared for the current crisis to last. Our answers must provide solutions for ordinary people in both the short and long term. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance will look at possible tax changes so that more people can obtain favourable fixed-price agreements. I am also pleased that the government will clean up the jungle of electricity price agreements that exist out there, and make it easier to make good choices. We also want to help people use the current more effectively. We have already given Enova increased space for action to contribute to energy efficiency improvement. I call this a start, but as for all other problems, it's not just to treat the symptoms, we have to cure the disease itself. In the long term, there is only one grip that will remedy the fact that we repeatedly come into such a situation, and there is more access to reasonable and renewable energy and more networks. Both industry and people are impatient. Forecasts show that large parts of the country face a power shortage in a few years. There is a pressing need to develop more clean renewable energy from good projects based on local upliftment and to a large extent public ownership. Europe is very determined to get out of dependence on Russian gas. Here Norway can and should see its role. We need to assist Europe, which is in a vulnerable energy situation, with increased supplies of natural gas. The Barents Sea has a large share of the undiscovered resources on the Norwegian base. If we look here and find more, Norwegian natural gas can increasingly secure Europe in the transition to the green shift. In the long term, decarbonised natural gas in the form of hydrogen will take over as a long-term energy carrier. This is the necessary lifting that I hope the parties at Stortinget stand behind – not least SV and Red, who claim to be concerned with preventing similar power crises in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6506	The Hurdal platform clearly states that the government’s objectives are sufficient with a clean and reasonable force, as has been the case in Norway for decades. It will benefit industry and consumers. It contrasts with the policy of the previous government, which had no such goal. On the contrary, it was established for a period that the target was an increase in electricity prices, followed by an increase in electricity charges year after year. Today's government began its work with a strong cut in the electricity charge – a cut that was not supported by the interpellant party at the outset, but on which we fortunately agreed in the additional proposition for the current year's government budget. Having said that, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative for a very timely and important debate, and I note that the Progress Party excels in its absence when we are discussing the energy policy of the future. That's interesting. There are no quick solutions in this case. The NVE forecasts prior to the invasion of Ukraine showed that we are going to have a sustained high electricity price up to 2023. The war in Ukraine does not make this less topical — on the contrary. On the part of the Centre Party, we are fundamentally concerned that Norwegian households should not be made clients of power support, housing support and social support. In this case, this winter must be said to be an exceptional state of energy policy. The quality of our society has been based on universal arrangements. Electricity is a social asset in a country that has large renewable energy resources, located far north, with long winters, often low temperatures and long darkness. It is therefore important to continue working along two tracks. The short-term, up to the spring of 2023, will ensure that people, business and industry have the security and predictability of paying the electricity bill. We have solved this during this winter by reducing the electricity charge in the winter months. We have developed an exceptional power support system for households, and solutions for the gardening industry, volunteering and agriculture. The situation of these groups, as well as business and industry, is continuously monitored and the need for further action is assessed. The electricity support scheme for households will also be evaluated in line with the Storting decision. The second track is to put in place an energy policy that ensures that we have the security of ample, clean and reasonable force. First stop on that track was fixed on the Hurdals platform – that new export cables to the rest of the world should not be built during this government. In addition, we need a powerful expansion of new clean power when we are to phase out fossil energy in the future and build new industries. The strong government’s commitment to sea wind is a good measure to achieve the goal. In addition, we have to start by picking the fruit that hangs at the bottom. This is about large-scale energy efficiency improvement. It is about upgrading and exploiting the added hydropower as efficiently as possible. We can't afford not to. It is about using the bioenergy resources that this country has, and it is about increasing the production of e.g. solar power and some wind power on land. Only here is there a potential of at least 20 TWh. The government has also announced an additional message for the energy message. It will guide us in how we can make even better use of our energy resources. In addition, the government has recently reduced an energy commission that has been commissioned to identify energy needs and to propose increased energy production. The Commission shall also look at the potential for energy efficiency improvement and how external links affect security of supply and the price picture. The work of the Commission shall be clear as early as the end of this year. The aim is that Norway will continue to have surplus power production and that Norwegian industry and electricity customers will have ample access to reasonable renewable energy in the future. The centre party looks forward to the Commission’s reviews and conclusions. The previous government, as we have been to before today, was commissioned by the Stortinget a year ago to assess measures against high electricity prices. Nothing was done. Right today is trying to talk away that decision as if it only applied to the snow that fell last year, I kept saying – but that's what's the problem, that it didn't fall snow last year. So the truth is that nothing was done, despite the fact that that decision should have been interpreted beyond what was literally done. The result was in any case that when the Workers' Party and the Centre's party joined, no preliminary work was done to prevent high electricity prices, as today's situation has given. On the contrary, the answer from the Right and the Advance Party has been more market, more free slip and even closer integration with markets that will drive the price up in Norway. The entrance to this interpellation was how we can prevent us from standing in the same place as today in winter 2022-2023. I believe that the government is well-informed about this multi-track work, both in the short term and through long-term changes in energy policy, which ensures that Norwegian households and Norwegian business do not become clients, but must be secured sufficiently clean and reasonable power as a social asset in the future. That's what this basic thing is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6529	It is true, as the interpellant has pointed out, that Norway's watercourse and energy directorate trace high prices out of the year. They did, too, before the war broke out. Power analysts also estimate that the price will be more than 70 ø/kWh for a long time to come. This is the same amount that triggered power support in the government's own power package. At that time, in December last year, the government described prices above 70 centimetres/kWh as exceptionally high. That's a description that we share in Red. There are exceptionally high electricity prices when the price exceeds 70 ø/kWh in Norway, and it sounds strange in the light of developments since October, November, December last year. Neither wages nor social security benefits have grown as much as the electricity prices, as I had in the previous debate as well. In other words, we have experienced real wage cuts for ordinary people and people with bad advice from before. Power prices reinforce differences and create poverty, and there is no reason to believe that these prices will fall by the first as long as prices are controlled by the market, even in the light of the events of the last week, the energy crisis that could potentially result from Putin’s attack on Ukraine, and related sanctions. Red thinks we have to regulate the price on the production side. Our proposal for a maximum electricity price of 35 kWh – i.e. three times the concession price on electricity, the cost of producing renewable energy in Norway today – needs to be combined with the obligation to discover producers and more stringent export regulation when water storage is tight. We are facing a dark future, not just in the sense of transfer. People are even more likely and over time to have to turn off the lights and lower the temperature. We can't have it like that, because energy is still a fundamental need, even in times of crisis. That is why power generation must be regulated much more stringently than it is today, and we must withdraw political, democratic control. So to the interpellation text and the proposal from SV: We in Red believe that there are some problems, and I will describe them. We already have two state-owned companies that manage power today, Statnett and Statkraft, with executive salaries that are mildly voiced, so I don't understand why SV will not take more stringent control and govern these companies more politically than to set up another state-owned actor for the state to negotiate with the state. Raymond Johansen in Oslo, from the Workers' Party, has arranged for more direct control of Hafslund, of which the Municipality of Oslo is the owner. The second and, in fact, more fundamental problem of using the market power advocated by the representative Haltbrecken is that it will be limited as long as we are linked to larger and more expensive price ranges than those we have been accustomed to when we have had exchanges with other Nordic countries, and not as much with Europe – England, Germany and the Netherlands. When prices go up, the fixed price also goes up. It's this the power-processing industry also fears right now. Although they have fixed-price contracts, they must be renegotiated and, if prices are still high and unstable, the new fixed-prices will also be abnormally high. We can build down nature, put all protected watercourses in pipes, and it still won't be enough to bring prices down to the level they've been at, which has served the mainland industry, which is electrified from before. The power price doesn't go above it. The situation we are in now requires greater democratic, political control, not less. The importance of fair distribution and security of supply must not give way to market liberalism's hirings and attacks on nature, which, unfortunately, would mean more power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6546	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising an important debate. It is even more topical now than when the interpellation was promoted a month ago, given the brutal attack war that Russia is now leading in Ukraine. In contrast to the previous speeches, which are largely opposed to all the new build-up of power, I believe that one of the solutions in the long term is to build up considerably more force to prevent us from getting back into such a situation, and to ensure that we have the opportunity to have ample, clean and reasonable force, which should be a goal for Norway, and which is definitely a goal for the Right. We need to maintain the competitive advantage that this has been for industry, for other businesses and for most people and households in Norway also in the years to come, and we have a fantastic potential to achieve it. Especially in marine wind, we can build substantially new power generation, and in an area of only 70 times 70 kilometers, we can produce enough sea wind, corresponding to the entire production of Norway's hydropower. It sounds illusory, but Scotland has issued 17 wind farms, with a combined installed power of 25 GW, approaching the overall installed power output of hydropower generation, and Norway has a significantly greater potential than that. We have Europe's best wind resources, and we have to make sure that there is enough power and momentum in the sea wind effort to achieve this. Then it can't be based on radials alone, so I hope and believe that the Senterparte will not get through so that there will be the future expansion model of sea wind on the base, because then there won't be any of the potential that lies there. There will be a reduced, much less bet, and much less force available. It is fully possible to set up these hybrid cables in such a way that we get a profitable bet, but it does not have unintended consequences for the Norwegian power market. We also have to make sure to advance in land wind where it is locally accepted. There is still work to be done to amend the Planning and Building Act, and I hope that the government has full pressure on it. It is well at the intersection of KDD, now called, and OED, and my experience as a government councillor is that when something is at the intersection of two departments, additional vigilance from the government council is required to follow it up and ensure that there is sufficient momentum. So that's the tip given to the state council that's present today. In the case of hydropower, we turned the tax system into a cash-flow tax model that should facilitate a significant upgrade of hydropower plants. We need to build more networks to ensure that the power flows rationally in Norway and that it reaches the areas where there is a need. There are many areas, not least for example: in the West, where they have surplus power in the region, but where it is the network that is the problem and prevents good industrial projects from being realised, for example: Then we also have to look at what contribution, for example. solar, geothermal, increased use of district heating in our cities can be to relieve our electricity grid, and not least an additional measure. Then I must be allowed to visit the representative Myhrvold, for his understanding of history I must say is a little special. I've taken this up before, but his speech points remain the same. There has been a broad consensus on the power system we have built in Norway in the last 30 years. Not just that, the central part has been in the driver's seat to design the power system we have today. It is a fair matter that the centre party has now, at the last turn, taken a new position, but to present this as that the centre party has always thought that this system has been wrong, so it is not correct. On the contrary, it was Eivind Reiten who promoted the Energy Act in its time. It was Terje Riis-Johansen who signed that we should have a North Sea net in Norway. It was Ola Borten Moe who signed the two new cable agreements with the United Kingdom and England. And it was Marit Arnstad who put in the energy commission after the previous episode with very high power prices, where the power costs 12 kroner in mid-Norway an hour in 2010-2011, and concluded that we had to have more cables to land outside the Nordic region. This was also followed up, through the measures I just mentioned, by the Stoltenberg II government and further by the Solberg government. There has been a broad consensus on this, and Norway has served well for 30 years. It is also important, so changes that we are making now, must not in any way reject what is good with the system, but we must ensure that people and businesses have security and predictability, and that we have sufficient clean and reasonable energy to keep energy prices low in the future as well. Then I register that it is again referred to the decision that was made last February. So that was not the wording of the decision to which the representative Myhrvold refers. We probably don't agree on this, but he can go back and read it, and then we can take it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6561	We have high electricity prices, and we have had a good time, but I do not agree that it is the market that makes us have the high electricity prices. It is true that foreign tables affect price, that power from land can affect price, and that there is little water in the pool affects price, but primarily the high electricity price there is now due to high gas prices outside Europe. One side is that you haven't filled up the stocks that you had, but the main reason is that Russia and Putin have held back gas supplies to Europe for a long time. They've stuck to the lowest commitment, and that's what's done to get very high prices in Europe, which affects the power prices here. Now that we are in a completely new situation with the attack on Ukraine, we will not – and Europe will not – have more Russian gas. Now it's about getting as little as possible, as part of the sanctions regime that we're going to have in place. It is clear that it is going to make prices high also in the future, and that makes us in a completely new situation, also from the Norwegian side. I hope that the Council of State will ensure that, when we look at the Energy Commission, and they will present their work, they will also have the task of looking at the Norwegian power system against the completely new security policy situation that we now have in Europe, both to support the struggle that Ukrainians are now facing – for their freedom and democracy – but also to support Europe under Europe so that Europe becomes less dependent on Russian gas. Yes, right now they have to remove the purchase completely, if that's possible. But I also hope that we will support Europe in the transition we have to undergo, which is the second major task we are facing. The UN climate report came on Monday, and we must support the fact that Europe is meeting its climate objectives more quickly, and this interaction with the Norwegian energy system is even more important. So from the left: the discussion we have about the foreign tables is a problem, that you don't want any more, like from the Hurdal platform, to say no to hybrid cables, even if it's necessary to get a large sea window construction now and to drive it forward, I think you have to go away from it. If there is something we need now, there is more integration with the rest of Europe, including the energy system, in order to contribute to the conflict facing Russia, in order to avoid the purchase of gas, but also to contribute to the transformation that we need to achieve the climate goals we are going to have in the future. Then, of course, we have to work with our energy system. As the representative of Astrup said, we've shifted the hydropower, so that it's now easier with upgrades within the hydropower. And it works; there are many projects coming. We need to scale up the sea wind effort, back to what the previous government laid down in the South North Seas. There's no reason to hold back, even with hybrid cables. We need Swedish conditions for solar energy. There are many countries where we see solar energy being expanded in a great way. We need to learn from the systems and the framework conditions that they have in order for us to do the same here, and we need to reach the ENEE measures of 10 TWh, which we have adopted in the Energy Communication – that was probably in 2016 or 2015 – in order to achieve that in 2030. Then it is important that we do not forget the other areas that are important: biogas must be there, district heating must still be heavy, we must look at the possibility of geothermal heating, and everything else – yes, even wave power and tidal projects, on which there are also initiatives in Norway. They must still be there. We're also going to achieve our climate goals. This means that the emission reductions, including on the base, we have to deal with them. 50 pst. is absolutely necessary to allow Norway to cut 55 pst. by 2030. Force from land is one of the solutions. More sea wind is another. It must be propelled forward, whether it is bottom-mounted or floating, towards the platforms. The third point, however, is what the Left has proposed, which lies within the Committee, that we must have more CO 2 capture and storage from the gas power stations on the base. Otherwise the math doesn't go up and we don't get to all of the measures that we have. And then we have to support those who have a hard time because of high power prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6589	I would like to thank those who have taken part in the debate. I am pleased that the Council of State and the Government say that they will not exclude any proposals in their work with the additional communication to the Energy Communication. If there is one thing this winter has shown us, it is the importance of having a public ownership of power generation. It makes us more able to control than if it was private owned, and it also gives us the opportunity to distribute to the population the increased income from the sky-high power prices. That is why I hope that the government in its additional communication will also look at the possibility of extending public ownership to power generation to the wind power generation we have in Norway today. Unfortunately, wind power is not subject to the same rules of public ownership as the high hydropower is, and there is a need to do something about it. Several of the representatives have been involved in the terrible war in Ukraine. We also had a round in Stortinget yesterday where I think some of the parties are unfortunately trying to serve very lightly solutions to Europe's dependence on Russian gas. Proposals for either the expansion of the Oscar Wisting field or more exploration activities will not solve the challenges facing Europe today. It will only help in many years, and it will also contribute to an increased climate crisis. What we need to do is to contribute to the energy conversion Europe is doing, and to ensure that it builds up more renewable energy, and we can also contribute to solar photovoltaics and energy efficiency. So the state council quoted the world's foremost poet and musician, Bob Dylan. He even went electrically in his time, and it did not happen without significant protests. Now when the government is going to promote its additional message, I hope we don't have to draw up another quote from the same Bob Dylan, which says: ‘Even the president sometimes must have to stand naked.’ [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6603	I'll start by thanking you for a good debate. It shows that the Storting has many common objectives, namely to ensure that we have ample access to renewable energy to meet the needs we have, both to meet our climate objectives and to ensure a competitive industry and good welfare for our citizens, which is, of course, streamlined. There are some things in the debate that I would like to comment on. I must admit that when the representative Marhaug, a little strawberry-like, argues that it does not help to put all the protected watercourses in the pipe, I think that is exactly what we have said very clearly that we should not. We've said we should turn all the stones. When we shut down the Energy Commission, we wanted, among other things. that it should look at how Norway is affected by energy markets in rapid change, and at prospects for the development of power consumption, so that we can meet the needs it implies. We asked them to look at the potential for socio-economically profitable power generation. We asked them to look at security of supply perspectives, and we asked them to look at key conflicts of interest in energy policy. We said that energy efficiency improvement should be an important part of the Commission’s mandate and that the Commission should assess the development of security of supply in force. However, they shall base the protection plan for watercourses on the work. Maybe that's because other kind of power development, which is what we're going to go for, sea wind deployment, is the big perspective for. In this context, I would like to say that we have started those investigations, among other things. on a web at sea, as the previous government, of which the representative Elvesuen was a part, only announced in Energy for work – long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources, Report. Paragraph 36 for 2020-2021. We have also forced the start of this by notifying us that we are taking the first 1500 MW from Southern North Sea II directly into the country. It will require the expansion because the web at sea has not been explored or processed. We've also said that we should look for new areas, because we're sharing the notion that there's a lot of people in there that it can give a lot of new power to our system. It's very important to achieve our climate goals, but also to have the strength to do what we're going to do. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6626	We have had a big choice where the voters clearly wanted a new course for Norway. Security, trust and proximity are the new line of Labour Party-Center Party government. Preparedness and services near people across the country are essential for success. Recruitment of qualified people, increased trust in professionals in the first line and that critical health professionals do not have to run off to do a good job are among the changes that need to be made. The Hurdal platform, where the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have pointed out their efforts over the next four years, says among other things. that the government will: Step up the number of new places of study, with a stepping-up plan for areas with special skills needs, such as teaching, nursing, real-life, ICT and medicine provide a comprehensive report on vocational training courses; give municipalities and health-care establishments the obligation to provide places of practice for the professional professions, such as nurse and teacher training; This testifies to an offensive government that will start to ensure both short-term and long-term measures to improve the recruitment of critical health professionals throughout the country. I look forward to hearing the Council of State proceed. From the side of the Stortinget and the Center Party, we have for a long time tried to improve the condition of both the profession, health workers and the recruitment in general. The lack of nurses and doctors is about to go on standby. No later than 20 May 2021, the Request Decision became No. 941, on the stepping-up plan for medical, medical, medical and psychological places of study adopted in the context of the management communication. In its entirety, the proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a stepping-up plan for medical, health, nursing and psychology study places. The plan shall contain both concrete measures for the establishment of adequate places of study at the educational institutions and measures to ensure that students have a practical place in the health sector. The plan should also include measures that make it attractive for health workers to be in the sector.» The story awaits that the Ministry of Knowledge will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way, but several things are all clear. Policies prevent education and training of adequate health professionals. The policy issue of health education needs to be addressed in order to increase the number of newly trained health professionals, who are also taking the Hurdal platform inwards. At the same time, we know that there is a desire to offer more practice than institutions and municipalities can do today, and that it is an economic and practical issue. For the period 2014-2021, the Stortinget has adopted approx. 1 700 health and social study places. We know that too many people don't complete the education they're starting. In the same way, there are so many graduates that we also know that too many people go to occupations other than those for which they are directly trained. This also applies to professions other than health, but when it comes to critical preparedness and health care throughout the country, it is serious. When the Stortingen dealt with employment relevance notification, there was a broad consensus in the Stortingen that training practices need to be strengthened. This will improve the exploitation of existing educational capacities. Good quality in practice is important for the learning outcomes of students and for the motivation for future work in municipalities and specialist health services. Nursing training is also regulated by the Professional Qualifications Directive, which imposes detailed requirements on the scope and arenas of traineeships and makes the practical situation of nursing training extra challenging. Dialogue with other EEA countries on changes, such as the ability to count simulation as a practice, may be an option. The pressure on health services has been extremely high in recent years, but even before the pandemic, the recruitment of doctors and nurses was a problem in several places. I therefore repeat the question in conclusion: How will the Council of State continue to work to improve the recruitment of critical health professionals in healthcare throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6660	Making sure that there is a good match between access to skills and the needs of society is one of my most important tasks as Minister of Research and Higher Education. The importance of good access to competences across the country is rarely more evident than when it comes to critical health professionals, such as drug users. nurses and doctors. That's why this issue is something I've been engaged to since I joined. Nav's company survey in 2021 suggested that we need 5,350 nurses, 1,450 specialist nurses and 1,300 medical specialists. We know that the demand for health and care services will increase in the coming time. This government will build high-quality professional training throughout the country. Education and lifelong learning must be available where people live. That's how we can make it easier for people to fill their skills and get more education. This is a force not only for individuals, but for society at large. Enterprises, businesses and municipalities throughout the country can recruit more widely and gain access to more professionals. We're getting more, and we're getting older. As a consequence of changed demography, the SSB estimates that the number of annual works needs to be increased by 35 pst. towards 2035 in order to meet the identified needs for health and care services. In this case, health and care services will consume almost half of the labour force’s growth. In order to meet the needs of critical health professionals across the country, efforts are needed in several areas. We need to think about health services in order to make better use of the labour force and recruit and keep people in work. As a research and higher education minister, I prioritise increased capacity in nursing and medical training. With the creation of several places of study, more people are able to become nurses and society is more likely to meet its needs. From the fall we get 500 new places to study in nursing. In addition, the government has increased the capacity for medical training in North Norway by 15 new study places in the state budget for the current year. The Government's intention is to give priority to increasing educational capacity in professions where we are experiencing an increasing lack of competence, I believe is a clear and important political signal. I have great expectations that the university and higher education sectors will fulfill their social mission in this field. At the same time, other social actors have to contribute. Practice areas in health and social education are an example of a bottleneck in which it needs to be resolved. There is now a greater work going on here, where we look at how we can increase the responsibilities and capacities of municipalities in practical studies, and there I work well with both my colleagues in the government and, not least, with KS. Several other major projects are also on the stairs. I would like to highlight in particular the Health Personnel Commission, which the Minister of Health and Care appointed before Christmas. The Commission shall provide us with a comprehensive and knowledge-based assessment of the need for personnel and competences by 2040. The Hurdals Platform government announced a major report on the training of professionals. It is an important next step in improving the recruitment of critical health professionals in healthcare across the country. We're going to have world-class healthcare, and it's the people who work there, who take care of it. Improving the recruitment of health professionals for health and care services across the country requires efforts in several areas. Education, including continuing education, recruitment, service innovation and good trades and working environments play an important role in our success.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6685	I thank you for a good answer. There are many issues that affect the pressure on the health care system and the employees there. Now we're in an extraordinary situation where the corona pandemic has negatively affected society in many ways. At the same time, we need to recognise both the problems we face and the solutions and measures needed to improve the situation. It's about the provision of health to people, it's about large professional groups that we have to recognise the value of in Norwegian society. For employees, this is a case of inter alia: on professional development, good working conditions and the working environment, clear management and continuing training. For nurses, concrete studies show that there is a link between professional participation and continuing training. Furthermore, it is found that the quality of treatment is important for recruitment, and that skills-enhancing measures and opportunities to develop the service with which the worker is working are important for remaining in the job. Full-time, permanent, good follow-up of new employees, safe working conditions, career, life-phase approach and senior policy are also included. Many major questions remain unanswered: Can municipalities and health businesses do more? How will the government’s notified notification of vocational training contribute? Will a multi-education escalation plan be feasible? Higher education capacity bets are dealt with in the annual budgetary processes. In the work on a new long-term plan for higher education and research, it is also natural to look at critical points for Norwegian research, competence and development — as in the health sector. Governments also promote the Health Personnel Commission, which will be interesting to see and follow further. The size of the population has high expectations for further work and looks forward to more good debates on these issues. I look forward to several representatives sharing their views on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6698	I would like to start by thanking Mr Strand for not only a constructive interplay on an important theme, but also, of course, for constructive and good questions. I think Marit Knutsdatter Strand is quite right in that it is not a simple answer to this, but rather a combination of many different measures that in sum make us succeed. Our biggest challenge in the coming period is changing demography, smaller children's coal, more elderly people and a greater need for health and care services in a broad sense. There is also reason to believe that those who now age and demand services will at least not have lower expectations and lower demands than what we already experience in Norwegian health and care services – rather the opposite, I believe. What I can do is to increase the education capacity, to make sure that the education courses are present throughout the country, and that people can take these courses where they live. As we have to exploit a larger proportion of the Norwegian population to ensure this necessary competence, it also means that the training courses have to be organised differently. They have to be flexible, and they have to be geographically dispersed. Both components are needed to reach new groups of educational provision, new groups able to fill badly needed places within the skills needs of society. Let me briefly mention that practical areas are a bottleneck, as I also mentioned in my introduction. I experience a very constructive attitude both in the specialist health service and in the municipal health service and in the KS, simply because for both of these levels we see very clearly that without increasing the flow of education, and without increasing the capacity, their ability to ensure good and sufficient competence in the future will decline. I believe the answer to the question from Marit Knutsdatter Strand is: Is it possible to do more? - Yeah. Shall we do more? - Yeah. Is there going to be more? - Yeah. I think quite simply that the work we are now doing on a broad front, to a significant extent, is going to bear fruit during the current growing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6717	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for raising this question. Perhaps one of the most important things to do in the future in the department responsible for higher education and research is to find good solutions to train enough people for health care. I myself was a newly educated teacher in 2001, and why do I bring it up in this interpellation debate? Well, then I was on a course on inclusive working life in the municipality I worked in, and I heard a talk from an older guy I don't remember the name of. His point then was that if we didn't find solutions in ten years to educate more people in health care than we did then, we would have massive challenges to solve our societal mission in 20-30 years. Now we're in the middle of it, and it's clear that it hasn't been done enough to train enough health workers in Norway. If we go to quite a country – to the Municipality of Norway and the districts, but also here in Oslo – we see a major and precarious crisis in the case of lack of nurses, in the case of lack of medical skills and lack of health professionals. One of the solutions is to educate more people. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party and the Centre will provide several places of study in the field. I think the whole of Kommune-Norge is also happy, because when you're going to solve your community mission in the municipalities, like providing health and care services to the elderly or to the sick, you need people to do the job. Several municipalities are experiencing today not having applicants for jobs that are absolutely necessary to solve the societal challenge. It's not possible for them to figure out how to solve it. Of course, one of the answers is to train more people. However, in meeting the higher education sector — and in the case of colleges engaged in both nursing and professional education — the major challenge is practice places, which several before me have faced. It's not like the willingness to educate more in the sector is not there, because there's room in the classrooms, there's enough college and university professionals to educate more, but it stops at the practice sites. One thing is that municipalities must be given the obligation to give places of practice, but it is also important that health businesses are given a special responsibility to do so to an even greater extent. It's about economics. It's about how we prioritise the use of money. But by doing so, we can solve the mission of giving the care services that society is actually going to provide. It's good that we start with more places of study, but more departments have to see this in context, we're going to be able to do this in a proper and good way. As I see it, it's a cross-sectoral and important task for the Ministry of Local Affairs, the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare to find the solutions that make us get enough health workers in the future, at different levels. The fact that there are more places to study is a start, but it is also a challenge for institutions that there are not enough practical places available, although there is a strong desire to do so. I will end by saying that, in particular, nursing training is well suited to having decentralised solutions. A large number of municipalities contact me and want to get places to study decentralisedly. Many have it, and that's what carries the municipalities and makes them able to solve their societal mission, and the fact that we're able to do it even more, I think I'll be able to solve some of the challenges we'll have in the future. I am also very pleased that our government is putting a real pressure on getting to a decentralised education, not just to spread jobs in the districts, but to solve the actual task that municipalities have in the districts, which is to provide good health and care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6732	Thank you to the interpellant for addressing this important topic, and thank you to the Council of State for a good and, in my view, offensive response. Had this even been an extraordinary situation after two years of corona, it would have been so said, but it is unfortunately not. What we are now talking about, the challenge of recruiting health professionals across the country, is becoming an ordinary situation – and he will not be less serious for years to come. This is a challenge that is getting worse and worse year by year, on the one hand, linked to demography, on which the Council of State was faced. We also know that in a global economy, there is a limit on the proportion of the total workforce that can work in health and care services. We also depend on many jobs in the private sector in business – we will need many, many more hands in the future – and the recruitment challenges in large parts of our business, not least in the districts, are actually as demanding as they are in the area we are talking about here. It makes this situation extremely complex, and it also means that there is no single answer. There are a lot of answers that both the inter-pellant and the Council of State have in mind. What we can do, at least, is make it easier to take health education throughout life, regardless of every cage in the country, by putting in more structured, streamlined, and decentralised models to do it. We had a similar theme up in an interpellation a couple of weeks ago, and I want to repeat the reward I gave to the government and the council then: this is an area that has been seized, and I think that's very good. It's important. They decentralized models in this area, especially when we talk about nurses, are important, because many of the current candidates are people who are already in full employment, have families and kids, and are forced to study alongside normal family life. The fact that it is well arranged to do it, where a cage, is the difference between taking a nurse's education or not. So getting it into place is one of the most handy and concrete things we can do. I have been a spokesperson for ten years and worked to try to put in place decentralised nursing training. I then made an interesting observation: that this was extremely demanding within the old high-spherical model with small high-spheric balls with very little capacity to rig the supply beyond the basic supply that rolled and went. We were so lucky in Sogn and the Fjords for a couple–three years ago to get into something new, called the Hochskul in the West, a larger merged high-spheric sphere that some were against, but many were too. Then this became much easier, because one had a larger hive with larger muscles to rig decentralised models, which were flexible and could be rigged over a larger area. I also believe that we must be honest and open up that we cannot solve this only by recruiting. At the same time as we work on recruitment, we are forced to put in place a number of other measures. It's about technology. We are forced to apply technology in a lot of areas of health care, where we can relieve and clear up room for hands to work on hot tasks. We can save a lot of money in health by using new technologies. We are also forced to take some highly demanding discussions on the division of labour and the prioritisation of tasks between health care professionals – between doctors and nurses, between nurses and health professionals. We are forced to take those debates, even if we know that they are difficult. Just to take one concrete example: we know that in Sweden there must be five intensive nurses behind each intensive bed. In Norway, there are 11 or 12 intensive nurses behind each intensive bed. There's one of a lot of examples that we're forced to go in and look at critically how we're dealing with this. We are also forced to work on the practical problem, as the representative Selnes addresses. It's a common challenge. It cannot only be determined by government. It simply requires a change of posture throughout the municipality of Norway to how important it is that we set up practical places when there is an increase in capacity in education and in other areas. And we have a huge unused resource in those who are out of work today. I'm glad the Council of State highlighted it so strongly. What we can do among both immigrants who come to Norway, and others who are currently outside the labour market, is to help them quickly get into health education. There's a lot to do. We've got something in place in some parts of the country, but there we can do a lot more. Thank you for the initiative and an exciting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6755	Thank you for two good contributions from two previous rapporteurs. It is nice to hear that we are agreed to both recognise the need and to lift the measures. Recruitment of qualified people and critical health professionals is essential for having good preparedness and services close to people. There are many interesting questions that we could spend more time on, among other things. the tasks to be performed by whom and the categories of professionals to be included. The Hurdal platform has many points that we could spend more time on, and has many points that testify to the need for both multidisciplinary and cross-sectoral efforts. I wanted to draw out a couple of points. A more serious working life, an increase in free income for municipalities and basic funding for hospitals, as well as a better social and geographical distribution are among the priorities of the government. A comprehensive trust reform will also contribute. The Health Personnel Commission will also be essential, where representation of the parties, healthcare and educational institutions is to promote measures to train, recruit and maintain qualified health professionals. For the educational field and the state councils that are present here today, decentralised and flexible education is not least a significant contribution. I think the Council of State posts testify to an offensive government going on and everything is going on, both with short-term and long-term measures to improve recruitment. For the Central Party and the Biggest, we believe that the work on lifting this is enormously important, and that there is a need to improve the situation in order to ensure that the health care dropout does not exceed what it is, and to ensure that the recruitment takes place throughout the country, so that the citizens of Norway have access to good health services close by. Where a person lives, or the size of the wallet, shall have nothing to say for which services he has access to. There have been even more good points drawn up than I'm adding up here, but in sum, I think the most important thing is that we agree to work in the future. We agree to achieve a better development than the one we've seen, especially in the last few years. Thank you very much for your efforts. They're critically important, and we hope to recruit, so they'll get even a little bit better time in their working life. People will notice more security, trust and proximity throughout the country, I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6766	Thanks for more good posts and constructive recordings. I really think this is a field where the government and the Storing have a good basis for working constructively and properly in the future and the years to come. However, I would like to draw a comment of a slightly superior nature, and that is that we now have the lowest unemployment rate of very, very long. We also have the highest employment rate in the Norwegian population of more than 10 years. We have reason to believe that the acquisition of foreign labour will be more difficult in the years ahead and the time ahead. I think the pandemic has been an important catalyst or contributor to it. This means that in Norway we need to focus more on ourselves, including in these areas. I think, as many people have said, that it is a reserve to pick up parts of the population — perhaps quite a large part of the population — in order to get more proper skills in the right place at the right time. But I want to underline another, hugely important point, and that is that the labour supply now and in the future is likely to be limited. It's going to make it even more important for us as a society to exploit the labour reserve that we have, in the best way possible. The representative Strand mentioned the trust reform. I think that's a very important contribution to such a picture. Not only is it costly and time consuming with too much bureaucracy, but it also takes unnecessary capacity and time that could have been spent on more constructive things and on practical work. It is an overall goal of this government to make sure that we spend less time on administration, less time on documentation and reporting, and more time that the tasks are actually solved across the country. Discussing different models of decentralised solutions seems very exciting to me. There's a lot of good going on in that field. I think we're going to be able to facilitate both the race and the structure that makes us hit more. I'm going to end by saying that this isn't just a district phenomenon. It is also a phenomenon that will be important for our larger population centres and for the big cities. There are also many who will need flexible courses of education, in order to be able to take exactly the same journey that we now hope to facilitate, well spread across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-03.ana.ud338e6779	The debate on substance is closed. 10 is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
