ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e124	Two permit applications are available: from the Socialist Left Group on welfare leave of the representative of the Audun Lighthouse from 21 January until further notice by the Group of the Socialist Left on leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Mona Fagerås, with effect from 21 January and until further notice, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hordaland: Sara Bell For Northern Ireland: Christian Torset
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e162	Sara Bell and Christian Torset are present and will take their seats. The representative, Mr Rauand Ismail, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e169	On behalf of the representatives of Sofie Marhaug, Birgit Oline Kjerstad and myself, I would like to propose that protected watercourses remain protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e174	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e179	On behalf of the representatives of Olug Vervik Bollestad, Dag-Inge Ulstein and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on coronary compensation to ideal hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e184	The representative, Mrs Hussein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e189	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Grete Wold, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal on health care for paperless migrants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e194	The representative, Mr André Johnsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e200	On behalf of the representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Per-Willy Amundsen and myself, I would like to propose a representative amendment to the penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e205	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that the cases are No. 1–9 on the current map has not been out of the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours, cf. Paragraph 46 of the Rules of Procedure. However, the President will propose that matters be dealt with. No objections have been raised against this. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e227	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Pollestad, for the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e236	The government and government are busy helping companies through the crisis. We are busy using a lack of tools to secure those parts of the business that face challenges as a result of coronary intervention. It is important to stress that the situation today is different from what he was when the Corona hit the country in March 2020. There are large parts of Norwegian business that go well. There are pressure trends in the Norwegian economy. We have to consider this when designing tools. Then there was a demand that a wish be able to use wage support. There were tradesmen who had been through the round of layoffs. A fearful consequence of repressing people into permacy. One saw that with a support you could keep people at work and at work. In cooperation with the parties in record time, the government is designing a draft wage support – a wage support that, fortunately, seems to be bringing about a significant uprising in the UK today. But it is worth reminding those who are probably going to point out in the debate that the government has spent a few weeks setting up a payroll scheme, that they have the same parties in government, and put in this room on 19 January 2021, when a decision was taken asking the previous government to design a payroll to keep people in work rather than being permitted. That decision was not followed up, and that is unfortunate. We have made some priorities. We have said that one must choose whether one wants to permit – permitting is an important and good scheme – or whether one wants to use wage support. It is a political priority for workers when we have made that choice. There was a lot of noise around when it was implemented. Now it looks like more and more people see that it was a wise priority. The Workers' Party-Center Party government will continue to follow the crisis closely. We will come up with measures that are adapted to the situation. I can guarantee that the scene from September 25, when we had dancing government members that celebrate the reopening of Norway, won't repeat themselves with this government. We have focused on helping business through the crisis. So I'd like to make a proposal that applies to the implementation of the law, on behalf of the entire committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e249	The representative of Geir Pollestad then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e254	I want to start by thanking the Finance Committee for a quick examination of both this and the next matter we are going to deal with today. It means a lot to people and businesses that the Stortinget contributes to the rapid treatment of these important support schemes, as the Stortinget also did in the previous period. Furthermore, I would like to thank EN for good negotiations, so that we could clarify that a majority supported a strengthening of the government's proposal on wage support before Christmas. This is the first time in the pandemic we have what the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and several other parties have called for – a pay support system that allows us to avoid any lay-offs when the disease protection measures need to be tightened up, as a majority of people asked for, against the votes of the previous government parties, about one year ago today. This time, the Workers' Party-Center Party government put in place a system of days, few weeks, in cooperation with the social partners, a system of right-wing government would neither want nor be able to provide when they put in power. Rapid negotiations with SV agreed on an enhanced system, which we have already seen the results of. Several thousand permit notifications were drawn, and people get to work, the activity is kept up, and employees get to develop their skills. It's good for the employees, and it's good for the companies. The Government has proposed that the scheme last February, and the Stortinge joins it today with a strengthening of the government's proposals for February. I will end with this: I see that the Right, the Advance Party and the Left maintain the proposal that companies should be able to both permit and avail themselves of wage support. I am very pleased that we are not now in a situation where it is completely up to the employers, to the bosses, to point out which colleagues are going to stay at work with wage support, and which colleagues are being promoted, or where a company can permit as many as they would in any case leave, and at the same time get the community's support to have them in any case at work, at work. Then we had an arrangement that primarily benefited the owners, and not both the employees and the businesses, as the Stortinget decides today. Crisis policy shall be fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e269	Even before Christmas, the Right Party invited the government to clarify the principles of the payroll scheme, and a pre-Christmas treatment in Stortinget would give businesses greater predictability and a better decision-making basis. Whether a pay-as-you-go scheme was to be introduced at all seemed unclear for a long time, and there were different signals. There was trouble with what limitations ESA had placed, and which they had not put. But luckily, the government finally chose to listen to the companies, the parties and the opposition on the Stortinget, and there was a pay support scheme. It is good, and it has helped many to get through Christmas without any uncertainty. Wages and salaries support is important in order to prevent enterprises from permitting or cancelling employees because they lose money on the closures that have been caused by national measures for the protection of infection. This is particularly important for companies that have had to keep close in several rounds, with employees who have been on leave, get back to work, and then get a permit again. This applies in particular to restaurants, bars, event agencies, excursions and not least to the tourism industry. I understand very well that a receptionist at a hotel or a cook at a restaurant does not want to have a job from which they abruptly leave off. For these people to want to be in their jobs and for businesses to be able to take care of their skills, wage support is important. Nevertheless, the pay support scheme should be a supplement rather than an alternative to leavencies. Many enterprises have a complex activity, in which it is desirable in some areas of activity to use the wage subsidy scheme, while for other areas of activity it may be necessary to permit. The government’s all-or-none requirements reduce flexibility and may force some companies to choose the leave for everyone instead of being able to have some on salary support. We want to vote against this requirement and have therefore submitted a loose proposal, together with the Progress Party and the Left, which deals with this point in the law. Instead of accepting the Right invitation to cooperation, the government has chosen to lean on SV and find compromises with them. It is probably good for the inner calm on the left-hand side of Norway, but for the companies and those working there, it would have been better if the government had rather sought broad support. In a crisis situation, it is important to put responsibility and security over the political game and the good press releases. That's why I want to repeat that in the future, too, the door to the Right is open if the government wants to enter into a broad, moderate settlement to deal with situations like our country has now been in the last two years. Finally, I would like to add that public measures to reduce the compensation of employees of enterprises must be used with caution. It has been necessary as a short-term measure, but there may also be jobs that would pass without the aid. Compensation of employees may include labour and inhibit migration, and it is therefore important that the scheme closes rapidly when the disease protection measures are terminated. With that, I will address the proposals that have been put forward by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e284	The representative Tina Bru then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e289	It is very good that the Stortinget can now adopt a wage support scheme, but it has taken a long time from the start of the process until the decision we are about to take today. One might say that it was only when the government realized that there was a majority in the Storting that they took hold of the dialogue and discussion with the social partners in order to establish a system. But it is only when the decision is taken that it is final, and it is the decision of the Stortinge that helps to eliminate the uncertainty of those affected by a wage support scheme, like other corona measures. Predictability is also important for all those who remain in a highly uncertain situation. It is otherwise good that the misunderstanding with ESA about EEA legislation was clarified and that the compensation scheme has now been raised to the right level. For the Progress Party, it has been important that we have a fully-fledged system that is not scaled down too quickly, and it is good that we now have a majority for a full-fledged system in February. Economic corona measures where the subsidies are calculated in relation to market failures are far on their way to self-regulatory measures. If the turnover does not fail, there is no need either to apply for or to pay grants. Therefore, it is important that we have a long time horizon — not too long, but not too short — because it gives greater predictability both for businesses and for employees. Unfortunately, the proposed wage support scheme does not provide the necessary flexibility because companies have to choose between two good schemes. It's either–or, but it should be a boat–and. It is difficult for an enterprise to maintain 100 pst. employees whose turnover has fallen by 100 pst. Nevertheless, there may be a need to ensure a minimum crew that provides quick start-up when the situation is normalised. That is why the Progress Party wants flexibility, and we refer to the proposal promoted by the Right, the Progress Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e300	Before Christmas, almost 10,000 people here in Norway were prepared to get a permit from work from the New Year, but due to the consensus presented by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV to introduce a pay support scheme, the permits were avoided. And because of the consensus we got about an enhanced pay support scheme, which we negotiated here in the Stortinget, several thousand more lay-offs were avoided. It has been important here to keep people in work, that people have been able to continue going to work and have been able to contribute and use their efforts and labour. Many of those who prepared to be licensed before Christmas have already been licensed several times in this pandemic and noted the economic and human consequences of it. Setting up a pay support scheme has been important and a priority case for SV for over a year and a half. That is why we have also proposed and raised this issue here in the United Kingdom, but the previous bourgeois government rejected it. That's why I have to say that the criticism that comes from the Right and the Advance Party here sounds somewhat hollow, because I don't think the Advance Party prioritised setting up such a system when they negotiated with the government parties. Then it has been important for SV in this round to ensure that the wage support scheme is not downgraded for February, and that it is better adapted to seasonal holdings. That way, we'll still be able to avoid permitations, we'll make sure that more people will be able to get under the scheme, and that more people will have a job to do. Then it will also be important in the future to set a finish line for the crisis policy we now have. It'll be important in the future to get into a more normal situation. But the precisely wage support system is important for just having a certain type of lock-in effect, which Tina Bru warns against, because the jobs that have been most threatened by permits now, in the outdoor and catering industry and in the hotel industry, are the jobs and the companies that are screaming for skills and that have not been able to hold people. So it's been important now to be able to maintain that competence, make sure that the people you've hired can continue to be in that job. I think there are a lot of people out there who are happy that the Storting now decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e313	Permits are, as you know, a huge cost to the individual. It's better than getting unemployed, but it's a big cost. You go down into income, and you lose what very many of us like quite well; going to work, meeting colleagues and getting allowed to contribute to creating values in society. Permitting is also a very high cost for the state. You have to pay a day's allowance, for example. That's why the payroll scheme in given situations is a very good system, it seems Red, because then the state pays to keep people at work instead of keeping them at home, and that's what we're generally for in several parts of the policy. It is then ironic that today it is almost one year's anniversary since the Stortinget decided that they would have a pay support scheme. It's a little bit like crisis policy that you have to be prepared for crises to happen, not least when you're already in the middle of a pandemic and all epidemiologists say that the viruses can mutate, there can be new waves of infection and new variants of viruses. Therefore, I find it quite annoying that the decision that the Stortinget made a year ago was not followed up by the previous government. I think you should remember that when you discuss that arrangement now. But to say «water under the bridge», it is very good that the wage support system is adopted. What Red has proposed is that it should last longer, until April. It is because throughout the pandemic we have been very concerned that arrangements for workers must have predictability. It is the case with the wage support scheme that there are no sales cases, but it is a predictability and security for workers to know that it is there, so we believe that it should be lasting longer than in February. The second thing we're proposing, which I think is a very good proposal, is to evaluate the wage support system in cooperation with the parties and present a new and improved system. It's a little about how you look at crisis policy, because you have to be the leader was rather than the quick one, and the tools you've had in the toolbox to deal with economic crises have obviously not been good enough, have not been tailor-made for pandemics and have not been accurate enough. That's why you've got it busy. I believe that there may be things about this pay support scheme that may not be perfect, for example. That you're going to be cut off completely from the first heads. It may be that it should be assessed, but it has not been a good time to assess it. Although the Red's proposal to evaluate the scheme and put forward a new scheme does not get a majority, the government has the right to do things even though the Storting has not explicitly asked them to do so, so I recommend to them to do so, because I think you'll be stronger rusted if there's a new wave to the harvest/winter, or if there's a similar type of crisis in three, four, five years. Then I take up the suggestions Red has.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e330	The representative Marie Sneve Martinussen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e336	Now, as we approach the two-year marker for the pandemic, at least here in Norway, there's a lot of rent, there's a lot of employees that's been a lot away from work, and there's a lot of companies that've had it very demanding. So it's also true that there are a few industries that have been frame over and over again, and that experience it as being unfair, but that's the way it is. What is particularly demanding for many of the companies is that it is now beginning to be demanding to keep on adding. There are many, whether they're working on cooking or accepting guests or servers, who are starting to wonder if they're able to stand in a job and in a business where they don't know when they're going to get a permit next time. I start by saying that because, in my view, this is one of the important reasons why it is right now to introduce a pay support scheme. Now it's not just about securing security during the period of leave when it has to happen – it can happen even in non-crisis times – it's about companies being able to hold on to skills, making sure that people have a job to do, and making sure that for as many as possible. This is a debate we have had for almost two months now, and today we are finally going to make a decision. So things have taken time, but at least it's good that a now gathers around solutions that seem to be good, although there's still some political disunity here. It has been a wrangling road, both with the worship and along the way, for example. in the view and notice of what is possible under EEA law and not. It was good that it was prepared, and that we finally got a rough system in place. What remains problematic, in the view of the Left, is that the Government Party and the SV continue to stand firm on the principle of resistance to the possibility of combining permitting agents and wage support instruments. They argue very fundamentally and ideologically for that, simply because employers won't be able to choose between adding. I understand that I can work well as an slogan, but the reality is probably more nuanced than that. In many companies, at least in large companies, there are very many jobs in different job categories in different functions. It is quite simply that for some job categories and some job categories it may be reasonable to make people operate with the necessary maintenance, empowerment, work to be done — things that are possible to do — while for other categories of addendum it may be less meaningful. The point is that combining these two tools would have made one have to permite less. So when you choose to rule out that possibility, you have to permite more. There's a choice – basically – but after my and the Left's views, there should be a more flexible arrangement at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e349	By April 2020, we had adopted the different packages at Stortinget, and there were billet alerts coming in in a great deal. It was up to 276,000 people who were outlawed – a huge number. Last December we began to see signals of a lot more lay-offs, but we now see that early in January this year there were 26,800 lay-offs – a tenth of the number in April 2020, but for the 26,800 it is serious enough. It's always very important to remember when we talk about the big numbers logic, that for them it's all about, it's just as dramatic. But what seems quite clear is that the wage support system has made it less permissive. It seems that there are quite a number of different actors who are going to make use of the scheme and that it has become a little less difficult for those companies and a little easier for the employees of those companies. I was early this week at a hotel in Trondheim where you had originally intended to permit, and you kept less than 300 employees at work instead and drove with training and schooling to make the company even better when they're on their way out of this demanding round. It delights me a lot, but I am also a little surprised when I hear how tall and dark the Progress Party and the Left are. As the bulk of the population in last year – the party of progress was involved, they should – decided that a pay support scheme was wanted in mid-January last year, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right in the government did not follow it up. It is quite important to bear in mind when discussing wage support in the year 2021, that the Left, Right and Christian People's Party did not believe in the means by which they had the power, but that we, the Workers' Party-Center Party-Registration, when we got responsibility, worked closely and quickly together with the NHO, the Works and the LO to put in place a system. With the numbers and forecasts we see now, it seems that there are many people who have used the scheme, who have made it a little less difficult. I am very pleased with the cooperation we have had with SV, which from the very beginning has been concerned with creating security for companies to know that it was a clear majority in Stortinget, a very constructive and good approach from SV in the days it was at worst in December. It did so, for example. The hotel manager I met on Tuesday, could be safe, because he knew it would be a big deal. He could rest on it and secure his employees that they were paid compensation. That's why it's good – after a government that didn't want to – that it now seems like all parties want pay support, and that in practice it also helps people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e365	When we discussed the compensation scheme before Christmas, we had a round in this room related to the dialogue with ESA and what was the room for action within the EEA legislation. What I'm asking is: Now we see again – on another case, which is not about wage support, but is about support for the companies to electricity – that the EEA Agreement is being used as an argument for why it is not possible to support the companies. Then I want to ask the Council of State: what kind of dialogue is that the Council of States has with ESA about this kind of question? How will the Council of States ensure that what they consider to be impossible or feasible in Norway is well-informed? Could the Council of State say a little about what he might have intended to do in the future in order to use the space for action within the EEA Agreement, which the Council of State and his party have very often pointed out that they should be better than the others have been?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e372	First of all, I just have to be told, as the government parties have also been concerned about, that this system that is now being adopted in the Stortinget today must be formally approved by ESA as well. It is not done, but there is nothing to suggest that it will not be approved, because the dialogue was so close for so many rounds before Christmas that we feel sure that it will happen. But it has to happen formally, just to have said it. I experience that during the weeks when this was on last autumn, there was a close and steady dialogue with ESA all the time. But, of course, because you were going to set up a system so fast, because the previous government had not started with such a system, it was under a very great time pressure that you had to have that dialogue. Of course, it was mainly at the office level, i.e. those who are working on the practical device, but also I personally had a direct telephone meeting with the ESA President to clarify the frames, and they are well seen in the settings that are here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e379	The compensation scheme, which is now adopted in Stortinget, provides a maximum grant of 100 pst. trading losses. For an enterprise that loses all activity and turnover, it becomes difficult to keep all employees in the enterprise, and then it becomes fast option 100 pst. Permitting. A flexible combination scheme could ensure that more people remained at work and that businesses could start up faster when the situation normalises. Why is it so important for the government parties, in cooperation with SV, to create such an absolute system where the choice of companies is confronted, in reality is either permacy or wage support? Wouldn't it make more sense to have a flexible solution that would ensure that you had a minimum crew and that would make companies better able to start up quickly when you see sales coming back?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e386	One of the best things about the Norwegian model is that you have close dialogue with the different parties, and those who represented the workers were very concerned that if you put such a system where you could choose, it could give some unfortunate results. Now I did not see that debate, but I was referred to yesterday that the NHO also sees that this has helped many of the companies. So we'll be able to see afterwards how this has turned out. At least it seems like, as we see the numbers now, that it has turned out as we thought, that a lot of companies, when you saw the scheme in its full width, just chose to keep people in work, like at the hotel I was earlier this week. But then it's natural that when this round is over, you take an evaluation and look at what are the strengths and weaknesses, and what you can learn, because this quickly came into place. Therefore, of course, one must also look at possible improvement points for subsequent rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e393	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e412	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e419	The frame around this case is the same as in the case of wage support. It's that one shapes action at a time and in a situation that's very different from the one that stood in at the beginning of the pandemic. There's a lot of business going well. There are clear trends towards pressures in the economy. It has an effect on the way a scheme is aligned. At the same time, more knowledge has been gained about how the schemes work and how they can be adapted. This is also the case for the compensation scheme. For the government party, it was important to speed up the compensation system when the infectious diseases began to rise and action was needed. Then one has made some changes. Among other things, some added leads have been associated with excesses. One has made some assessments of what's hard, easy: So far out in the pandemic, what's going to be the measuring point that a meter is measuring up to? That's demanding. It was easy – or relatively easy – to deal with by 2020, when one could easily compare with 2019. It's a lot of hard times. And then we've also got reactions when it's left over, that it has some slightly demanding effects. There has been a dialogue with the players in the business world, and there is also a flexibility in the system as it is now. Then the government is busy with trust and a society based on trust. We have introduced some exchange requirements. We trust that the business community that accepts these schemes will not accept one hand and exchange itself with the other. It's a little surprising to see that we have a party on Stortinget that uses notes to write down how the business community can cheat away from this trust. The Right Party indicates that one can circumvent the exchange ban, for example: «by saving funds on the holding and withdrawing funds after the expiry of any dividend restrictions». I don't think it's the job of big business representatives to tell business how to avoid the trust that all of these schemes have to build on. Because it'll be possible to fool the system if one goes in for it, and I don't think it takes a lot on the Storting, even if they're never so much in opposition, to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e432	In this case too, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its speedy examination and thanking it in particular for good and constructive negotiations. The Coronapandemic hit us as an extraordinary situation almost two years ago, and it has been and is true that the community is making extraordinary efforts to ensure life and health, people's income and that they have a job to go to. Therefore, it was important that the government quickly presented financial measures at the end of last year, once again requiring interventional measures to protect life and health. It provides safety for workers and businesses. The purpose of the compensation mechanism is to avoid bankruptcy and to ensure the basis for safe and good jobs in the future. The size decided today to reintroduce an adjusted version of the scheme, which will apply from November to February. The scheme is now becoming more focused on small and medium-sized enterprises. Maximum aid amount is set at 7,5 million. kr per month in December and January and 4 mill. kr in November and February. The maximum compensation is reduced from 85 to 70 pst. in February, and an own support for lost stocks is also provided, which is important, inter alia, for: the serving industry. Community funds shall be used responsibly and in a manner which benefits ordinary peoples and society as a whole. For this reason, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have, throughout the pandemic, been set up to impose fair requirements and restrictions on the support schemes established by the Community. The grips of the new government have taken ensure a more focused and fair order. Clear requirements and criteria are introduced to ensure that companies with high profits and who are able to pay dividends will no longer qualify for the scheme. Treatment in Stortinget also limits management salaries and bonuses. The new growth rate and the new government show here both the ability and the will to pursue a fair crisis policy that the previous one lacked. It also strengthens the legitimacy of the arrangements, while at the same time ensuring jobs and avoiding bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e445	We're now approaching two years of corona handling, and I think most people hope we're approaching the end of it. Hopefully, we will be in the last round of intervention. Many have experienced the need to reduce or shut down activity during this period, and many have been permitted, not only once, but perhaps several times. In the phase of the pandemic that we are in now, there are many – businesses and employees alike – who may experience extra big challenges precisely because we are two years into the pandemic. We have a bulwark limit, a bulwark stop, and we have had a number limit – interventional measures. Therefore, it is now necessary to re-activate the scheme for large-scale enterprises in order to ensure that other viable enterprises can get through this phase. We are concerned that compensation schemes should be as simple and unbureaucratic as possible, while at the same time being based as far as possible on objective criteria. It's been our attitude throughout the pandemic. The main principles of the compensation scheme, as has been practised in the past in the pandemic, are continued in the government's proposal, and there seems to be broad support for the main principles. At the same time, there have been some adjustments, which have been explained to the extent, and which, for our part, we disagree with. In its original proposal, the government considered that the duration of the scheme could be determined by regulation. We believe that this was a good proposal since we do not currently have information on how long the scheme will be needed. Our starting point is that the system should last as long as it is necessary, but no longer than that. We will therefore vote against the second paragraph of Section 2, where an end date is passed on 28 February. I now believe, as in the previous treatment of the compensation scheme, that it is problematic to impose a dividend ban, which is essentially a symbol decision, and profit limits. The surplus limits agreed between the Government Parties and the SV will be practical and difficult to implement and may also give adverse results. A profit reduction also provides an inappropriate incentive for enterprises that have been through two demanding years, need to build up equity, but may risk being required to repay grants for a period of shut-down or significantly reduced activity. Such policies may make it more difficult for these enterprises to come back to a healthy economic situation after the pandemic. I would also like to mention that the situation is now somewhat different from at the beginning of the pandemic, as the companies that are experiencing a fall in turnover have almost two years of pandemics, permitations and a demanding economy behind them. We therefore believe that it is not right to impose profit limits, and therefore promote an alternative proposal to the first paragraph of Section 6(a). With that, I will address the suggestions that the Right is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e460	The representative, Helge Orten, then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e465	In the previous case, it was pointed out that there was no system ready for wage support, and that there was a background for it to take some time to get to Stortinget with it, but we have had a trading failure compensation scheme. Here it was only necessary to make some adjustments, and then it could come to treatment in the Storting quite quickly. Nevertheless, five weeks were taken from the initiation of the measures to prevent infection, until the Stortinge had handed over the dossiers. In fact, infection prevention measures were removed again before Stortinget now deals with the matter. It is critical, and it is especially for those who have been affected, who have had to live with uncertainty about how much they will be paid, when they will be paid out, what device it will be on the schemes, and whether they will at all qualify for the schemes. That government presented in December was a sketch of a scheme, and I want to remind the government that they are a minority government. This means that it is to be negotiated in the Stortinget, and until things have been presented in the Stortinget and negotiated, the Stortinget has looked at it, made its assessments and made its proposals, it is therefore not predictable for the business community, waiting for a compensation scheme. The Progress Party notes that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance were very high and dark in the opposition and felt that the packages were too late, it was too small, you were behind, came with clumsy crisis packages, and that the crisis packages were not ready at the same time as the measures on infection were adopted. It has not been under the pandemic much slower than what this government has provided for this package. Then you should at least think that when it comes, it's of good quality. But no, there is not even a real mention of how the pandemic has affected new businesses, and therefore the Progress Party proposes that a new regime be set up, which can take care of enterprises that fall outside existing schemes. Furthermore, we now see that restaurants that under the pandemic have given away large amounts of food for charity will be charged both VAT and tax. The eagerness and creativity of constantly filling the treasury doesn't seem to have any constraints. We see that ideological skyscrapers choose to introduce a bureaucratic system of repayment claims if you manage to turn the shot and secure a small profit. The government and the SV agreement do not take into account the fact that companies can organise the operation in order to make profits, for example: by adjusting salaries or dividends. I see that SV and the government now agree that the pandemic will end on 28 February. They have gone from data to date, and now it is the date 28 February that applies – at least for the compensation schemes. However, if infectious diseases measures continue to exist on 28 February, the compensation schemes should also do so. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e480	Then the representative Roy Steffensen addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e485	During Christmas, the E24 website published a review of the payments made through compensation schemes since 2020. There we could read that more than two billion of the money that has gone to business could have been refunded without the companies losing out. The companies that have received support have sent over 700 million kroner. SEK dividends to non-resident owners. We know that compensation schemes have helped to increase differences in Norway. There has been a transfer of Community funds to someone at the top, including to non-resident owners. My question in this debate is: Who is it really the right side cares for? Is it the big seismic companies, who have received money through the compensation scheme, despite the fact that it goes so far laughing in the oil? Or is it the pub on the corner, which was not actually taken by the support schemes of the bourgeois government? Much of the Norwegian economy is doing very well, but through this pandemic, it has become a habit that business organisations are now lobbing for ever more state transfers, for reduced turnover, which is common in periods when operating, and for increased power prices — yes, you can ask yourself what's next. Support for increased interest rates? But some parts of the economy are in fact hard hit – the outdoor and catering industry, the tourism industry, to mention examples. It's industries like it's important that we hit, and not primarily those that have large foreign owners with significant capital in their backs, but the smaller Norwegians. Therefore, the scheme is becoming more targeted, with lower ceilings and social requirements. It shall be for small and medium-sized enterprises. The business compensation scheme is not optimal in any way. Had you had better time, or if the bourgeois government had spent their time better, we should have had a much more accurate system aimed at just the outdoor and catering industry and the travel industry. Unfortunately, we have not received that, and then we have to assume the arrangement we have on the table. Finally, I just want to join part of the criticism of the other opposition. We from SV would also like this case to have come to Stortinget earlier. I think it would have been an advantage. It has been notified for a long time by the government, but there has not been a majority behind this scheme as it was outlined, as you see today. And given a desire to make predictability for business, I think it's an advantage to get things here faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e500	The first time the compensation scheme was for voting in Stortinget, Red voted against it. It was because we thought that it was far too generous, with too few demands to ensure that the community's resources did not go to private enrichment – that what has happened so many times before, both in Norway and other countries, happened: that when the economy goes down, the community is going to take the losses, and when the economy goes up, it's the private ones who are going to take the gains. That is why we voted against. I believe that afterwards we have shown that we were doing the right thing to be a little skeptical. To talk about something I know very well: the Louis Vuitton store over in the street here got 900,000 kroner in the corona support, and then it went much better than you thought – they are doing well online sales or something – so they had the opportunity to send 40 million. kr in dividends to their French owners in the same year as they received support from the Norwegian State. Who's the owner of Louis Vuitton? Well, that's the third richest man in the world, Bernard Arnault. This week we could read a report from Oxfam International that shows that the ten richest men in the world have become twice as rich through the Corona era, and the Godliest Bernard is number three on that list. This is because part of the crisis policy that has been used in both Norway and other countries has just ended sending the community funds to the richest. I think this is a very big problem if the country is going through more crises, because it makes people – rightly – very, very angry when you see that the workers take a lot of money, while the rich can end up getting our tax money sent them in terms of dividends. Through the rounds of extension of the compensation system that have been in place, Red has made many proposals for restrictions and has brought with it several of the red-green parties, and we are very happy to see that the system to be adopted now has some of the improvements that the opposition made in the previous period. Then there are three things that we still miss, and that we therefore propose ourselves in this setting. One is that you make a restriction on tax havens. The second is that you do something about the very big problem that at least a lot of small shopkeepers know, that the support they get disappears right into the rent of Olav Thon. You can encourage as much as you want the property barons to put down the rent, but we've seen in practice that many of them haven't. And thirdly, we're proposing changes in the boundaries that make it more of the smallest companies that get the support. But that is what we are now voting for. We are very pleased that it has an end date, because we believe that this is such an important arrangement that if it is to be extended, the Stortinget will decide both that it will be extended, and what new requirements will be imposed. I address the proposals Red has alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e517	The representative Marie Sneve Martinussen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e523	After rounding rounds of compensation schemes in recent years, it's the world's easiest thing to find examples of businesses and owners who each and every one of us might think morally should not be supported. It's the world's easiest thing to find businesses that most of us think should be supported, but that didn't. Creating a perfect system of compensation schemes for the enormous shortage of businesses and industries, to varying degrees the framework of action, is not acceptable. In the previous government, we at least put a lot of emphasis on just that insight and that it was more important that we get the arrangements in place, that we get the money out, and that we make sure that the companies survived, than to spend monthly on finding a perfect system. My impression is that in this round, the red-green parties have been more concerned with finding out who absolutely should not be supported than anyone who should be given. One has spent a long time working with detailed limits on exchange, surplus, pay, etc., which is still quite unclear what it really means. It creates uncertainty for businesses. It is still quite unclear how a company should and can now behave when a company is operating. This uncertainty is inherently negative and reinforces the uncertainty of the current actions. The case spokesperson, the representative Pollestad, began by saying that it would be possible to trick the system, but that it should not be Stortinget's job to tell anyone. It's a pretty eye-catching statement. I'm a little unsure whether he thinks it should be the Storting and the opposition's job to go out on the streets and join the jubilant crowds of red-green politicians and say yes, the emperor is fully dressed, there's no doubt about it, of course he's not naked. The problem here, and the reason why the Left and others criticise what is now being done, is that introducing the kind of symbolic constraints that are easy for quite resource-intensive and large companies to bypass, but which makes it difficult for smaller companies to benefit from the scheme, is problematic in itself. That is why we criticise it when it comes to exchange delimitation. The government party thinks that it shouldn't be the opposition, the opposition should just pretend that this isn't a problem, and that it's not possible to bypass the arrangements, but I actually think it's home in the big room to be honest about it. It's good that you have compensation arrangements. It's good that you're finished negotiating, and that things come into place, but it's a shame that there's still a lot of uncertainty about what's really going to happen, and it'll unfortunately have a potential to reinforce the crisis we're in. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Left is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e538	The representative of Sveinung Rotevatn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e543	It is reassuring and wise that the Storting now reintroduces the compensation scheme. The lockdown has once again hit people and businesses very hard. The Green Party does not support the introduction of a general requirement that a profit from the year as a whole should lead to a claim for repayment. We agree with Works, SMB Norway and others who, in the consultation round, pointed it out unfairly in such a claim. Enterprises that have been active and that have cut costs and relocated their operations to keep employees in employment, of course, often in cooperation with employees at work, are now at risk of being penalised. We believe it is completely wrong incentives to give to a poor business life under a pandemic. That is why we support the Right's proposal for an alternative legal text that does not introduce such a claim for reimbursement. However, the Government and the SV will today secure a majority for such a new demand for repayment. We therefore support the proposal that the requirement should, as far as possible, weaken the incentives for conversion. We support the Left's proposal not to require a refund before dividends and the Progress Party's proposal to set up a grant scheme for enterprises not covered by the compensation scheme. And we support Rødt's proposal that landlords of commercial property should grant reduced rent to companies that receive support. In recent years, the size has repeatedly underlined the importance of economic transparency and reinforced efforts against tax planning and financial secrecy. Since the first compensation scheme in 2020, the Green Party has considered that the State must impose specific transparency requirements on groups that have parent companies registered in tax havens. We are therefore also promoting a loose proposal to this effect, in which we are asking the government to ensure that companies with parent companies registered in a low tax country can receive support only if reference can be made to country-by-country reporting and transparency on group structure. Low tax countries are defined in the Tax Act and refer to countries with lower corporate tax rates than two thirds of Norwegian tax rates. We believe that this is a better wording than the Red in position proposal, which is also about tax havens. I hope, of course, that the House will support our proposal. Some industries have been hit extra hard by the last shut-down. Regardless of red or black numbers on the bottom line for 2021, the catering industry missed huge revenue in the fall, especially when the Christmas season was lost. Gift stop for an industry up against 60-70 pst. the sale of alcohol is, in substance, a ban on food. The serving industry is one of the glues in our society, with many small companies that create meeting places and give us shared experiences. That is why we are also promoting proposals today to exempt the catering industry from the new demand for reimbursement. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e558	The representative of Une Bastholm has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e563	I am pleased that there is now a majority on the Storting that will introduce the compensation scheme 2.0, i.e. the compensation scheme with certain changes. A majority have also agreed behind what we consider to be a good overall package of compensation and support schemes. The compensation mechanism is, as we know, an automatic system designed to be simple, with few discretionary criteria and automated procedure. The scheme has been effectively implemented since then and the compensation has gone to enterprises with a fall in turnover as a result of the pandemic. It's been important to keep the wheels going. These are the Community funds. It's the taxpayers' money we use to support our business. Therefore, the government proposes amendments to ensure that the scheme is better suited to that objective. It has government parties in opposition, and it means government parties when we're in government. Not least, it has been important to use the new knowledge and insight from the previous round in this work, and that's why I call this the compensation scheme 2.0. The changes we are proposing relate to the grant period as of November 2021 and will therefore not have retroactive effect, even if I record that some have tried to create uncertainty about it. We suggest that companies with a profit year after year repay the grant. The compensation scheme shall save companies from bankruptcy and secure jobs, not build profits or be used to subsidise profits to owners. I myself have spoken to many companies that have managed to build up profits through what has been a very difficult period. They have worked hard, and I know and recognize what efforts have been made, including by employees and working owners. This is an overall assessment we're still doing. Several hearing bodies have commented on this and pointed out that there may be many reasons why an enterprise is running for profit, for example: enterprises that adapted to the pandemic in 2020, where the year as a whole had a large deficit, while the results of the conversion only came in 2021. We've listened to that, and that's why we're also saying that we want to look at the minimum amount of profits before subsidies have to be repaid. We've also said that we want to design the rule so that you can estimate profits from several years under the pandemic as a whole. Those who have been in deficit overall, or have only had a small profit in the coronary appartement so far, may not have to pay back subsidies. I would like to thank the Hearing Officers, who have worked fast, and the Brønn Island Health Registers, who have worked hard. We can allow for the processing of applications shortly after the law has been sanctioned. That means that the companies that now have the papers in order and quickly send in will be able to have money in the account before the month is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e585	The representative Kaski wondered who we cared for in this pandemic. In this case, when we talk about compensation schemes, it's obvious that we care for the businesses and the workplaces of the companies and the employees of the companies, and that they're going to get through the pandemic in a good way and have a viable, good and long-term profitable job behind the pandemic. We have a majority that now imposes more restrictions on this scheme, a dividend limit, so far, and a profit limit. My question in this round is – was the Council of State a little bit involved and said a little about profit reduction and how it can be practised: can he elaborate on it more and possibly give some feedback on when those rules will be clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e592	As I said, there are two things we want to assess in the regulatory work that are now in progress. One is to see surplus through the pandemic together. We've also announced in the proposition that we're willing to look at the minimum amount of profit. Then I would like to stress that this arrangement must be seen in conjunction with all the other financial arrangements that are under consideration. 20 B.C.E. kr, if I remember correctly, will go to secure jobs, keep the wheels running and create predictability for our employment and business. We have a municipal compensation scheme, we have the payroll scheme, we have other schemes where we do not make similar demands. But based on the experience we have gained in the past, we still believe that it stands out very well, in order to ensure the legitimacy of this scheme, that there is something tighter bounded, that companies that have profits and that have capital and liquidity to pay dividends will not need this scheme in the same way. All of this will of course be clear when the portal opens, and the money could be in the account before the month is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e603	Now we have almost two years behind us with pandemics and pandemic management. Some of the companies that are now going to apply for support may have done it two, three, four times earlier, they've been through several placement rounds with their employees. We agree to many of the main principles, but in terms of profit reduction: does the Council of State see the challenge that we are now at the end of the pandemic, and that the companies that are now hit by the pandemic are not necessarily the same companies that were hit early in the pandemic, that there may be mainly enterprises in the field of food, culture, winter sports destinations and others that are now experiencing the need to apply for support? These are companies that for two years also have a very hard time on their economy. Does the Council of State consider it unreasonable that at the beginning of the year, with restrictive measures, a person should receive compensation and support from the State, but must later repay it and have a depressed economy, which may make it even more difficult to get back into a healthy situation after the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e610	The government is for business to have profits. That is the basis of our welfare state. We are constantly working on improving the framework conditions for Norwegian business so that more companies can profit. That's what we're saying, that's positive, that's good. What we are discussing here is whether tax-funded business support measures should also go to enterprises that not only maintain a profit but which may even increase their profits through the pandemic. The government believes that it is not right for this scheme. Then it is referred to the food industry, outdoors, travel life. I am myself almost daily in dialogue with actors, with the parties, traveling around the country and meeting the companies and understanding that some companies would like to see them receive grants and still have profits. That's why we also have other arrangements. We have the municipal compensation scheme, we have guarantee schemes, we have the payroll scheme, where we do not make the same demands. I think we need to see the whole of these arrangements in context before we evaluate how successful they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e619	Can the Council of State explain the difference between tax-financed measures for the cultural sector and profit-driven measures, but that is not right in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e625	In the case of cultural schemes, there is also the possibility of seeing profits over several years as a whole. Once again, as I said before, it's the whole of these arrangements that matter. There are different enterprises that are made by different schemes. We know that in the case of the previous round of the national compensation scheme, it has been written in the media that more than half of the companies that received the aid could have paid back the aid and still had profits. Of course, there was also some of the experience and knowledge we brought in when we were going to make this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e630	I wholeheartedly support the fact that the compensation system is primarily aimed at saving businesses and securing the job for people. So we know that it's the tax rate that is responsible for controlling that use, and we just have to admit that with so many billions distributed, and with the limited resources of the tax rate, it's also limited how good control we can have with the funds that are being distributed. That is why the Greens very early called for full transparency about which companies are being supported and how much support they have. Today, in addition, we are calling for and proposing to ensure that those companies that have parent companies registered in tax havens – i.e. low tax countries, as defined in Norway – have to show transparency about their group structure and for country-by-country reporting. My question is whether these are signals that the Council of State wants to take further and could introduce as demands, and if not: how else can one ensure transparency to prevent financial secrecy and tax planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e637	Thank you for a good question. The representative is concerned with important issues. We are also against tax havens and would like to work actively to counteract it. Then there's always an assessment of how much you're going to put into a compensation scheme that has a varying duration. Several representatives have also speeded up their work. We have been busy at the pace: we said in the middle of December that this system would be put in place. We chose to run a consultation round on the arrangements we proposed, just to ensure the best possible anchoring, and we have listened to that and made some adjustments. If we had started an even greater effort, which would have imposed even more restrictions and leads, it could also have affected when the scheme could be ready, and it could also have led to other unintended consequences. We're too transparent, and we're looking at a register that shows how support has been paid. But to go further in that direction now we have not found appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e646	It is exciting to hear that you are working on some kind of register, and I cannot possibly hold the Council of State responsible for what the previous government has done and has not done. I just remind you that when the first compensation scheme was rolled out in 2020, the reason was that no more transparency about the use of funds was ensured, for example. through an open register — despite the fact that Ecocrim expressed their support for such a register and transparency — that one would roll out quickly. Now we've had the pandemic for two years, and the question is how long we're going to go on that way when we know that there are some companies, most of which operate openly and use the funds as intended, but it's of course also companies and business owners who use the opportunity to enrich themselves. So how will the Council of State make sure that in the next few months we will see less of it, and more of transparency, which also allows the Council of State to show the entire Norwegian business that this is a bet for the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e651	As I said, I'm very happy to take that recording with me. The majority of the population will now decide that these schemes will be phased out in February. I have been very clear that the government is going to set up for business even if new measures for the protection of infection were to be taken. It also means that we will follow the situation and have close dialogue with the parties. Now we all hope that we go towards brighter times, literally, even in the case of the pandemic. Of course, if the situation should change and new arrangements will be needed, we will then consider how best to organise them. That means taking the experience from the previous round and this round, the recordings the representative picks up, and other reflections and thoughts we make ourselves. Then we will consider getting back to Stortinget in an appropriate way if there is a need for it. Finally, I would like to say that we would like to discuss time, but bear in mind that the national compensation scheme will compensate for sales losses in December. It is still known to me in January, and I say that the money comes into the account in January. So much faster than that, I actually don't think it's possible to treat this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e658	Before Christmas, the Minister of Industry announced strong measures to help businesses through a new closure period. Now we see that the negotiations with SV have actually contributed to weakening the compensation system 2.0. I assume that the Minister of Industry will receive the same reports from Norwegian companies as the undersigned gets. Dramatically high electricity costs are reported. We know that. Transport costs have doubled, deliveries have failed due to the pandemic, sick leave is high due to high infection and, in particular, the consumer price index, is 5.3 pst. last year, contribute to a significant increase in rental costs both for commercial premises and for rentals. Then my question to the Minister of Industry is: is he concerned about the situation of small and medium-sized Norwegian enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e667	We follow the situation closely. We are in good dialogue with the social partners. I myself have visited over 120 companies across the country after joining as Minister of Economic Affairs, and I listen to their needs. We have been concerned that our compensation schemes for covid should meet the best possible conditions. That is why I still think there is reason to say that overall, there is a powerful package we are preparing. We already see positive trends in economic recovery. Many of the companies that were most affected by the previous measures on infectious diseases are now experiencing considerable progress and growth in the economy again. It's positive. Of course, there are also examples of companies that don't experience it. That's why we have to keep following the situation. Then we have to be aware that running a business, running a private business, always has risks associated with it. There are changes in the framework conditions and conditions of competition in free, open markets, and of course there is always a question of the extent to which the State will take responsibility for this and the extent to which this is part of the business life process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e676	To the last time the Minister of Industry said, I fully agree with that. And we know that doing business is a high risk at times. What's special now is that there's a lot of negative relationships that hit at the same time. The Progress Party doesn't think that the state can solve everything, very close, but we have a situation where we have posthumous things from the pandemic and past closures, we have uncertainty about what's going on in the future, and then we have a number of inputs that are moving in a very, very negative direction. This gives cause for concern about the situation of the smallest enterprises, but also of the medium-sized enterprises, because they see that they do not have enough buffers to cope with and manage these cost increases. That's what's really the starting point for my question to the Minister of Industry; you feel a concern about where this ends if it just continues and we can't reverse the developments we're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e685	As I said, we're following the situation closely, and we're concerned that business is going to go well. We are busy with the small enterprises, the medium-sized enterprises and the large enterprises. Then it's the compensation schemes we're discussing now, and in sum they're strong. Holdings with a fall in turnover of 30 pst. or more, may cover a large proportion of the fixed, unavoidable costs. We've strengthened the municipal compensation system by over 1 billion. kr. We have introduced the loan guarantee scheme, which allows companies with liquidity problems to go to their banks, obtain overdraft or other support for financing measures, and the State guarantees 90 pst. We've opened up to suspend the payment of taxes and taxes, and we also have a number of other measures, so we're preparing for business. We're in close dialogue with the parties, we're talking to the companies, and we're obviously following the situation closely. We are also pleased to note that we are doing well in large parts of the Norwegian economy. A lot of companies have a lot to do. There are labour shortages in many regions and industries. This does not apply to everyone, and then we will also assess the situation for them within the possibilities we have, but running business is associated with risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e695	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3–6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e753	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e760	In the matters we are dealing with now, financial measures are being extended and reintroduced to help remedy the negative economic consequences of the pandemic and of the disease prevention measures. The necessary legislative proposals and proposals for appropriations relating to the measures are promoted. I would like to start by thanking the Committee for Good Cooperation, the Committee Secretariat for Unusual Flexibility and also the government parties for constructive cooperation on matters where the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have come to an agreement. One of the settings deals with proposals for changes in compensation benefits for self-employed and freelancers, leave, daily allowance, sickness benefit, care allowance and redundancy pay. These are systems that ensure the safety and predictability of people's lives when pandemics and infectious diseases measures characterise work and restrict life and the economy. It has therefore been important to extend and improve measures because the pandemic has become a disparity crisis. Therefore, the crisis response must also last for the duration of the crisis. Although many have been vaccinated, more people may be working through wage support and we see a hope of normality, many are still hard hit, both in Norway and in the world. Globally, we see that the ten richest in the world have doubled their wealth, while 99 pst. of the world's population has lost enormously. The inequalities have increased somewhat during the pandemic. How society faces the crisis is crucial to how we get out on the other side, who loses, and who wins, the opportunities to build good societies through strong communities. That is why it has been essential for SV to promote a fair crisis policy, a policy that says that those on the front should not bear the heaviest burdens. This can only be addressed by the community, and we are contributing to it today both through the extension of the crisis response in March – which provides predictability and economic security – and through the improvements that are taking place, such as: that those who experience that the previous daily allowance basis is the basis for the re-permitting calculation will receive aid of NOK 1500 per month. It's to curb a real poverty trap since many of those who are outlawed have worked in industries that initially have low wages. It is also gratifying that the majority should be gathered on an important strengthening of social arrangements for both workers and self-employed people. Freelancers, taxi drivers, artists and other self-employed people get more compensation from the income they have lost as a result of the new wave of infection. 70 pst. previous income is to be compensated, and we see that it has been well received by those who needed that message. There are broad arrangements that make a lot of people, but we have also agreed that those who have been thrown out of redundancy money, male years, can once again apply to the scheme. It could provide financial security to a group of people who live in great economic uncertainty and who have been severely affected by the pandemic. It's a hurt in society that politics has to patch. We've seen musicians who have sold their instruments. There are tones that are not played again. We have met taxi drivers who do not see their kids because the days in the car will be so long in hopes of earnings. It's a time they never get back. Shopworkers, drivers, health professionals have exposed themselves and their health to enormous pressure through the pandemic, and those who have met our young, young, standing on the steps of learning time and a life in which they will hopefully soon come out, and to the full, need us to have a wise and community-oriented crisis policy that has the breadth and justice, and that ensures that it is the well-being that is the basis of security, against a safer tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e775	When this new Storting meeting earlier in the fall, I made a post where I said, "The pandemic we are now on our way out of [[...]] The government, both this and the previous, has talked about the length of the crisis and how long the measures will last. We have been clear that the financial measures for workers should last as long as the intervention measures. Before Christmas, therefore, it was announced that the government wanted to extend these compensation schemes out of February, originally. When we now deal with this matter in Stortinget five weeks later, we know that the situation will still be difficult for a while to come. Therefore, we believe it was right to extend these arrangements for another month. It gives predictability, and it gives security. At the same time, we see a lot of positive signs around us now, fortunately. Even though the infection increases quite sharply, the deposits go down. I'm not going to say again that now we're going out of the pandemic, because it can come and bite me in the butt one more time, but I hope that what we see now is positive trends that will continue. In addition to extending the arrangements out of March, we are improving several of the arrangements, because, as my colleague Kirsti Bergstø has been in, it is those who have been hit the hardest, who were hit again on 13 December. I want to bring forward three important improvements we are now making with the arrangements. One is that those who have a daily allowance as part of their calculation basis for new daily allowances will receive an addition of NOK 1500 per month. The second is about self-employed and freelancers, who get an increase in compensation from 60 to 70 pst. Many of those who are self-employed and freelancers are connected to cultural life, an industry that was hard hit by the new shut-downs before Christmas, with planned Christmas concerts that did not go off, and events that were put on hold. The last improvement I want to make concerns redundancy payments. Although the underlying trend in the labour market is now evidence of improvement and employers are looking for labour, we know that those who stood far away from the labour market before the pandemic may be even further away from the labour market now. Many who are on redundancy pay have been exposed to being thrown into the man in a labour market that has been difficult. In this consensus we are discussing here today, those who are at a standstill are allowed to apply for redundancy benefits again, without having to go through the full 52 weeks. I want to add a very good news that work and the Minister of Inclusion have presented today – which we are not dealing with today, but which is announced today – and it is that this government is proposing to permanently remove the Karen Year. This also contributes to future security and predictability. Now we're going to try to go from an exceptional situation, from an ad hoc situation, to working with long-term improvements for our society. Now we're going to get ready to help those who're going back to work. Now we have to move from crisis mechanisms to permanent arrangements. We're going to move on to getting people into work, we're going to move on to qualifying people at work, and we're going to move on to closing the gap of competence that has arisen in our society. The problem now is that there are many people in need of labour, but the labour available does not match the needs that are out there. That's the really big problem we're facing in the future. Finally, of course, I would like to thank the SV and the Central Party for their very good cooperation in reaching the consensus we are going to adopt today. I also want to thank the other parties in the Committee on Patience and Flexibility, because this is not always necessarily the case, and that is fine with colleagues who are flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e794	The anti-infectious measures that came in December are something we have gradually become accustomed to. As infection increases, it is also necessary to take the necessary steps to ensure that life and health are put first. Equally full, this also means that a large number of industries and workers have experienced new restrictions and closures that have gone beyond them. Now, when we see that a lot of people get infected with a less dangerous virus variant, omicron, that means that a lot of close contacts end up in quarantine. The absence of many jobs can be very large, and it is not that all jobs and businesses can only connect their employees to home offices. Some people have to be physically present to do their job. Throughout this pandemic, adjustments have been made to compensation schemes, both for people and businesses. What is a challenge here is that uncertainty is unnecessary. The government proposes to roll back some business compensation schemes in February. For workers today, we will decide to extend the arrangements out of March, whereas it is not until April that the government has announced a new strategy for dealing with the pandemic in the long term. This, of course, makes work more difficult for us on the Stortinget, which is supposed to address these issues, but above all it creates an unnecessary uncertainty for people all over the country. As the Right also states in comments in this case, there are good reasons to extend a number of arrangements out of March. At the same time, however, we will warn against the risk of more people being locked up in schemes at the same time as the working life, as the representative Moflag pointed out quite correctly, is asking for labour, and we know that there are at the same time record numbers of job vacancies. We need to gradually return to normal levels, and the specific measures need to be phased out as soon as the infective situation and the levels of infection control measures allow. So there's a record of many vacancies, and the total number of vacancies is very low. We also have to make sure that our businesses have access to people. On the right, it agrees that the coronary apathy may make it difficult for some activities to help qualify more people for work, for example: those participating in the qualification programme or having an activity obligation related to their social assistance. Therefore, there may be good grounds for postponing the activities that cannot be carried out by measures to prevent infection. Equally full, there must also be a clear expectation from Stortinget that the threshold for cancelling this type of activity should be very high. We would also like to remind you that there is a great deal to be done within the current measures for the protection of infectious diseases. So to some concrete disagreements between the right and the large majority: both the Right and the Advance Party propose to reduce the employer’s days on sick pay to three days rather than five days, as the majority advocated. We believe that this is important because the absence, as said earlier, will be abnormally high in the time to come. This, together with the other expenditures that many enterprises now experience, is particularly affecting those industries that cannot have people in their home offices, including those sectors that are normally exposed to the most stringent disease prevention measures. Then the majority also proposes to remove the rule of three days' waiting time to receive the daily allowance for those who become unemployed or leave in March. This makes very little sense, both to those who were licensed in December, January and February, and to those who will be there in April. It is quite obvious that there are technical solutions that will allow you to do this only in March. Evenly, it makes so little sense that the Right is going to go against this proposal. In addition, it is worth asking yourself whether it is the right time-use for Nav to now set up a new scheme for an isolated group that is licensed in March, rather than spending time and the forces to help all those who are unemployed. Then the majority proposes to introduce a flat-rate payment of $1,500 a month to those receiving a daily allowance who also have a daily allowance as the basis for calculating their current daily allowance, i.e. those who have been on leave in the last year. This is also of the opinion of the Right that there is a strange device, in particular because the same majority votes against the Right, the Advance Party and the Left's proposal to pay 1000 kroner to everyone who was licensed, unemployed or on the AAP from December, as compensation for electricity prices. So all in all, the Right agrees with many of the extensions that are made, and that they are done in the short term, even though we have to gradually get back to normal levels. At the same time, we believe that the majority is doing some small and strange steps that have greater problems than they have advantages. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that are part of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e823	The representative Henrik Asheim then drew up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e828	What we are about to consider is proposals for compensatory measures against the large additional costs that the pandemic means for Norwegian working life. I would like to thank you for thorough and lengthy but demanding negotiations with SV. The result must have been good, because it is support from almost a unanimous collapse to what we came to together. There are very important income insurance measures that we are now bringing, which relate to employees, sea-going traders, freelancers and businesses. There are more than ten different schemes. The government had proposed improvements in 2022 in an economic order of over 2.2 billion. kr. Now it's added further on. There are improvements with a cost framework of over 850 million. kr. So we're talking about total improvements for the groups that need it, in the order of 3.1 billion. kr. All arrangements are extended at least until March, i.e. one month. I would say that all the changes we have made in the negotiations with SV are targeted changes, in response to what the representative from the Right said. This is also the case with the so-called ‘stablong scheme’. Not many people, but for those who are involved, this is designed to have the greatest possible precision to those who were licensed after 13 December, who have previously been licensed under the pandemic and thus now have a lower daily allowance basis than one would have had if one had not had a previous period of leave. We have also received improvements for marine operators and freelancers. There is a compensation scheme that covers up to 70 pst. of previous income up to six G, which shall also last until March. We remove the rule of three days' waiting time for employees who receive daily allowances for March, and we reduce the number of days of employer funding, from sixteen to five days, for absences due to the covid-19 pandemic. In the case of sea-going operators, it is equivalent. In the same period, sickness benefits from social security are granted from the sixth day in the case of sick leave. But, as everyone knows, the income hedge for maritime traders is much lower than the 100 pst. the coverage applicable to employees. This is an important improvement in terms of redundancy payments. Applicants for redundancy benefits before 1 July of this year shall not be hindered by the rules on canine wounds. And as the representative Tuva Moflag said, the government is proposing to remove the general withdrawal period. At the same time, and I would like to stress this, redundancy pay is a temporary scheme. There is no permanent arrangement, so here you must also have applications that are then accepted. In the context of the work clearance system, I would like to say this: there is a very high focus on the protection of income in the work clearance system. There is too little focus on job redundancy and not least on getting a job qualification. Those who are not eligible for disability benefit and who are going to leave the labour market must be given a much better job qualification, so that the AAP scheme does not become, under various governments, too much of a waiting room. These people don't deserve it. Here the government has a great job to do. Finally, I just want to say that the main line of the party Red is in general to pay attention to the government's proposal and agreement with SV almost in any case. I don't think it's very reliable. I want to say that. I'm going to say it before, but now I'm going to say it. I don't think it's very reliable. I think you should have a more detailed explanation of how the arrangements work and how the arrangements can be practised. We from the government side are very concerned about it and have precise solutions based on those premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e849	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matters under consideration today. The job has been high to land things as quickly as possible, and a little deviation from normal has been necessary to get the opinions of the individual parties. There are important issues, which relate to the employee’s benefit for a difficult period, and to the employer’s minimum burden in a highly infected pandemic. The Committee agrees on measures that ensure good arrangements for the worker, but does not agree on how good the arrangements should be in order to alleviate the burden on the employer of the pandemic. Government parties and SV do not do enough to reduce the large costs of many establishments associated with high sick leave these days. Lack of action creates unsafe jobs. It is good that the government extends the measures to a month extra for the employee, but we lack an extensive hand for the companies that are now in very difficult situations due to high levels of sick leave. We risk losing jobs because the financial burden becomes too great. We're totally dependent on a business that works, to have safe jobs. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that the employer’s period of corona-related sick leave must be reduced to three days. It is absolutely necessary to relieve establishments with a high level of sick leave. Infections in summer and autumn have been much lower, and before October we had an employer's period of three days. That's why it doesn't make any sense when the government and the Swedish government just choose to let the people's interest take over sick money from day six, and we wonder what you think is different, compared to last year. On the contrary, the situation is more demanding for many businesses. These extra days for which the employer has to pay are large sums for some enterprises. The government writes in Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 S for 2021-2022 that an extension of special schemes with an extended entitlement to sickness benefits and care days is important to cover ‘the financial loss that individuals would otherwise have by following the recommendations of health authorities’. This supports the Progress Party. Furthermore, in the same proposition, the government writes that such absences take place mainly during the 16-day period of the employer, and that, as a result, there will be no additional expenditure. It cannot be understood in any other way than that the government considers it entirely reasonable for the employer to bear a substantial proportion of the costs of the worker following the advice and recommendations of the authorities. Sending these signals to the employer cannot be accepted, and we therefore believe that cf. the infectiveness situation should be reduced to three days by the employer. The current snapshot is that new vector cords are set. The government introduced pre-Christmas intervention measures that particularly affected society and business, which resulted in many tens of thousands being permitted. Some of these measures have been facilitated, but many are still permissive around the country. The Government and the majority of the Grand Duchy, with the exception of the Advance Party, have decided to tighten the legislation on leave of 1 March. This means that the pay obligation for employers should increase from 10 to 15 days. We believe that this is a completely wrong signal to send out to companies that have already stood in it and taken a great deal of noise. The party considers that the only right thing to do is to comply with the wishes of the business community to reduce the employer’s period to five days. It might look like the majority in this room thinks that Norwegian business is Sarepta's jar, and it's exhaustive. The increasing costs experienced by business are incurred at the same time as the government sends a tax bill of 10 billion. kr to Norwegian business. This makes it visible that we've got a government with a support party that doesn't understand, or at worst doesn't care about, the challenges of business. In total, the government and the Swedish government create unsafe jobs with this. It is important that we present ourselves to Norwegian employers, so that we do not risk losing jobs because the financial burden becomes too high. As I said, we are totally dependent on the functioning of business. With this, I believe that the proposal of the Progress Party in case No. 4 as presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e870	Then the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e875	When Prime Minister Gahr Støre came to Stortinget on 30 November last year, his main message was that the pandemic was not over – and unfortunately he was right about that. At that time, that is, at the end of November last year, all the crisis measures for workers were in the process of being phased out. Therefore, at that time, Red encouraged an urgent proposal to extend the higher daily allowance rate and all the other emergency arrangements for workers for an indefinite period. We did that because we think predictability and security have a lot to say to people. It has to be said that in three weeks' time, in four weeks' time, you will lose several thousand dollars a month in income, which happens if the increased daily allowance is not extended, or – all of you – if you can get out of the daily allowance scheme, which happens if the daily allowance period is not extended. As a result, Red has been involved in several rounds in the fact that the crisis systems for workers cannot be extended in small portions at a time, because predictability and security are very important for people. That's what we're talking about right now. And to the representative of the Central Party, I can say it's a little strange that it's not very reliable that a party for the workers is trying to secure a good, predictable framework for the workers. We don't think people choose to be unemployed, that if they see that the arrangements are very good, they want to be unemployed. We believe that people want to work, and if they're unemployed, they need to be guaranteed income and predictability, and they'd like to be far ahead of time. There is a very important political disagreement between the government and Red, and it's about the increased daily allowance level, i.e. you get 80 pst. of the revenue up to NOK 300000. Red thought it was such a good improvement for the workers that we want it to be a permanent arrangement. We look for every opportunity to strengthen the interests of workers. When there's a crisis that gives us the opportunity to bring ourselves to the right-hand side to do it temporarily, yes, Red fights for a lasting improvement. This is the way in which the political struggle of the employer, of the owners of the capital, is going on, and it should also be done for us who support the interests of the workers. That is why we are proposing a longer extension in order to ensure predictability, and, as far as the increased daily allowance level is concerned, we are, in fact, also proposing in our alternative budget that there should be a permanent improvement in the safety net for workers because it particularly hits those with low income, well. It's kind of a low-wage supplement, which is really a fairness idea that I would think several other parties also support about. Then in this system, which was put forward now – and Red is going to vote in favour, it is said, both the majority's recommendation and minority proposals from the right – there are many good improvements, but there is also a group that still has no claim for anything when they lose their job. It's the students. We've seen look-ups in e.g. NRK about the student Karina, who had to move home to her parents because she couldn't afford food. Not all students have parents who can take them in and cover the bill, or send them a couple thousand extra a month to cover the electricity bill. It is quite illogical that workers who incidentally also study should be treated as second-class workers. They're side by side with other people at the bar, at the coffee shop and at the shops, and they should have the same rights. Therefore, Red proposes a temporary scheme that allows students to also be entitled to a daily allowance. If we are to maintain the spirit of hard work through the crisis, we cannot cut off arrangements for those who are hit hardest, or extend them in the last few years. The size introduced a better security of income for the Korona unemployed to help them when the crisis hit us. Many still need that help. All those who stay, who are on leave or have lost their jobs and do not get back to work, still have a difficult financial situation. And in the debate that was just before, as the finance committee had, we talked a lot about business compensation schemes. And we've seen a lot of bad examples that both big corporations and owners who are among the world's richest are enriching themselves with the Korona policy that the right-wing government has led up to now. That is why we in Red are pleased that there will be better restrictions for business, but we should like to see better predictability for workers in the crisis systems, and also see that in times of crisis there is room for lasting improvements. I finally take up the suggestions Red is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e897	Then the representative Marie Snee Martinussen has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e902	The issues that the Stortinget is dealing with today, both from the Financial Committee, from the Labour and Social Committee and later on from the Energy and Environment Committee, are, of course, about money, about crowns and ears, to help people who are struggling to get their everyday lives to hang out, and for businesses and businessmen who are struggling to keep their heads above the water. But at the same time, they're also about what signal we're sending out, about who we don't see, who we're stretching far to help, and who we're not stretching far enough to help, in the middle of a pandemic, or to the extent of a power crisis, which we have matters about later today. The cases are part of a larger health care, and I think that's exactly what, among other things. to have led to the uprising we have seen, and still see, in the food and outdoors industry and in the cultural life of Norway. They've got a feeling during the pandemic, perhaps especially lately, that we're running a big-time bottle-tin-on-game, and that the bottle label points to the new measures to be put in. I don't think that at least cultural life has felt lately. In the left's view, the fact that we have good arrangements to help people and businesses as well as actors in these industries is enormously important. I want to say two words specifically about cultural life. Cultural life is a rather diverse ecosystem. It is easy to imagine that it consists of the large institutions, often heavily funded from the state budget, and that there are many volunteers who are doing well. But within cultural life one also has a lot of people who drive and have to make money, like other businesses, and one has not least a lot of freelancers, self-employed, people who run for themselves, take jobs and are extra vulnerable when a crisis and the entire income base they disappear and are powdered overnight. Therefore, we need to have broad, good arrangements that both ensure that the most possible activity can be continued and that give real economic compensation both to the big and to the many small ones in cultural life, just like in other industries that are going to happen specifically. It's interesting when we hear Red talking a lot about everyone who's been using the system and getting too much money in the last few years. Left says the main problem isn't that so many people have used the system and got too much money. The main problem is that very many small businesses, small businesses, many who work hard to get the wheels around even in business, have not received enough help. These are the ones we need to help, these are the ones we have to stretch even further to help than the government party and SV has now added up in the settings. The left's main approach is how can we save jobs? How can we save businesses? How can we specifically help the little ones get through this crisis? That's why the Left is in favour of reducing the employer's period of illness down to three days, as it was when the pandemic first struck, in 2020. The submission that is on the table from the Right and the Progress Party when it applies supports the Left. We're not co-sponsors because we're not on the committee. Similarly, we believe that freelancers and self-employed workers must be entitled to sickness benefits from the people's security from the fourth day. There is also a suggestion that the Left supports the whole heart. We also come from the Left side to support Red that self-employed and freelancers should have a degree of compensation of 80 pst. and not 70 pst., as it is from the government party and SV. That's what we think is a right and reasonable handshake to some of those who have striven the most and experienced the most insecurity during the pandemic. From the left side, we are pleased that these things are now coming on the table. There is, of course, a lot in the settings that we support. Finally, there are issues that take away a lot of uncertainty for many, but at those points I'm talking about, Left suggests that the government party and SV don't set up enough. Here we're going to go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e917	After a time of something near normal everyday life, the situation turned abruptly on the late autumn last year. The mutation omicron caused the situation and further developments to be very uncertain, and the government was then forced to introduce strict measures to prevent infection. We know very well that both the development of infection by itself and the measures taken to prevent infection are a great impression, both for workers and for employers. Thus, the government was quick to alert and introduce measures that could remedy the pressures on both workers and businesses. It is true that the measures must last as long as the crisis lasts. It has our starting point for this government all the way. Prop. 48 L was prepared with the situation before Christmas in front of the eye, and he was provided at the beginning of January. Therefore, we also believe that it is quite right now to get the adjustments that Stortinget has made, with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV in the head. These are changes that focus on social justice and on being able to have an income to live on, both below and not least after the pandemic. Although the labour market and the economy of the country in general are affected, the development is not as good for everyone, and there are some industries that are now experiencing very demanding times. Then we're forced to work along two tracks. The one thing is about the corona handling itself; it's about giving security to people and to businesses in what's a very difficult situation. The second track is about addressing the underlying structural challenges we face in Norwegian working life and the Norwegian labour market, which were there before the Korona, and which can be further enhanced by the Korona. On the one hand, it is about the growth of young people, as we saw in the previous government, and on the other hand it is about the development of the number of long-term unemployed, and on the other hand it is about cleaning up in industries where there is insufficient order of business today. But this proposition and this setting take into account the first track, what's involved in dealing with the situation of the corona. This includes: on the extension of emergency measures to last until March, on the strengthening of measures for self-employed and freelancers, on the provision of better income protection for people who have been on leave for several periods, and on the removal of the three waiting days in order to obtain daily pay. Track two I look forward to discussing on later occasions, because there will be a need for several structural changes to improve the situation of workers. It's about relationships that the previous government didn't do enough to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e930	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e935	On January 20, the commentator in VG, Astrid Meland, wrote that she had found out that the crisis support unit in the Ministry of Justice had sent out a letter to all the departments to plan for a sick leave of over 20 p.m. The question then arises as to why the government does not propose to reduce the employer’s days, both for freelancers, for self-employed and for ordinary employers, down to three days, as was previously the case in the pandemic, as sick leave was also lower than it is estimated to be now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e940	I will record the double communication from the right hand side on how to handle the coronary apathy. On the one hand, they seem to be very busy that one has to switch to the most ordinary arrangement as quickly as possible. They express themselves critically from this talking room that one has chosen to extend some of the systems that specifically target workers. On the other hand, they go up to the pulpit and ask that one reduce the employer’s financing of the sick’s absence further – even though today’s government has taken into account the fact that a risk of increasing sick leave, reducing the employer’s period and financing it down to five days, and that we have also been very clear that it should apply to the whole of the first six months. Of course, we will follow the situation closely and make adjustments if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e947	I would first like to remind the Council of State that the Right votes for an extension of the arrangements for the workers to which she refers. The question is, why is she not doing the same for employers, those who are now struggling with a lot of expenses at once? It takes me to the second question, and it is that the Council of State in the proposition writes that during January and February, 16 500 people would fall out of the daily allowance scheme if they did not extend. Of course, this number will only be higher and higher the longer you extend. Now, when we extend out March, which is right-wing, it will also mean that we reach the magical 104-week limit for quite a number of people who have been on a daily allowance all the way. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: does she have a plan for how she should deal with the fact that at one point we will go back to normal arrangements because the infectious diseases measures are rolled back? How, then, will she deal with the fact that many people who go on a day-to-day basis will fall out of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e956	It is quite right, as the representative of Asheim points out, that at some point it will be natural that one no longer continues to extend the coronary systems. It is important that we also have a debate on it, not least because there are many people who have been outside the labour market for quite a long time and who have not had the link with the labour market and the developments it can provide for the competences and opportunities of each. I will then take advantage of the opportunity to remind you that this government has chosen to strengthen the operating budget of Nav by 175 million. kr. It's durable money, not temporary money, that the previous government gave to Nav. Nor is it a continuous cut of red tape and efficiency, as the previous government calls it, which was repeated in the Nav operating budget, and which many experienced could weaken the possibilities Nav had to give people the follow-up they needed. In addition, today’s government has strengthened the number of action sites compared to what the previous government had committed in the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e963	The undersigned noted that the Council of State said that the right-hand side has been critical of the arrangements you choose to put in place for workers, but that is not correct. We fully support that. But what we're critical of is that we don't focus on the employer as much. That's why I want to ask the Council of State a direct question: What is the logical explanation that now, when it's a significantly higher infection than before – not so many hospital admissions, but people are still away from work, because you're in quarantine – you need a worse system than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e970	It's not reasonable to make the kind of comparison that the representative here makes, where he says that a system is worse than it used to be. Well, one had a different Corona situation than one has today. The coronary situation today is linked to the virus variant omicron, which is easily infected by a known virus, and which also has indications that it does not give the same type of disease course as a risky one with previous variants. One is also in a situation where a very large proportion of the population are not only vaccinated but also double-vaccinated. Many are also triple-vaccinated. Then, of course, there is a need to make sound assessments of how the arrangements should be aligned. In any case, we have been concerned that one should reduce the funding of the employer's period for sick leave, and we have made it clear by taking it down to five days. But comparing it – beyond it – with previous phases of the coronary apathy – is nothing one can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e977	I don't share the Council's view of this, because if you're in close contact with someone who's been shown corona, you still have to be quarantined, and you still have to take the steps that the authorities are imposing on you. There will then be a logical lack of equal treatment for employers, which now has to take on a large financial burden. Does not the Council of State share this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e985	I think I've worked out several times for the government's assessments, but what I have to admit is that I'm becoming more and more curious about and looking at, are the assessments of the right party, both the Progress Party and the Right. Do we begin to move in a direction that business should be more or less fully compensated for what is a demanding situation, while workers and self-employed people must be constantly faced with counter-arguments from the right if their schemes are to be extended or improved? I found that very difficult to understand. Of course, it is important that we set up workers, self-employed, freelancers and businesses during this demanding period. That's what this government has done. It also showed the previous debate here today, where one discussed some of the schemes for business, including the wage support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e992	On the SV side, we are delighted to address other major challenges in the world of work and society when the normal situation begins to arise, and we have extended the crisis response as long as the crisis lasts. The Council of State just repeated the important and reassuring message of its contribution. Just how long the crisis response will last is an important part of the discussion we have here today. For this reason, I just want to make sure that the Council of State, with its statement that the crisis measures must last for as long as the crisis lasts, will come to the Grand Duchy with the initiative to extend the crisis measures if deemed necessary before the measures we are strengthening and improving today expire.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e999	Of course, we are going to follow the situation closely, as the representative Bergstø calls for. And if it were to be necessary, we would come back with proposals for extensions. But I let myself add that I hope that it will not be necessary. I hope we get closer to a normal situation. There are many underlying structural problems in the Norwegian labour market and in the Norwegian labour market in which the Corona situation makes it harder to clean up, as many people feel that their demanding situation is being reinforced during the pandemic. In any case, I can assure the representative Bergstø that we will follow the situation closely and, of course, have contact with Stortinget about it when it is natural to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1004	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1011	There is a group of people who are not taken by any of the other arrangements that apply to employees, the lay-offs and the unemployed, who have nevertheless suffered considerable losses under the pandemic. Self-employed and freelancers cannot receive wage support and do not have the right to a daily allowance. Therefore, a separate compensation scheme has been created for this group. Self-employed and freelance workers are found in many industries, but many of them work in the cultural sector in particular. Large parts of the culture had to be shut down due to infectious measures in the middle of the season for Christmas shows and concerts. They did not receive a permit notice. They were standing practically on stage, and the light turned off, and the stage carpet went down. The compensation scheme for self-employed and freelancers was proposed to cover 60 pst. of lost revenue until 28 February. I am very pleased that we have now agreed with the government parties to increase the compensation to 70 pst. and to extend the scheme beyond March. I am pleased that the Council of State now confirmed that she will see if it is necessary to extend the arrangements if the pandemic were to do so. Self-employed cultural workers are still in a very difficult situation, and many in practice continue to have professional bans. The improvements that SV has achieved in the negotiations with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party will lead to more people being able to pay their bills and can afford perhaps not steak, but butter on the bread roll. We need art and culture. Then it's very important that we make sure that someone out there is holding out, someone who still sees a future as cultural workers, even after we put the pandemic behind us. The industry is afraid of high levels of competence because people's everyday lives are becoming too demanding and unpredictable. There are still challenges for self-employed and freelancers in the cultural industry. But with what we're going to adopt here, we're going to take a step in the right direction to keep more people going, and to make it possible to get the culture industry back on track after the pandemic. We know that it will take longer for the cultural industry than for many other industries, so it is important that we stand on the best possible arrangements for those who are hit hard now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1024	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 3-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1041	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1048	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the consideration of this proposal for a representative. The background for the case is that the Right, Advance Party and Red in the treatment of Prop. 46 S for 2021-2022 on changes in the State budget for 2022 under the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation proposed that an additional DKK 1 000 be paid to all those who were unemployed, on leave or in receipt of redundancy benefits at the end of December 2021. This was to lighten the financial burden this group is experiencing because of the pandemic and because of the exceptionally high power prices. In order to implement such a payment, it was noted in the municipal and district ministers’ letter of 6 January that a change in the law is likely to be required in the law on social security, and the sixth paragraph of Section 31 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure does not open up to the promotion of a legislative proposal in that position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. That is why the parties to the Right and the Progressive Party announced the promotion of their own proposal for a legislative amendment. That is the proposal we are considering today. In the last few months there has been a strong increase in the electricity price, and this is very difficult to bear for families who have a strenuous economy. It has therefore been important for the Right to support the proposal for the temporary strengthening of housing aid and social assistance, as well as to extend the schemes so that more could be covered by them. On three occasions, additional payments of housing aid were made in 2021 to cover increased electricity costs. This is also necessary in January, February and March. However, there are many inhabitants who do not receive housing support but who are struggling to manage the high electricity prices. We think it's important to help this group as well. Therefore, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Red Party have proposed to pay this 1000-note extra to those who received redundancy pay at the end of December. The amendment proposed in this proposal for a representative provides a basis for the law on popular protection which can be used for the future to pay an amount to those who fulfil the conditions in exceptional cases. We believe that there is a need for such a legal framework to address the consequences of increased expenditure on individuals. I finally take up that proposal right there is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1065	The representative Anna Molberg then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1070	After all, the debate was linked to this proposal first and foremost in the municipal committee, which sent this bill to us in the Labour and Social Committee. However, I would like to make some comments. Firstly, the government parties, together with SV, have come to this template solution for those who have been re-elected. It hits some of the same target population. Important discussions are also taking place in other committees, and important mechanisms have been put in place to remedy the difficult situation of many people in electricity. But what I think is a little special about those parties, especially the right parties, that are behind this proposal today, is that they have a thought that the welfare state should only be turned on in crises and distributed a thousand copies here and there. The welfare state is a foundation wall that we have to bring with us all the way. The group that the Right wants to remedy with this 1000-note now, those on redundancy pay, would have risked remaining without money if this government had not extended the redundancy period to June. So there's something about a welfare state having to be normal, and then we can reinforce it in crises. There's nothing you can just decorate with ad hoc.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1079	This matter is the result of a previous proposal that has been raised in the Municipal Committee on Electricity. I have to say that after I heard the representative from the Right talk about this matter, there is a need to vent a little. Is there any party in this room that is dependent on the reality we're up against today, namely that Norway imports sky-high electricity prices, it's the right party. At all intersections of the right hand side, the lot has chosen the solutions that require us to accept even more sky-high electricity prices from abroad, and we are now in that situation. This applies either to ACER or to the last agreement signed by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Oil and Energy with the British, three days after the right-wing government had lost the election – an agreement with the British where there are no reservations regarding the security of supply of electricity in Norway, a security of supply we are facing in a critical way today because our hydroelectric plants have almost historically low filling levels. And then the right here says that this has to be corrected through a stencil, i.e. a concrete amount of NOK 1000. It is reasonably free when a real is the main cause of the critical economic situation of many today. But on the matter: it concerns the Law on People's Rights and its provisions, § 22-9, where the Progress Party, Right and Left, with the support of the Red Committee, promotes that there should be a law paragraph on access to payment in exceptional cases. When the Central Party, and the SV and the Workers' Party, are moving towards it, it is because the People's Security Act already contains so many legal provisions, which in total involve such complicated legislation that we have to be extremely careful to complicate this further. If this bill is given a majority, then there is also a situation in which one has to draw up a more detailed set of rules on the exemption, on how to get the money to those affected. In this way, we are creating new arrangements that mean that our Nav system will be further burdened with the design of legislation and the payment of money, which will be very demanding. That's why the Center Party is opposed to this change in the law -- we're against having a separate paragraph dealing with payments in exceptional cases. Because the last thing we're facing here is that there's going to be a balance between how detailed we're going to be in terms of the enormous costs that it's going to lead to for the system, and that it's going to be incomprehensible to the users who are entitled to the different schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1090	The madness of the situation just described by the representative Lundt own cannot be clearly emphasised, precisely that by being connected and partly subject to the European power market, we are exporting power and importing high prices. For this reason, political control of force is necessary, and the SV look forward to negotiations with the government parties on just how we can achieve it, in order to avoid this situation being repeated, and to ensure that the power benefits citizens and industry. So until the proposal we're dealing with now, about changes in the people's pension law to pay out cash benefits: SV has a lot of understanding of a desire to do that, and there might be good reasons to do that from time to time, so to pay out cash benefits to people. But we're not convinced that such a change of laws is necessary in order to make payments when needed. In the case that Stortinget was just dealt with, 1500 kroner, diabolically, for payment to a given group up for debate. The majority has previously agreed to increase the payment to minimum pensioners, and in our view, it is not that the law itself limits the political function and will in terms of payment to people. We also read the answer from the Council of State in such a way that there is no clear answer, but, on the contrary, formulations such as that are probably needed and that it may be appropriate. Therefore, we do not perceive that it is an answer with very clearness, and are voting against the draft representative who is being discussed. At the same time, I can warn that we will continue to promote cash payments to people when needed, and when exceptional circumstances or situations require it. But changing the People's Security Act in order to add up to a cash payment, in a situation that has solutions other than what is being put up for here, and that is being promoted elsewhere, we don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1099	The proposal for changes to the promises made by the representatives is, as I understand it, intended to facilitate a one-time payment of NOK 1000 to all those who were unemployed, on leave or in receipt of redundancy payments at the end of December 2021. This is a proposal that allows a permanent facility to make payments that are not related to the intention behind the scheme. This suggests that you do so without a dial or a draw. I think we should bear in mind that this proposal comes from two of the parties that have been out of government in what is still under 100 days. It shows with weight how they are willing to throw most of the good governance principles overboard, whether they feel that it can give political gain. This isn't about me not seeing people, or not wanting to support what is a challenging situation for many people. I agree with the representatives that measures are needed to compensate for the high power prices. The most important measure in the power pack is also presented in my letter of reply to the Committee. Collect me here for over 13 billion. kr. Measures together will counteract the impact of the high electricity prices, and I therefore do not see the need to introduce, on a general basis, such measures as the proposal for a representative. The proposal for a legal secret in the proposal for a representative gives sufficient authority to introduce the measure, but I strongly urge that such a legal obligation be extended before it is assessed as a whole. I can't see that we know all the implications of such a change. Such a code should also go through a public hearing before he may be assessed for adoption. I would also like to make the Stortinget aware that the type of one-time payment that the representative proposes may, if agreed, result in lower social assistance payments for those who receive it in addition. In this case, there is a consequence that representatives Kapur, Njåstad and Skjelstad or others from their respective parties would like to explain what they have actually thought about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1112	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1117	Many inhabitants are not covered by the housing support scheme, but have equally full problems in managing the high electricity prices. Many also experience a high level of financial insecurity in combination with going on redundancy payments, being unemployed or on leave. The government parties vote against the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and Red for a cash payment of NOK 1 000 to this group, and they also warn today – as I understand it – that you do not want a home in the People's Security Act that opens up such payments in the future. The Council of State now stated that there could be an opportunity to investigate this in the future. Then I wonder why you can't vote in favour of the proposal now, so that more people can get quick help right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1122	I've just done the right thing: it's because you don't know the range or the consequences of introducing that kind of home. Neither do the representatives who have created it. At least I haven't heard them yet give an assessment of how they think that payment should be balanced against those who get social assistance and who depend on it. Social assistance is a subsidiary benefit, and with such a one-time payment as one here suggests, it risks being included in the social security bill from the Nav office. The kind of holistic assessment I expected that a party like Right, which is used to thinking of as a responsible governing party, had brought with it the proposal for a representative and in this room, but so far we haven't seen anything about it. This government is busy helping people who are experiencing a difficult situation, whether it's the coronary apex or it's the power crisis. For this reason, we have also put forward a number of measures to limit their everyday economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1130	I thank you for your answer. This is, of course, a general access to making payments in completely exceptional cases, and the government has, as mentioned in this room earlier, proposed a supplement of NOK 1500 for a much smaller group of people. It's a very limited scheme, and the right believes it should be a better solution to pay an extra NOK 1000 to a much larger group. But what we are discussing today is not the amount to be paid – we are discussing whether the government should have such an opportunity to pay out amounts in exceptional situations. It was clarified by the government's own Council of State that there is a need for a change in the law on popular protection in order to do this. If the proposal got a majority today, the law would come into force immediately, and the payments could have started. Why doesn't the government want to secure such a warrant today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1137	And once again, I just did the right thing for that. This has not been properly assessed, this has not been fixed in any way. And the fact that a formerly responsible management party thinks that one should throw that kind of guiding principle on the boat and just jump on a law house, I have to admit that I am quite surprised. There is a significant difference between the bill in the proposal for a representative and the proposal for additional payments to the beneficiaries of the day-to-day allowance, i.e. the stencil payment we are talking about in the previous debate. Power support is not a social security benefit that exists in the people's protection laws today, and so neither can one use the popular protection laws § 25-16, which is the home of all the special arrangements in already existing people's rights due to the coronary apathy. He cannot allow such support. But the additional diabolical benefit that is proposed for those on leave who receive a daily allowance is, of course, to look at it as just a supplement to the daily allowance to which the person concerned is entitled, according to the rules that otherwise apply for a daily allowance. Thus, a person can use this home to contribute to this stencil payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1144	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1151	During this debate, there have been many different arguments as to why the majority does not want to make the necessary decisions in order to pay out an extra NOK 1000 to those who are on the payroll or payroll because the electricity price is high. The representative Moflag said they have a different system that hits some of these. It is an exaggeration to say ‘some’. There's a few of these. Just to take an example: an additional NOK 1000, as proposed by the Right and Advance Party, represents a cost of SEK 300 million. kr. The grip that the government parties are now doing, along with SV, has a cost of $8 million. kr. It says something about how many fewer people meet with a different, diabolical system. We can stand here and hit each other in the head with paragraphs and rules and hold on, but it doesn't help those people who have high power prices now and who are struggling with it. I really think that the majority parties, who today are voting against not the 1000 bill, but the amendment of the law that makes it possible to pay out that kind of extra support to those who need it in special situations, are voting against it because they are against it. That's a better explanation, to be completely honest. SV and the representative Bergstø state that she does not believe that a change in the law is necessary. The reason why we have promoted a change in the law is that the municipal minister has said that a change in the law is necessary, and since it was not adopted in the municipal committee because it could not be adopted because we had to have a change in the law, we promote a change in the law that comes to the labour and social committee, and then the same parties vote it down there, because they don't think we need a change in the law. I understand that one can disagree politically in this grip, but in that case say so; say that one disagrees with the fact that one has to pay a thousand more cents now because of high power prices. Now, when this is down, unfortunately, what Molberg's representative said is not really a matter of this arrangement right now, because it can certainly be problematical as much as you want in a department, but that means that we don't have the authority to do similar things in the future, if that's necessary. I'm very sorry about that. So anyway, it's the power that comes into play, and the Workers' Party, the Center Party, and the SV have agreed not to adopt this, even though it would be a very useful opportunity to have for future situations, as the Mayor says you need to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1162	The reason why SV understands the proposal being promoted today is that there can certainly be situations where broad payments could be made quickly. An example of that is when society is paralysed by a pandemic. It's when the streets are empty for people, when the workplace is quiet, when the world has stopped and the accounts shrink. Then there may be good reasons to sit down and think quickly and agree on how to get out cash payments and emergency aid as quickly as possible to those who need it the most. The aid schemes came very quickly when the corona hit. First of all, they arrived unconditionally, which would provide social protection for workers and ensure that the money used was correctly spent. This is why it is particularly important to call for that kind of crisis management now, when we deal with other tracks to remedy the situation for people who lose money and who are struggling with high electricity bills. That's why I also have to ask questions about the credibility of the basis here, because it's not like someone doesn't want to put up with people who are struggling with high power bills, or who can't get paid other bills. But it is obvious that there are different points of conscience and different people you listen to, when cash payments can easily be made to businesses and businesses, while this type of crisis management does not come until after a new government is in place. And then I'll quote the Council of State Gram, which says "probably necessary," and the word "believable" is not a perfectly obvious understanding that here it is necessary. It's a very careful insinuation that it might be. There's no doubt that we're on the verge of combating the market power that's running with people, which leads to increased power prices, and that we're working to find good arrangements to remedy the situation, as well as to strengthen well-being and payments for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1175	The undersigned had not really intended to take the word in this matter, because I thought it was so well lit by the first article. But in the meantime, I have nevertheless felt a certain need for it. I am not going to go into a power debate or into an environmental debate, but at least one thing must be clear: one cannot sit in the error and believe that it is not the misleading policy in Norway and in Europe that is why we have the electricity prices we have. It just has to be that simple. What this matter is about is a change in the law that allows the directors to pay a cash benefit. There have been substitutive explanations from the government parties and SV on why you do not want to support this. The Council of State said that the consequences were not well established. No, but the state councils have repeatedly put forward their own issues, as we see in the media, which at all have no impact assessments behind them. So if you can suck it out of your chest, it's obviously good enough, but if it comes from someone other than the governing parties and their supporting parties, it's not good enough in this room. Be honest with yourself and say that it did not come from you, and therefore you cannot support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1182	The case concerns legal amendment. This concerns the Law on People's Rights and a proposal from the opposition on new § 22-9, Payments in exceptional cases. In previous debates, the Minister of Local Affairs has pointed out quite correctly that what was then the opposition's proposal was not a case of law. The Minister of State said, of course, that legislative proposals must be promoted. The Social Security Act is in the Labour and Social Committee. We have dealt with this matter. We now disagree between the position and the opposition as to whether it is right to have a new section 22-9, Payments in exceptional cases. What I tried to say was that if one receives such a change in the law, one still has a challenge as to how that money is to be paid according to that amendment. It is very complicated to find solutions here where to hit those to be reached, those to be improved, while those who are in charge of administration – then Nav – can do so in a reasonable, straightforward way, without overloading Nav, who are in a difficult situation otherwise. In the case of those who are now on leave after 13 December, who have previously been on leave and thus have a lower daily allowance basis now than they had on the first leave, we have in the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV submitted for a cash payment, i.e. a template, in the special case. We have solved that problem with the costs it has for Nav. We're fully aware of that, but it was necessary for us to do a job for the specific group. What was originally the proposal of the party Right with several, was a system that would apply to both those who were unemployed, those who were on leave, and those who were recipients of redundancy payments. It is quite correct, as the representative Asheim said, that it was much more expensive and included many more. The reason why the Right has promoted such a proposal is that they have provided a power policy in which to import sky-high electricity prices. There's something people have to be aware of when you're looking at how far the Right is a party that takes care of one's interests in the economic field.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1193	I think it is quite special by the representative Moflag from the Workers' Party when she almost questions the Right's view of the welfare state, and in addition gives us opinions that the welfare state should be a kind of adhoc system that we can just turn on and off. What we're proposing here is a general access to the people's protection law to be able to pay out financial support to those who already receive benefits and have a strenuous economy. It is an extension of welfare schemes we propose, not a restriction. When the Workers' Party insinuates that this is a restriction on welfare benefits, it is directly wrong. In this case, it is just suggested to ensure an access, for all future, to help people further. Rather, the government parties should be honest and say that they do not want such access, instead of calling the welfare state an adhoc switch that Right turns on and off when we want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1200	The representative Olsen was up here and said instead, it was wrong. He claimed that the government is running and making proposals without payment. Our proposals have been evaluated and illuminated as the executive has occasioned. That one from the opposition makes direct legislative proposals, i.e. direct changes in the legal text itself, has been very unusual, and I would say that it has very little precedent in the past, especially in such a complicated case as this. I have not seen the Right answer to my challenge so far in the debate on how they assess such a payment against, for example. social assistance, which may then be adjusted downwards. The fact that a non-responder to this question also indicates that they may not have thought about it before and have not made the judgements that need to be made here to actually secure the group here wants to secure financially. It's also strange that one takes so easy to change the law to use the personal data of people for something they weren't supposed to do in the first place. It's also very little reliable to make those kind of changes without listening to it. It's a very little democratic way of going forward. I have to admit that one thing is to listen to this from the Progress Party, it's in a way not so unusual, but I had expected more of the Right Party. I would like to stress once again that social justice has been entirely decisive for this government, for the Labour Party and the Center Party, but also for SV. We've been working for socially fair systems throughout the corona pandemic, even when we have a seat in the opposition. We have worked for socially equitable schemes during the power crisis, as we have shown when we have a seat in position and cooperated with SV. When the Right goes up to the pulpit and says that they want to contribute to more social justice, after eight years of giving big tax cuts to those who have the most money from before, and cutting off the arrangements for those who need help from the welfare state, they have absolutely no trust in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1213	One of the groups that this bill seeks to help is people on redundancy pay. If there's something these people have experienced, it's that the welfare state has been turned off for them. They have been thrown into poverty, lost their income security and lost their ability to get good follow-up to return to work. That's what I meant by my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1220	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the matter will be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 8 and 9 will be treated below one.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1250	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1257	I want to start by thanking the Committee for once again having shown a good willingness to deal with relatively comprehensive issues quickly. I would also like to thank the Council of State for having answered a number of questions in a quick, good and transparent way. I would like to extend special thanks to the Socialist Left Party, who is involved in forming a majority for this power support system. Everything comes out of the high power prices, which we also heard at the end of the previous debate. There is no doubt that the situation is demanding for many now. It feels unpredictable, and that people are now anxious about what lies ahead of them, is completely natural. High power prices are socially unfair. It increases the differences between people and also destroys the future prospects of business. The goal is very clear from the government and government parties. We shall and must ensure sufficient access to Norway on reasonable renewable energy in the future. It has been our strength and must continue to be our strength. Just before Christmas we dealt with this power support system. I believe that the power support system is working as intended. It is simple, transparent and can be easily adjusted. That's what the government has proposed in the law and adjustment we're now dealing with, where one increases the support rate from 55 pst. to 80 pst., precisely because the situation is still strained. The prices are higher than one predicted when one made the first power support system. This is to help customers in a very special situation where the power bill is unpredictable. In addition to that, we are discussing a proposal from the Red Party and a proposal from the Advance Party that is aimed at setting a maximum price. As far as the maximum price is concerned, we will not vote in favour of that type of regulation of the power market. We say in the vote — and the Council of State has also expressed it in its reply to the committee — that the government will take the initiative to investigate and look at the experience of those countries that have introduced the maximum price to look at its effects. But there are obvious problems with setting a maximum price. If you look at today's prices, such as from Trøndelag and northwards has ranged from 16 o'clock in the night to 21 o'clock in the highest during the day, as both the Redt proposal and the proposals of the Progress Party will mean a significant increase in the power price in the northernmost regions. I don't know if that's the point. In addition, the flow of power will always go to the areas with the highest price. It's a bit of the mechanism that one does not eliminate by introducing a maximum price. If one had a flat max price across the country, initially much of our power would flow out of Norway to areas with a higher payment rate. One can equal it or not, but at least it's the system that's set up and that works. It is most demanding to think that there will be a good solution to the system that is today. I hope the Stortinget agrees to strengthen the power support system that was adopted before Christmas – that one increases the support rate from 55 p.m.. to 80 pst. That means that one gets more when the power bill is going to be paid, than what was the starting point. Let me conclude by saying that it is our task – critical too, with what we have experienced in the last few months – to assess the situation that is, and get good evaluations and good discussions in the continuation. There is no doubt that our responsibility for managing hydropower in a socially optimal and good way is highest, and that is our responsibility. In the tradition of the Workers' Party, this is proudly anchored, and it will be proudly anchored in the continuation. It's a good statement that the power belongs to the community, and that it's our property and of course it's to be managed then. The goal is very clear: Norway will have a surplus of power. We need to have a stable supply of power, and power should initially be an advantage for both industry, business and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1276	We are in a situation of exceptionally high power prices in South Norway. In the short term, there is only one good solution to this challenge, and it is that the country provides for households that are struggling with high electricity bills. After having been behind for several weeks, the government has now proposed a necessary improvement of the power support that was adopted before Christmas. It's not, as the representative Aasland said, because the electricity prices in January are higher than they were in December – that's the opposite, the electricity prices are lower now than they were in December – but because the scheme put forward in December was not good enough. The right considers that the current support currently provided is not good enough, and therefore suggests that the aid should be of 85 pst. But in other words, we will support the government's proposals. It is also announced that support schemes will be put in place for the greenhouse industry and agriculture. That's good, and we'll face it. From the right-hand side, we would also like to see a more distributive arrangement initially. Before Christmas, we also proposed that the unemployed, on-the-job workers and the recipients of the redundancy allowance should receive additional support. While it is positive that a regulatory framework is proposed to regulate district heating, what concerns now is that it is still unclear when housing laws and associations with common meters are to be included in the scheme. It is essential that this is put in place as soon as possible. I am glad that the government has finally announced that there will be support for volunteering as well. This was something right-wing demanded as early as December, and the government has taken good time to assess the need. It remains to be seen in the details of the government system, and it is urgent to clarify this, so that sports teams and other non-governmental organisations know what they have to do with. Children’s and youth sport has already been severely affected by coronary restraints, and it is essential that facilities can be kept open even if electricity prices are high. Another part of society that now notices the high electricity prices is our businesses. Industrial enterprises and other large enterprises have long power contracts and have tended to secure themselves against the large outflows in electricity prices. For some enterprises, electricity costs are also a relatively small proportion of the costs, and as there are wide variations in the way businesses are affected, universal schemes have little to do with them. Therefore, it is particularly the smaller enterprises in South Norway that now need a hand bill, and the Right therefore proposes an application-based municipal compensation scheme reserved for enterprises where the real electricity costs represent a large part of turnover. The grant funds are granted as discretionary funds distributed through the government manager, and we have suggested 2 billion. kr as an appropriate framework. The scheme will also include non-governmental organisations and sports teams. Many municipalities will also receive large revenues as a result of the high electricity prices. About 55 pst. power plants in the country are owned by municipalities and county municipalities. We therefore assume that high-income municipalities should not be included in such a compensation scheme, but encourage these municipalities to make similar schemes themselves. Today we also deal with two representative proposals to introduce a maximum price on electricity. I understand that it may seem tempting, but the reality is that the maximum price of electricity will create more problems than it solves. A state-regulated maximum price may evolve rapidly to become a minimum price, where consumers will pay far more for the flow over time than they would otherwise do. A constant price of power will also weaken the incentives to save on water in the warehouses in the autumn and, in the worst case, could lead to rationalization. At the same time, incentives to invest in new power generation willbe weakened, and implementation ofincreased measures may be less favourable. The cheapest and most environmentally friendly energy is as well-known as not being used. Norway’s power system is very sensitive to fluctuations in temperature and rainfall, and the intention of Norwegian water storage plants varies considerably between dry years and wet years. Imports of force will therefore be necessary during periods. If the import prices are higher than the maximum price, the power imports must be subsidized. At the same time, export values will be reduced in wet and warm years. There is a lot of talk that a state maximum price can be expensive for consumers and the community, and that it will reduce the value of the hydropower of Norwegian society. At the same time, it has been possible to draw fixed-price contracts on electricity in the market that provide the same benefits that proposers wish to achieve, but without all the disadvantages that the price mechanism would have to be completely out of play. Energy Norway has calculated that for the last ten years, including the extreme year 2021, consumers could have signed a fixed-price agreement at a price of 34.5 øre per kWh – i.e. lower than both of the proposals on the maximum price now on the table. Spot price contracts would have given a price of 34 øre per kWh. So the risk premium has been on the edge of 0.5 cents since 2011. Then it's a cross of thought that under 4 pst. Norwegian households have a fixed price contract. It's way below our neighboring country. In the longer term, it is important to implement anincreased measure, but above all, to build up considerably more force in Norway. We have natural assumptions that few others have. Especially in marine wind, the potential is enormous, and it is therefore important that the government clarify the framework conditions quickly, so that we can move forward with this effort. I'm dealing with the suggestions that the Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1304	The representative Nikolai Astrup has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1309	It is interesting to hear the right story about a government that is too late and has not delivered enough. Thus, it comes from a batch that has increased the electricity charge for eight years and that received a decision in the Stortinget last year, where they were to investigate measures against high electricity prices — and it ignored them. But leave it. We are in a critical situation with record power prices. Many people are struggling to pay the electricity bill and make ordinary household and family budgets go up. Many have to give priority to important items in the family everyday life to save money to pay the electricity bill. It's not a situation that's durable. I feel that we in this room agree, across parties. Access to electricity is a fundamental asset of well-being in a dark and cold country such as Norway. The government has a clear objective of predictable low electricity prices based on Norwegian conditions, where the power is to be the Norwegian industry and the competitive advantage of Norwegian industry and not to the detriment of people and businesses, as it is in these days. The current situation is described by someone as acute and transitory. This is not necessarily right if we do not take clear action on energy policy in the future. If there is one thing that is certain, it is that the market is poorly suited to ensure social cohesion. Now that our power market, with a strong impact on the power market in Europe, is running smoothly, the state has to take responsibility for correcting the distortion of market forces. This is why the government has put in place more powerful measures. There's a matter of power support for agriculture. There's a case of support for volunteering and sports. A support scheme for the greenhouse industry is in place. Housing aid has increased, and more social assistance has been allocated. There is also a separate support scheme for students, and the electricity charge for the current year was reduced by 2.9 billion. kr. It shows that the government is taking the situation seriously and is taking targeted action. The issue we are discussing today is the power support for households. The government has worked quickly and introduced that scheme as of December, following the decision of the Storting. Then it was introduced with a support rate of 55 pst. for electricity prices above 70 øre per kWh, up to a consumption of 5000 kWh per month. The fact that the government has now proposed to increase that support to 80 pst. shows that you are taking the situation very seriously and that you are following along. For example, an exclusive dwelling with an annual consumption of 27000 kWh will receive NOK 2,463 in social benefits for January, based on a power price of 143 kWh. The aid scheme is non-bureaucratic and takes effective action. The fact that the state is now going in and paying parts of the electricity bill to people is historic. It is not a practice we have had in the past, and it is a new crime that the government has had to drag the path itself. We know that the power support system has been useful to many. At the same time, we know that high electricity prices are still challenging, and therefore the level of support is now increasing. Common measured consumption, e.g. in housing laws and for district heating customers, the scheme shall also include that provision. It is not on political will to include those groups. The problem is simply that there is a technical solution that is difficult to put in place, as it cannot operate solely on the basis of the end-user groups of the network companies. Now you have to go inside and split some of them up, and it takes a little bit more time. Both housing laws, share apartments and district heating customers shall be included in the scheme as soon as technically possible. In this debate, a wish for a maximum price has been expressed by many, and we are also discussing a proposal on it today. The government has said that there is an opportunity you need to figure out more. A case to be brought before the Storting must always be properly resolved. So we're not excluding anything, but we're going to have to look at what it might look like before we go on with the idea. In the same way, the system we are dealing with today should also be evaluated. That's what a majority decides. Our goal is always to have predictable and low power prices for Norwegian households and Norwegian industry. The Government shall also set down an Energy Commission. It will look at the relationship between power generation and future power consumption. In other words, what measures can ensure that Norway is a surplus nation in the future? Norwegian households shall not have to be clients or beneficiaries. Norwegian households should be confident that Norwegian electricity prices reflect the fact that electricity is a social asset in Norway, where prices are predictable and to live with for all, both people and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1332	When I listen to the representatives from the Labour Party, the Center Party, and also from the Right now, none of them have mentioned the fact that outside this hall yesterday there were thousands of protests against the sky-high stream calculations that are dumping into the mailboxes these days. The same thing happens in all other cities in Norway. It's a formidable uprising that the Norwegian population in power-rich Norway will have to pay a lot of dollars a kilowatt-hour. They are concerned about homes and homes and pay more in terms of electricity than they pay in mortgages and other expenses. It's dramatic. But it seems that the politicians in Stortinget haven't come into it, met the people or went down on the floor and listened to what the inhabitants actually say. The reality is that when the current prices are at the current level, the state is the one that spends money on the treasury. At least 28 billion have been confirmed by the Minister of Finance. kr is included in additional income, in which case neither electricity tax nor VAT are included. This means that the Norwegian state is scoring at sky-high power prices. It's public that owns the power, and then the inhabitants and the business community get the bill. Inhabitants and households in this country account for 35 pst. of the power consumption in Norway. 65 pst. is service provision and industry and industry in addition to it. When the government now creates a scheme to hit for 35 pst, there's an arrangement there for 8.9 billion. kr shall be returned to the inhabitants, who are less than one quarter of the State's income, and so on, and if one takes with State and Statnet in addition, it is even higher numbers and even lower percentages. It's the system to support those who have 35 pst. by the consumption of electricity in Norway. The other 65 pst. So the power consumers in Norway are not going to get anything, and we are getting alarming messages from the business community. There are small and medium-sized enterprises, but also large enterprises, large power-intensive industries that are struggling and facing huge challenges, which may have had 60 000 – 70 000 kroner in current accounting and now suddenly have 500000 kroner. Everyone understands that this is also a danger to the workplace. So that's the suggestion. The government has a scheme that gives less than one quarter. We in the Progress Party have proposed to remove the electricity charge, remove VAT, cash support, and we now made a proposal on the maximum price. Then it's not right that the Labour Party and the Right said that the proposal from the Advance Party for a maximum price of 50 cents is the same as the proposal from Red, who wants to control the market system. Our proposal is exactly the same as the government's proposal. We say 50 cents at the maximum price and we want to cover it all. The government has 70 cents and has to cover 80 pst. over it. But we don't break market mechanisms, it's important to get involved. There are two different bases, and we want a maximum price. Of course it's like 16 cents in mortars and other 16 cents places, the population pays 16 cents, but where it goes over 50 cents, it's only 50 cents. It's the state that compensates for that extra cost. Power producers get exactly what they are going to have on the market. That's the basis. We're sitting here at Stortinget, the top political body in Norway, and we have an extraordinary situation of power prices that are quite extreme. About a year ago, there were low prices of electricity in Norway. Now, when we get a price that goes to heaven because there's a faulty environment and climate policy in Europe that drives gas prices straight up and power prices follow, you can't be able to figure out what really hits the inhabitants. The progress party has tried to invite you to a wide settlement. The Labour Party and the Center Party did not break their answer once. It's okay, we're recording it, but we in Stortinget should have a responsibility to figure out something that really hits the inhabitants, that's targeted, that makes a big difference for most people. Today, people are equally concerned about the bills that come in February and March, because they know they're getting sky high, and the inhabitants are equally concerned about their own economy, and the managers are really worried. We should be in this room, too. There may be serious problems for business with job losses. We have our suggestions that we have made. We have also submitted support for other proposals, so it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1353	The representative Frank Edvard Sve has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1358	A lot of people are struggling with the sky-high current calculations now. Several of them we met both outside here yesterday and around in other southern Norwegian cities yesterday afternoon and evening. Therefore, it was good that the Stortinget before Christmas set up a support scheme to cover some of the increased power costs. The scheme is not perfect, but it was more important to put in place a scheme quickly and get paid out support quickly than waiting for a perfect scheme. SV would have liked a step-by-step support, where they received higher support for the first kilowatt-hours used, than for the last. It would both give more to those who need it the most, and it would have done more to prevent us from supporting luxury consumption. But we recognize that by the time we had at our disposal, and still have at our disposal, you don't have a more perfect system in place now. We cannot wait to pay out the increased support, which this kind of proposal would now lead to. This would lead to great delays in the payments and thus problems for the many who are struggling with the electricity bill. We have recently seen more headlines in the papers on housing rights and jointers that have still not received power support, and we have realized that the government is still working to get this in place. But there is now an urgent need to get these arrangements in place, because there are many people living in living quarters and communities with a common current meter, and several places are now being signalled that the rent will increase if the power support does not arrive soon. So we hope that the government will now quickly get in place that support also for housing law and cohabitation. On 18 January, the government announced its own power support package for sports teams and other non-governmental organisations. High electricity prices have caused considerable problems for many teams and associations, and several alerts are now increasing the membership quota. It's very unfortunate and will again hit those who have the worst advice, who can't afford to send kids to children's football or other sports or cultural activities. We therefore expect the government to follow quickly what they announced on 18 January, and come to Stortinget with a proposal for power support to the voluntary organisations, and we look forward to negotiations with the government on this. Then we also have to start discussing how to avoid getting into this situation in the future. I hear that the Progress Party does not want to do anything about what is the cause of what we are now seeing. The strongly market-liberalist policy that has wrestled with the Norwegian people this winter, the Progress Party wants nothing to do with it. SV has launched several proposals on how to ensure predictability and access to meet its basic demand for electricity for a reasonable amount of money. We have proposed the creation of a separate government agency that buys a large amount of power from the producers, which they then sell to Norwegian consumers for a reasonable amount of money so that they can meet their basic needs. These agreements with consumers, between consumers and the country, can also include carrots that stimulate energy efficiency improvement. We believe that this kind of proposal is what we now need to give people predictability and security for the years to come, and I'll bring it up with the proposals SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1369	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1375	The reinforcement of the power pack is a recognition that it was too poor initially. As early as December, Red proposed lowering the threshold for when the aid was to be put in place – not at 70 cents, but at a lower rate – and also increasing the State’s share to 90 cents. Not enough that the matter we are dealing with now is a recognition that the state share has been too low. The government has also blocked the electricity prices – again. 1.4 B.C.E. kr of the so-called strengthening of the package is going to pay the price for what the government itself decided in December. Then the government has not taken the call from the people seriously. I find it embarrassing that a social-democratic government is unable to conduct social-democratic policies in the face of the power crisis. Social democratic politics is not giving alms to ordinary people. Democratic socialism is about withdrawing democratic control of the market. Most people don't need power support. They want back what the state has taken from them. For while ordinary people experience a price shock, the state incites between 30 and 40 billion. kr in increased income. This is a run, and it's a shame. What are we going to do with a rich state if the people are poor? The power crisis reinforces economic differences and creates poverty. The government has set up a bureaucratic system in which people get crumbled back. Laws of residence, joint stock and limited liability companies have not yet received support. The intersection is a desktop theory. It is not based on actual consumption, and here I refer to the Red's proposal to calculate the average from daytime and not night, to which it is possible for several parties to join. Red also supports rubble and bits that can improve and strengthen the regime of government, but we also promote our own proposals, which we believe are more than a patch on the wound. Red suggests a maximum price of 35 ø/kWh, three times the production price for electricity in Norway. It costs less than 12 kroner/kWh to produce the power, while customers this winter have paid more than 6 kroner for most, and without VAT and taxes. This super profit should have been illegal. Instead, we should use the pricing law to limit the rate of return to the benefit of both households and businesses. The arguments against the maximum price are mildly varying. We're told that it gives more expensive power, but Red's 35 cents/kWh proposal is just above what's been the normal, what's been the cut. So that argument doesn't hold. We are told that the maximum price leads to waste, and that is very special, for this winter the high prices have not reduced energy consumption – this winter has increased consumption, despite too high prices. And how can that be? Well, that's because the main single factor of how much electricity households use is temperature, and it's been called this winter. It tells us one thing, that power is not a luxury product. Power is a necessity; it is a fundamental human need. In Norway, we need energy to heat our houses, and for the sake of order, Red also promotes a proposal to introduce a two-price system through our charging system, precisely to limit luxury consumption. It's a much fairer and fairer way to deal with problems of wasting. The last argument against a maximum price is that it would threaten security of supply. But if there's one thing this winter has shown us, it's that the market is threatening security of supply. The power industry has tapped the warehouses to sell the electricity expensive when prices are high. It even says representatives of the power industry itself. They dispose of the hydropower to get the highest value. It's not the same as security of supply. It's overtime that we take back democratic control of the power market. The government owns the power, and it should only be lacking that it is now sold at reasonable prices to the owners – namely, we, the community, and at prices with which we can live. With this I address the proposals that Red has alone or together with the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1396	The representative Sofie Marhaug has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1401	We're in an extraordinary situation with very high power prices. We have to deal with that part, and we have to do it as fast as we can. Although the Left had wished for a more focused arrangement for those who have the most misguided advice, see footnote. proposals we had before Christmas, and also with targeting against the unemployed and permitted, and that we got a system that was more targeted at those who don't have a high consumption, but a lower consumption, we're going to support the proposal to increase to 80 pst. support over 70 øre, in line with setting. There is every reason to be concerned about the situation in joint ventures, housing laws and share apartments that have shared measured consumption, which many have also experienced. It is important that the arrangements are put in place, and that the government delivers on it and follow up the decisions that were made before Christmas. It's also the case, as you've been told, that a lot of companies now have very high expenditures. Voluntary teams and sports teams have very high costs, and this also needs to be handled. We were in on that before Christmas, and in this case we have a proposal together with the Right to get a system through the municipalities, so that they can handle it. This concerns the municipalities in South Norway, where you have high prices, and which don't even have high incomes from the situation we're in. I also believe that local politicians in municipalities that now have very high incomes – because not only the state that has high incomes now, there are also many power municipalities that have very high incomes – look on their own initiative at how to remedy the situation of volunteers and sports teams in their municipalities. So to the discussion about the maximum price, and about why we've ended up in the situation we're in right now. It is not because of a failure of climate policy in Europe, as mentioned by the representative of the Progress Party. It's because of the price of gas and that you have low gas stocks in Europe. The extent to which it relates to the situation in Ukraine is difficult to say. But it's a fact that Gazprom delivers only what they're under contract, and nothing more. So here there's also other forces behind the situation we're in now, with very high prices. The answer to that is to go forward. Both we and Europe need to become less dependent on fossil energy. In Norway, we need to expand more renewable energy, for example. solar energy. We have a great potential there. We need to look at Sweden and have Swedish states on it. We need to move on with wind power, with sea wind as the main instrument. On land, new production will be limited by the cuts made by the Stortinget in the past, but at sea there is a high potential. It must also be linked to the hybrid cables required for us to start that production and that industry. I think the maximum price will give less incentives for wanting to expand new renewable energy. It will give less incentive to an island, which is absolutely necessary for us to now deliver, both the 10 TWh in existing buildings that it has long since been adopted on the Stortinget, and that we deliver on it by 2030. For proposal No 2 on case No. 9, to ask the government to tighten up the demands for an increase in income towards business buildings, I can say that although the Left believes that we have adopted this several times before, so the government has to do so, we are still going to vote for it. Even if it doesn't get a majority today, I want to stress that this has been passed, and I expect the government to come back to how we're going to reach the 10 TWh by 2030. We need to focus more on renewable energy while taking care of nature. We also have a natural crisis in Norway. We need to focus much more on energy efficiency, but we need to do so together with the climate objectives we are going to achieve, and with the climate objectives that are to be achieved elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1420	Access to electricity for heating, light and cooking is fundamental to people's lives. Then it goes without saying that the high power prices people now experience are completely unacceptable. The government has put forward proposals for increased support to reduce people's electricity costs. They have announced that they will also help sports teams and non-governmental organisations. Both parts are good, and the Greens will support the improvements proposed by the government. We do that because we are in an acute crisis that requires us to help people as quickly as possible. But the Green Party has been clear that the government's support system is not a sustainable response to the current crisis in the long term, neither for people nor for the environment. The scheme weakens the incentives for power saving and leads to those who have the highest power consumption, also those who get the most money back from the state. Large fluctuations in power prices are probably something we'll experience more of in the years to come. In response to this, the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens For 2021 it would mean at least 15 billion. kr distributed by an equal amount to all. For one thing, it's $2,800, while a family of two adults and two children would have over $11,000. This is a system that strengthens the incentives for power saving, it's unbureaucratic, and it's fair. Yet, unfortunately, Stortinget has rejected the proposal, despite the fact that it is the only solution that, in addition to helping people who really need it, is good for the environment. The economic disparities in our society have grown through the pandemic, and for a red-green government, the proposal of the Green Party should be seen as a golden opportunity to slow down the growing inequalities, while helping the entire population to pay for the extraordinary electricity costs. I therefore hope that the government will at least assess the proposal of the Green Party when they consider the proposals on the maximum price that we are discussing today and that they will also assess the redistributive effect of the different models. The proposals of the Red Party and the Advance Party for a maximum price represent a fundamental change to the Norwegian electricity system. Both proposals impose detailed requirements on such a system and, if adopted, could have dramatic consequences for the population, business and nature. We believe that strong action in Norwegian energy policy will have to be taken in the future to provide people with security, to speed up energy efficiency and to create new green jobs, but major fundamental changes in energy policy require that we breathe with our stomachs. There are good reasons to ask critical questions at a maximum price. We therefore believe that it is unfortunate that such an important matter should be dealt with urgently in Stortinget. If such a proposal had a majority, we could in the worst case end up with a system that gives people more expensive power over time, that goes beyond our security of supply, and that also weakens the incentives to expand more renewable power. We should therefore take the time to find out what the actual consequences of the proposals are and how they can contribute to a sustainable solution for people, the climate and nature. That is why we are voting today instead of the proposal to raise a maximum price and the proposal to investigate a two-price system, in addition to the fact that we have previously made proposals for a redistributive power support scheme, where the state's increased revenues are again distributed to all Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1435	The Christian People's Party's starting point is that electricity is a common good. The fact that we have cheap electricity in Norway is something we want to keep going. Unfortunately, the situation today is out of control, as most speakers have been in their speeches. My concern is that the increased, high electricity prices, which have remained over several months now, are particularly affecting those who can't afford it. It also affects us very differently, because we live very differently and have very different needs. As others have said, heating is the main reason for using electricity in Norway, and therefore many people depend entirely on being able to use electricity. We have adapted to the fact that we have had cheap electricity over a long period of time, by the way we heat the houses, by the way business has evolved, etc. That means that the situation we're in now is too demanding for a lot of people. What we've seen in Stortinget in the last few weeks is that the government came up with a support scheme for households, so they found out that housing laws weren't inside it, but should have been inside, that was the volunteer, that was the farmers, etc. The state – the municipalities, the public, the county – incurs money. My heartbreak at this is that we have repeatedly asked the state council what it is the state expects to earn in 2022 at increased power prices, but we do not get an answer. I think that is demanding, because we should have had that as a starting point when we are going to deal with this matter. I think most of us are in line with the fact that the point is not that the state or the public will get a lot of extra income. We want business to work well, and households to be able to pay the electricity bill in a good way. If we had that starting point, it would be easier to discuss which refund we're going to land. The point of mentioning the way in which this matter has been handled is that it is becoming more and more complex. It's kind of a carpet: you see a new hole and you have to sew on a new note. Today, the government put forward a new case in the Council of State on precisely housing law and the way it should be handled. That's good it's coming, but that means we have to have a new round like this – probably an urgent discussion in the committee and then a new round. Then comes the volunteer, then the farmers come, and that's how it keeps going. The point is that one can't meet well enough. Only during this week have I visited various actors. I have visited a small ski resort. It's actually municipal, but it's run along with a sports team, but it's established as an AS, for natural reasons. It is likely to fall outside the voluntary scheme. It's a small facility that's got a huge increase in electricity billing, and that means a huge amount to the community. Public schools – what are they going to do? What should a do if you have received a power bill that has increased by 150000–200000 kroner? Should they cut lines? No, they can't, because the income of public schools is calculated from what a sheep does. In this town, we've seen that St. Sunniva School has a power bill of over 600,000 kroner. The voluntary scheme shall not help the Norwegian Church, which has received huge bills of electricity. They have a lot of big barley to heat up. We've also seen examples of small businesses falling out of the scheme. I have previously made other proposals in this Chamber on how I think this can best be resolved. My conclusion, having seen this patchwork and seeing that one is unable to meet what you wanted, is that it is much better to land on – as the Christian People's Party has done – a maximum price or compensation for anything over 50 cents. I hear the objections to the maximum price that come from some people in this room – and I am listening to it. I think some of it might have something to do with it, but we're talking about January, February and March this year. It's a completely different matter. I also think that it can give us a useful experience. We also know that France and other countries in the same situation have opted for a maximum price. I want to clearly signal that the Christian People's Party is not in favour of the maximum price as a long-term measure, and that is the solution. It may be one of the proposals to be discussed, but it is a temporary measure. Another heart attack from me: there are also other good proposals today related to volunteering and business, for example. on using the same model as for the corona support: one gives the municipalities a certain amount of money, and then they can process applications, so that a prisoner picks up some of the examples I have drawn up, and that I have discovered by being contacted by during this week only. I'm absolutely sure there are many, many more too. I'm pretty sure we're going to be standing here several times over the next few months. We are going to discover new holes that have not been patched. The best thing would have been to compensate for everything over 50 cents. Then it would have been a fair and good arrangement for everyone. I take up the Christian People's Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1465	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1470	The situation in the power market is still exceptional, and this is true both in Norway and in the countries around us. In recent months, electricity prices have increased to very high levels, giving people significantly higher electricity bills. The government has taken this seriously, and we presented before Christmas a series of measures to remedy the situation. The measures included the temporary electricity support scheme that ensures social benefits for households. We have also decided to provide a separate power package for sports teams and other non-governmental organisations, and that agriculture and greenhouses will benefit from the management of extraordinary electricity prices. The government is taking the power situation seriously. Although we put in place a scheme for households just before Christmas, there are still many problems with paying the electricity bills. I therefore propose that the government electricity support scheme for households be reinforced and increased from 55 p.m. until 80 p.m., so that the country takes a greater part of the bill when prices are exceptionally high. This adjustment will apply from January onwards and will be visible on the electricity bill issued in February. An adjustment is also proposed for district heating. A central principle of regulation is that the district heating price shall not exceed the electricity price. The change makes it possible to provide detailed rules on this in the regulation, so that the measure applies to all customers regardless of whether or not they have a connection obligation to district heating, and that means that district heating customers are to receive the same discount as others. In the proposition on the electricity-supplier law presented before Christmas, Prop. 44 L for 2021-2022, it is provided that household consumption in the joint ventures, housing permits and share apartments is to be included in the electricity support scheme. This would be done as soon as it was practically possible. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has today laid down a temporary regulation on social benefits for household consumption in housing companies, and the Government has also promoted a proposal to the Stortinget if necessary. The measure also provides electricity support for housing law laws, joint ventures and housing for shares, which is joyous. As I explained in a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee on 14 January, the price of the power market is determined by means of supply and demand. This is essential to ensure the balance of a complex and complex power market from day to day and from hour to hour. The price signals provided by the market are important to make electricity scarce, that we should save on electricity and make energy-efficient choices, and that we should get electricity imports when we really need it. Price regulation in the power market can lead to adjustments and have consequences in the power market that are difficult to understand. A maximum price may result in the market being adapted in such a way as to increase prices during the periods in which they would otherwise be lower. It can also dampen the incentives for energy efficiency improvement and for lightening the power consumption. I share the representatives' view that it is important to ensure Norwegian consumers and businesses stable access to electricity at a reasonable price. At the same time, I share the same concern expressed by several in the vote that high prices are clearly negative for consumers and business. The Government is concerned that Norwegian electricity customers are to be protected against extreme prices and to have a fair policy on energy conversion in Europe. However, I believe that imposing price caps or other measures affecting the functioning of the power market is not advisable. We don't know what it would have in the short term, and in the worst case, it could exacerbate the situation. For the government, it has been important to find solutions that do not impair security of supply or have unintended price effects in the exceptional situation we are in now. The intention of the proposal for a two-price system is also understandable, but has been proposed and evaluated several times in the past. Unfortunately, it turns out that this has not been found to be a precise way of achieving redistribution between households with high incomes to those with lower incomes. Autumn and winter electricity prices have been exceptionally high, and crises need to be met with crisis response, as the Storting has done and does today. In the future, the government will work on how to avoid Norway getting into such a situation in the future. Among other things, we must: look at how we can develop more renewable energy, so that we can ensure low Norwegian electricity prices for households and industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1496	As I mentioned in my post, there are now many smaller companies that are struggling with high power prices. Large industrial enterprises and large businesses that have electricity as an important input have often secured themselves, but there may be smaller enterprises, such as: dry cleaners, which have low compensation of employees but very high electricity costs as a share of turnover, which now face major challenges. My question is simply: Is it relevant for the government to put forward a compensation scheme that gives a handshake to small businesses in South Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1501	Current prices are very high at the moment, and it affects many negatively, and different power customers react to it. The government has through the Storting, among other things. asked, now put forward a scheme for households, which is the responsibility of the Minister for Oil and Energy, and has ensured that we get to this power support scheme. We have also provided schemes for other groups, sport, cultural life, and industries that have now come under agriculture are also covered by that special scheme. Then the government assesses the situation and also follows up, but it is clear that business is quite complex. There are very different companies in this, so it's not necessarily that it's just copying something like that. the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1508	I did not realize that I received an answer to the question, whether it was relevant for the government to submit such a scheme. But let me ask another question. Governments talked about the need for more power, and in an interview with Europower, the Council of State clarifies that a hybrid cable is not to be regarded as an intermediary link. Is this a sign that the disagreement between the Centre Party and the Working Party is now settled, given whether hybrid cables are considered as inter-territorial connections within the meaning of the Hurdal Platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1516	The government has very high ambitions to build sea wind on the base, and we're also going to agree on how to do this in the best possible way. But I think that the autumn and winter discussions about the high power prices have very clearly shown that there is a need to discuss how we are connected to Europe, and how we can ensure Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers ample access to power. One of our main problems is that the gap we see in the growth of consumption, when all parts of society are electrified, does not match what is planned to produce. That's what made the last government a little bit of it. We want to do a lot with it, for example. by expanding sea winds, and we are now working to clarify those framework conditions. The government, consisting of the Center Party and the Workers' Party, comes back to how we're going to do it quite immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1521	35 pst. of the power consumption in Norway is the household, and the remaining 65 pst. power consumption is service provision and industry and industry. Norway is a demanding country for industry and business. There are distances and climates, etc., but there are also sky-high taxes – property taxes, sky-high fuel costs, transport prices go to heaven. It's kind of a big challenge for the business community, and at the top of the whole thing, it's getting a sky-high power price. You see a power support scheme that doesn't include a comma around the business community. There are both large and small companies that experience dramatic consequences, which had bills of perhaps $50,000 to $70,000 in current, and suddenly there are 500,000 to $600 000 now. So the question is, why has the government forgotten business in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1528	What we are discussing today is just a power support scheme for households, and it responds very well to the mission that the Stortinget asked the government for late harvest in this room. It returns 80 pst over that which is an average force price of 70 cents. That is what we are discussing here in this Chamber. It is worrying for more people that power prices are high. Not least for business, I believe that one of the things that is worrying is that the power price fluctuates as much as it does in today's market. This government is going to do what we can to be able to close the gap between the planned consumption growth and the planned expansion of Norwegian power, for example. by building up more power, so that we meet the need there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1535	It was gratifying to hear that the Council of State says that a system has now been adopted for those who live in housing camps and communities, and a tiny question is: If the Storting is now going to deal with that matter quickly, when can we expect that payments to housing companies and communities will come into place? Then I have a slightly bigger question, and it is linked to the additional message that the government is going to come with. Will the government look there at changes in power policy, and will the government look there at the proposal SV has made, to set up a government body that can buy a greater amount of power on behalf of consumers, which they then sell to consumers for a reasonable amount of money? It's a system that can be compared a little bit to that of the powerful industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1542	I think it was nice that we could manage to adopt that regulation, and that it looks like we have managed to solve the challenges that were, so that the housing laws and housing companies will also be paid what Stortinget decided before Christmas to get. So I'm glad. That's exactly what the regulation is about, that you have to multiply the next month's power bill. Then it will also be up to the housing companies to ensure that it benefits those who live in the housing companies, and there I will also put some expectations to the housing companies. Regarding the additional message, we have notified that an additional message is planned. I believe that after this winter, the power-suppression system and the other measures, as well as those that have emerged in the debate, need to be evaluated and looked at. So that's what we're going to get back to in further debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1549	I have some questions about the answers and the objections to the maximum price proposals. It is used as an argument that the maximum price would threaten security of supply. What's interesting about that argument is how security of supply has been this winter with market management. For example, the Energy Disposal Manager in Statkraft has: to the effect that they dispose of the hydropower in order to obtain the highest value. The level of the magazines has been strenuous. Kraftanalyst Lilleholt believes that it has been worse than the Statnet itself has imagined, but there is no doubt that the magazines have been tapped and that we have sold at high prices in Europe. Does the Minister feel that the market is well suited to ensure security of supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1554	The price signals in the market are important to make electricity shortages visible, and the market is quite suitable for balancing the relationship between production and demand. 2020 was a year when we had a lot of rainfall, we had flooded water storage plants, and we had very low electricity prices as a result. 2021 was in many ways opposite, because we had a dry year. Warehouse filling is still quite low, but there is no crisis in today’s situation related to, for example, a situation in which there is a need for rationalisation or other dramatic measures in order to achieve it. We also see that, among other things, The space Christmas, when we imported more reasonable power from abroad, we saved on the magazines in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1559	It is very good that there is now a system aimed at housing rights and communities – without me having seen the proposal. It is also good to work against volunteering and sport. But I would like to go back to the question that the representative of Astrup had about companies that have very high electricity costs. Now it's over a year since the bourgeois majority put in place a system through the municipalities of businesses based on the pandemic we were in, and still stands in. Before Christmas, a total of 700 million were allocated. kr, including via municipalities, to enterprises that are struggling because of the pandemic. Now it's 500 million. kr as proposed by the Stortinget. My question is, for this is now well-tested: does the Council of State agree that we could provide support via the municipalities to companies that are also struggling with high electricity bills, that it could be an easy way to set up such a support scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1564	I don't want to review these proposals from Stortinget's Chair, because both our power system and our power system are quite complex. The representative of Elvesuen himself stated that the market is quite price sensitive to signals from the market and how it regulates it. Not least, our business life is fortunately flawed and very versatile. We have everything from the small businesses in the corner – bars and cafes and everything we enjoy – to large power-intensive businesses, which also have different power contracts. That's why it's standing there and considering various suggestions on how we can solve that kind of thing, not something I want to do from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1569	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1576	I understand well the outrage and the mind and not least the concern that comes from the high electricity bills that people and businesses get this winter. A historically high electricity price requires immediate action. We have experience from the pandemic, where Stortinget has repeatedly solved exceptional situations with extraordinary compensation packages. We now have a power situation that is completely unsustainable. In record time, we have put in place a power support system and other measures, such as increased housing support, a lower electricity charge and increased support for the students and the municipalities. We have strengthened theincreased measures, provided support to the greenhouse industry and agriculture, and created a separate power package for sports teams and other non-governmental organisations. These are immediate measures that remedy the situation here and now. We have to make sure that we never experience a similar situation. A complete review of the entire Norwegian energy system is now required. An energy commission shall be put down, and all consequences of the device we now have must be looked at. An overall objective must be to ensure that, in the long term, we ensure predictable electricity prices for both private and business enterprises. The results of the work may involve different measures, such as the maximum price and other measures presented on these days, including: through the various demonstrations we have seen throughout the country. Before going through the whole energy system and seeing it in the light of the great transformation that we and Europe are going through, it is too early to make radical decisions that we do not see all the consequences of, as the Council of State and the representative of Aasland were involved in their speeches. The current electricity situation is a consequence of many years of energy policy and the work of several governments. As politicians here today, we have a formidable task ahead of us, and we must make good decisions with a broad political foundation that also lasts for time, and not turn political coins on today's unsustainable power situation. After winter, the electricity support system and the other measures put in place by the government shall be evaluated. It will also be important to evaluate the power situation of winter and the power exchange with the rest of the world. Our job is now to secure the Norwegian people and businesses abundantly with access to clean and reasonable power, which maintains a good well-being and continues to be the main competitive advantage of the Norwegian industry. We need to ensure a predictable and understandable situation for most people – today and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1590	The government is busy helping households manage record electricity prices over the winter. I am very pleased that the insurance scheme for which a total increase voted in December is now increasing from 55 p.m. to 80 pst. for January, February and March. Compensation for the greenhouse industry and agriculture is necessary, and I am very pleased that the government has listened to the recordings made by the industry. Ensuring food producers in this situation is very important. So the centre party clearly shares that concern for increased electricity costs for small and medium-sized enterprises. Here I hope that the government will find some good solutions where necessary. I guess we've all received a lot of feedback from people and businesses who are experiencing a lot of uncertainty, which is frustrated and worried about the power bills that have come and that will come in winter. That is why I am pleased that the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV ensure the government's proposal to increase the compensation to 80 pst. The record electricity prices create considerable uncertainty in this country, and our job in the future will be to ensure that this will not be permanent, that this will not be repeated every winter. The connection to the European market has helped to create the current electricity crisis. The centre party is not a fundamental opponent of power exchange, because we see that this helps to ensure security of supply in Norway, but the concept of ‘power exchange’ is not a good description of the situation we are experiencing in our country now. What we're experiencing now is much more unilaterally exporting Norwegian electricity through the DC cables to the continent. In November 2021, eight times as much was exported to Germany as it was imported, 28 times as much to the Netherlands as it was imported, and to the United Kingdom we sent over 150 times as much electricity as we received ourselves. This is not a situation that serves Norwegian interests in the long term. I am therefore very pleased that the Center Party and the Workers' Party in the Hurdal platform are clearly aware that the government will pursue a policy that ensures that we keep the sovereign Norwegian control of all decisions that have an impact on energy security in Norway, the further development of Norwegian power and energy mix. This will be an important work in the future. I am very pleased with the Committee's position that the aid scheme should be evaluated, because contrary to what some of the opposition is trying to create an impression, the government has acted quickly in an extraordinary situation, which means that we should evaluate these schemes. So it's strange to hear the criticism from parts of the opposition in this room today. The government will be criticized for coming back to the Storing with improvements. For me, there is a strength with this government, because that means that a listener, an adjuster, and a seeker for new solutions to compensate more people who are affected by this price crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1603	Yesterday’s industrial action with the main message ‘yes to political control over the force’ made the impression. The situation with the high electricity prices is difficult for many, both for people and for businesses. The centre party wants national control over Norwegian energy policy. Today we have no regulation on how much power can be sent out of the country. It is therefore important for people and businesses that the government now steers by a platform that determines that no more foreign tables are to be built during the period. It sounds unmusical to me to hear the criticism of representatives of the former government, who would both build a new private foreign table, NorthConnect, and increase power prices. Even I come from Northland, a cold and dark state now in the middle of winter. We've also sometimes had more expensive power prices than usual, but fortunately it hasn't been the same power crisis as any other south. The reason for this is probably contained force, and it shows that the last two foreign tables, which have become pure export cables, have a strong impact on the power crisis. The government has worked well to provide electricity support for people in private households, housing laws, communities, agriculture, volunteers and sports. Everything that has been done is important in the short term, but it is essential to find long-term solutions. The new energy commission that will soon be at work will be very important for the future. We need bothincreased action and more energy in Norway. It will be important to create an overall plan for Norwegian energy, such as hydropower, wind power and solar power. We need an overall plan that benefits both industry and society, taking into account the environment and local communities. But we cannot continue to develop Norwegian nature without renegotiating and tightening up the power exchange agreements that send the power out of the country. We need to protect the security of supply in our country. It is ready in practice. We have a regulated force, which is becoming scarce in Europe. One of the first things that should be done is to upgrade existing hydropower plants and look at new technologies. Sea winds are becoming important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1618	I must first address something that was claimed by the representative Haltbrecken from SV, that the Progress Party does not want to do anything about the underlying problem. It's not right, it's just us who want it. A headless energy and climate policy in the European Union – which unfortunately we import via cables from the continent – with agreements from too much EU-friendly growth that has been far too yielding – is what brings these prices we are now importing. The State Secretary of the Workers' Party even explains the high prices that there is a mixture of different conditions this winter that everyone has drawn in one direction. Gas prices have been high, CO 2 prices have gone to the ceiling, while there has been little wind. There's been cold and little water in the warehouses, he says. There's little water in the magazines because we have exports enormously. But the paradox here is that CO 2 prices and gas prices in Europe are the driving force behind renewable clean Norwegian hydropower, where we have a surplus of power. It's not on your fingertips. Jonas Gahr Støre traveled to Germany this week, we read. It wasn't to renegotiate a power agreement, it wasn't to tackle the problem you're now experiencing. It was to enter into a closer energy cooperation with Germany. That's the last thing we need. They need 80 pst. variable energy. Connecting more closely to Germany will result in crazy exports and a sky-high price level in Norway. Had the EU had an ambition for a CO 2 tax equivalent to Norway’s, at NOK 2 000 per tonne, the State Secretary has told me that an increase of DKK 1 000 per tonne would give 30 øre higher electricity prices, if the same price mechanisms were in force today. That's a doubling of the average price we have today. It's not Norway that's served. Norway had the highest trade surplus last year. The state incurs billions every day of oil and gas. In addition, tens of billions are now collected from business and people's pockets. This is not a matter of concern. To get us through the crisis, I repeat the message from the demonstration yesterday: Prime Minister Støre, now you must hear: max 50 cents! It's a maximum price agreement we can have now to get through the crisis. In the longer term, better action and renegotiation of agreements with Europe in place are needed. Otherwise, this will be a sustained crisis if Europe has high prices, which they are likely to have, for all forecasts, a huge power deficit in Europe in the future. Now it's time to act, this is bloody serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1636	The backbone of energy policy is the climate crisis, the natural crisis. We have a power price crisis in South Norway now, created by a system where one has replaced supply with maximizing profits in the energy sector. Free flow and clean market forces do not take over the capacities of different countries, such as climatic conditions, geography and the need for national control over such a very important infrastructure as electricity. Because it's infrastructure, not an item of equal line to shampoo and toothpaste. For this reason, SV has been against the basic vision set out in the Energy Act of 1990, that one should leave the regulation of the power market 100 pst. to market forces. This means that the force shifts to the one who pays the most, and the ones who lose then, are the ones who have the least ability to pay. We were not – and are not – against cooperation, power exchange with neighbouring countries and exporting surpluses to other countries and cooperating on climate policy, but we are opposed to giving away national control over energy policy at the time of the accession to the Acer and building so much extraterrestrial landscapes for exports. For the reason that Norwegian power customers are now forced to pay blood prices for water power that is cheap to produce, the decision that the Progress Party, Right, Labour Party and MDG commits us to through the Acer connection and the EU's third energy package in 2018. At that time, the Storting gave itself control over the regulation of the electricity price, in an international market, to a body that is not subject to political control. There is now a proposal to adopt a two-price system and a maximum price. We have put in place a support agreement to patch up the problems. It's firefighting and not a permanent system, but it's unlikely that it's important to get it in place. Discussion of the maximum price and the two-price system is definitely on the point of resolving it as possible solutions to the problem of galloping energy prices, but it is not possible to spontaneously adopt this over the table with the international agreements such as the Progress Party, etc. I have been involved. The Party of Progress shall be in favour of agreeing with the SV that it is wise to regulate the electricity price, but these issues were the subject of a major debate on the whole energy policy and the marginal pricing system to which Norway has committed itself in the third energy package of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1649	The representative Sivertsen Næss spoke of someone trying to knock political coins on the power crisis, but the electricity price crisis is a political crisis and therefore also a political responsibility. It's not the laws of nature that govern power prices, it's actually the market laws that do, and the market laws we can take democratic political control of. Then I have some comments on the proposal of the Progress Party on the maximum price, which Red supports, but we get a little confused when we read the proposal, and when we hear what the representatives of the Progress Party say about their own proposal. Because it may seem that this proposal is really about adopting something similar to the government's power support system, namely 100 pst. compensation over 50 cents. It is an improvement in the system of government, and we support it, but that is not what the proposal refers to. Reference is made to the law on price regulation, to which Red also refers, which is to intervene in the market and take political democratic control over electricity prices. We think that's wise. We think it's right to set the maximum price, that ceiling, even lower. Our proposal is 35 cents, because it's much closer to what's normal prices, and what's the fixed-price agreements for industry, but also to avoid the maximum price becoming expensive for households and industry. However, it may seem that the Progress Party has had some kind of internal seminar on liberalism and concluded that they cannot go as far as Red and propose socialist solutions, thus explaining this maximum price proposal in a new and different way. I hope that the Socialists in the Progress Party will win, and that they will also support the Rødt proposal today, because it is about meeting the demands of protesters throughout Norway. They want a maximum price, they don't want a support scheme, they don't want their money taken from them initially. Because the power is ours, and we own it together, and then we're not going to have prices that are abnormally high, and that are not ordinary peoples and businesses actually able to pay. That's not what common ownership is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1658	I'm actually going to dedicate my post to the Socialist Left Party, which had some ideas about what we did and didn't do. One would like to talk about history and the snow as falling last year, etc. Churchill should have said once that whoever doesn't want to change his mind doesn't want to do anything. It's a saying that at least I think it's good to live by, when you see how things develop. In a situation where power prices have been about zero and almost negative in the last few years, and then suddenly there is a dramatic power price crisis with the background of climate and environmental hysteria in Europe and a misguided policy that makes gas prices go to heaven, it may be time to look back and see that it is actually possible to learn from things that are being done, and perhaps change the course. The Progress Party voted against the Acer team with the Center Party as late as last year. For this reason, we have put forward proposals to strangle the export of power to the rest of the world when the magazine fillings come down to a certain level. The Socialist Left Party can support us in this, because the matter is going to be dealt with in the Storting. There is a grip to execute. So you say this is impossible, one can't do it. Sweden can only break the current to Norway, and France and others do the same, but Norway can't do it. At least it's time we started looking at what's happened in some areas. So that's what I don't understand: the Socialist Left Party had the possibility of getting a better result. They could not negotiate with us in the opposition party because they had to negotiate with the Labour Party and the Center Party – negotiate and get exactly the same about 80 ears that the Labour Party and the Center Party delivered, without changing a comma. It must be the worst debate ever. That's not a result. The way I think when I like to go into a store and have cheaper goods, I negotiate a price. I want you to give me a result. That's normal, at least the way we healthy babies are. The Socialist Left Party has not been able to rock one millimeter of the government that has come with it. They could only go to the other opposition party and get a much better solution. We were willing to go into a conciliation, but the Socialist West Party is pushing away the possibility, and we see the result: malicious people because of sky-high power prices and a business that is very concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1671	It was a lot yesterday to see the demonstrations that were all over the country at high power prices. It was strong to listen to the stories of people in our country, and the birthright was not to be mistaken – he was very clear: people want a decent everyday life for their economy. We should provide them with that security. We all have conversations with people who have been in very demanding situations, and who are dismayed by the power calculation saying that is difficult to deal with, and that goes beyond completely everyday things. There are a lot of things we've become familiar with in the debate on power and how power prices have become what they are. We've all got an insight we haven't had before. We've all become experts on power and have been given information that we would never have thought about. Maybe it's time we got this insight that makes us see our system in the cards, because we shouldn't accept everything. We're not going to do that with other wrongs, nor are we going to do it with the wrongs that frame us. Today's situation will be continuously working on finding solutions – solutions that could have been put on the table by the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the partner Progress Party before they went out government offices. It's also a story that has to be told. Right, Christian People's Party and Left did not choose to come up with a solution, but to leave the challenge to the next government. The current government must take responsibility for that job, and it must assess the situation on a continuous basis. Unfortunately, this has not proved to be a quick fix, because, as we have all learned, it is a complicated picture of the construction of a power company, market prices and crunchy framework conditions. This has affected the economy of the individual, and this will be resolved. I understand for those who have lost confidence in politicians, and it is our job as politicians to show that we take responsibility for today's situation, but also for the future. Today's consumption cannot be discussed on the basis of consumption in the 1980s. We live in an electrical society where everything from mobile phones to cars and heating has become electrical. That's how our society is still going to be. We're not going to go back to coal, gas and oil as firing in private homes, and we need power and power. We must have solutions to today's problem, and we must have long-term solutions for the future. We're not going to be in this situation again until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1688	Some of this debate and other energy debates have shown that we need more strength if we are to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, both in energy policy and in climate policy. We just need more power out of the market. That's why we've debated many times, including in this room, how important it is that we upgrade our hydropower plants. As you know, Norway has a lot of them. Yesterday I visited Rainpower Sørumsand, formerly Sørumsand Workshop. This may be Norway’s leading competence environment in upgrading hydropower plants. There you would think that the order books were now full, that things were going so slow, and that our power plants are being upgraded. But no, Rainpower is now going to permite employees because they have too few jobs. It's amazing that the power companies don't use the opportunity to upgrade the power plants we have. In the past, the power industry has said that something has to be done about the financial framework conditions. It's done. The size has changed the depreciation rules to meet the power companies, so that upgrading the power plants would be more profitable. But it happens to a very small extent. There is something uncertain, or rather uncertain, the potential for increased power when upgrading today's power plant. I've seen that the most modest estimates are down to 6 TWh. But I've also seen estimates that they can be up to 10-20 TWh. So if we just take the most modest estimate, 6 TWh, it's something like 4-5 pst. by our power consumption. It's a significant amount of power. So we can increase power production by 4-5 pst, maybe up to 10-15 pst, without any interference in nature. It doesn't solve the whole energy challenge of upgrading today's power plant, but it should at least be a low-hanging fruit, and it should be something we do in addition to other things we have to do to get more power into the market. State power and the other power producers must step up. We need to get more progress in upgrading today's hydroelectric power plant. It will be a loving contribution to significantly more forceful entry into the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1699	This debate is a little recognizable. One tries to show that the government is late with suggestions regarding the extreme situation we're in. If one starts from the time we've been through – which contains many extreme things, from the start of the Korona in 2020 until now – I think this government has clearly shown that it's quite fast on the ball when extreme situations occur. This whole fall, we've been working on the extremely high power prices. It started with a halving of the electricity charge and has been followed up continuously over the winter with this power support scheme, for example, and after each scheme for cultural life, volunteering, agriculture, the greenhouse industry, etc. It's positive that you have a government that keeps bringing matters forward in line with what's reality out there. There's nothing negative that someone's trying to make as – on the contrary. So to the point, high electricity prices are unfortunate in all areas of society. It's not positive in any way. No one wants the high current prices that are now, it's just unfortunate and is the result of different compositions and scopes that work in the same direction. We need to ensure, as soon as possible, that we have measures in place to ensure that this situation never arises again. That's what this is about. It is also good to remember the purpose of the Energy Act when talking about market forces and capitalism into this system, because it says very clearly: «The law shall ensure that the production, transformation, transmission, turnover, distribution and use of energy are carried out in a socially rational manner.» It's not a socially rational way, what's happened in recent times. There is a rather demanding situation for society in all areas. Seeing how we can follow it up with different evaluations, seeing how a person handles and assesses the relationship with exports is important. But the most important thing is that we are able to concentrate on an energy policy that actually takes into account the future – to the green shift, to the need to switch fossil energy into renewable energy and to use the upgrade of hydropower, to which the representative Myrli referred, or to the development of sea wind, to which others have referred. That's what this is essentially about. If we take the most ambitious look in the future, maybe by 2030 we will have as much as 40–50 new TWh in the Norwegian market, just to succeed with industry, job security, etc. Then it's about having a holistic and good policy for it. I am convinced that this government is going to deliver on it, and that we are never going to experience these situations that we now have. And if that happens, people will be absolutely sure that once again we will have a support scheme in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1717	Power prices will not be lower by generating more power by building up nature as long as we are connected to larger price ranges at high and unstable prices, as we have been in the last year, with North Sea Link and Nordlink, i.e. to the United Kingdom and Germany, respectively. It is these price ranges that then determine the price, because they are so much larger, and it should really be understood by everyone who believes in and sockets to market liberalism that this is how the market works. Then they cannot put watercourses in pipes or come up with other creative ways to destroy nature and believe that it will lead to lower electricity prices in Norway, because it will not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1722	The representative Myhrvold was dissatisfied with my story earlier in the debate, but himself he resorts to some sort of history falsification when he mentions a request decision here in the Stortinget from February last year. The representative Myhrvold and, in particular, the representative Merkesdal also gave the impression that a decision was taken whereby the Solberg government would come back and explore a menu of different measures we could put in if the electricity price suddenly would be NOK 2.50. That's not the case. It was about the acute situation last February, increased housing aid was introduced, and the decision was accepted in the revised national budget without any comments from the Central Party or the representative Myhrvold, which means that the Storting is satisfied with the follow-up of the decision by the government. So that history falsification has to end. And the electricity price in April last year and for the rest of the year was 34 cents, so even those who live by predicting the electricity price didn't say it would be 2.50 cents – just so it's said. The representative Myhrvold was also dissatisfied with my mention of the government as «back». Well, there was a budget settlement with SV in December, where you moved in billions of dollars, increased the taxes by 10 billion. kr for industry and increased the dividend from Statkraft to 10 billion. NOK 2022, without finding room to prioritize ordinary people and their sky-high electricity bills. Then I believe that the description «back» is very good, because here you've come in retrospect, nagging after, with ever new propositions, without any overall approach to this. You can still figure out that there was one more group that had problems with this. Well, we asked the government to make an assessment of the situation both for volunteering and the businesses before Christmas. It was downhearted. It might be nice to remember that too. The representative Mossleth is concerned with history, she too. Let me remind you a little bit about the story: it was Eivind Reten from the Center Party that introduced the Energy Act. It was Terje Riis-Johansen as Minister of Oil and Energy who signed the North Sea initiative, committed to building a North Seagrid and several foreign tables to facilitate more sea wind production. Ola Borten Moe followed this up by agreeing to build two new cables for Germany and the UK – the cables we are now discussing – in 2011 and 2012. The truth is, this has worked very well, so the Central Party should be more proud of its history. In the last 30 years, we've had significantly lower electricity prices than any other country in Europe, except Iceland. And then we're in an extraordinary situation, like, among other things. because the gas price was nine times that in December last year, the coal price is up, the CO 2 price is up. This isn't a new normal, this isn't a result of a crazy policy, this is an extraordinary situation. What we are now hearing from the Chamber today is a lot of simple proposals for extremely complex issues that will have endless consequences for well-being, for industry, for business and not least for consumers and their wallets. The target must be low power prices and more power.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1735	For the sake of order, the President draws attention to the fact that ‘history falsification’ has previously been declared an inappropriate parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1740	The progress section produced a small visit to its article here instead. Now, after eight years of supporting different versions of the Solberg government, the Progress Party is trying to give the impression that they're the ordinary people's party. After eight years when the differences in Norway have increased with the blessing of the Progress Party, and after eight years when the tax reliefs to the kingdoms have been greater than ever, at least for a very long time, the Advance Party is nevertheless able to try to present itself as a party to ordinary people. The representative of the Progress Party, Sve, says that the person who is unable to change his mind is unable to move. There might be a lot of right in that, and you might say that people who change their minds are unpredictable. But I want to say that the policy of the Progress Party is very predictable. They mean one thing when they sit with power and authority, and then they mean the stinging opposite when they sit powerless. It's predictable. SV agreed with the government parties earlier this week to increase the power support to 80 pst. At the same time, we said that what's important to us is to secure people who are now struggling most with the sky-high power bills, increasing support. If the representatives of the Progress Party have not brought it with them, I would ask them to follow the matters that are now under consideration in the Financial Committee. There we are now working to help those who are struggling the most with the sky-high power bills. That's important, precisely because the power support system we've adopted is not perfect. We were to, as I said in my previous post, like to have a fairer order, but it was not possible in such a short time. That is why we need to resort to other mechanisms to do something about the justice of the system and strengthen support for those who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1749	Believe it or not, but there are quite a few in this Chamber, the majority in fact, who are for the system we have in energy policy today – which is for us to have a power market, which is for both power exchange and power export, and for us to continue to have and have control and control over our power. But when you listen to this debate, it doesn't seem like this is something the majority of us agree with. Even those who agree with this have said in the debate about many of the very bad proposals that are being put forward here, that we must absolutely clarify this and look at it, we shall not exclude anything, but it must be thoroughly investigated, for example. the maximum or two-price. The Council of State said in its statement that ‘unfortunately’ it turns out that the two-price system is not so smart. I believe that it is not “sorry” – it is quite obvious that it is not so smart. If the cables have been said to help create today's power crisis, this is not a power exchange, it's an export, it doesn't serve Norwegian interests in the long term, we can't drive and send our power out of the country, we have to take control. There are some of the things that have been said in this debate. Of course, we have a responsibility to solve the acute situation we're in, but those of us who are for this system also have a responsibility to build and maintain trust in that very system. Why else should people have confidence in it? Why should people believe that these are good solutions, and that we are therefore for them, when in such an excuse we complain that the system is that it is because the situation right now is very demanding? If we don't get to that, how else are we going to get to all that we need to do in the future, both to achieve our climate goals and to create more growth and good life in our entire country? Many in the debate that is against this system are really just presenting problems – not to have a power market, not to have more expansion of power, not to have international cooperation or rules of play. And then this acute situation, this very special situation, is used as a breakup bar to try to scrape a system that has served our country very well – which means that we have had Europe's lowest power prices after the deregulation of the 1990s that has been so dissipated here today, which has provided billions of revenues to state and municipalities, which in turn have provided good and better welfare services to people throughout our country, and which makes us among many countries perhaps the best place in the world to make the transition and growth in the demanding time we face. But then we have to start defending the system with a little self-confidence and be proud of how we've rigged the energy policy in this country, because it's good, even though we're now in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1764	State Council Mjøs Persen said that the price signals in the market are important to show shortages of electricity, and that the market is quite well suited to balancing the relationship between production and demand. If that were the case, would we have low electricity prices in winter, because there hasn't been any power shortage last year? No, we exported 17 TWh out of our country. So the problem with Mjøs Persen, the government and the right is that the price signal we are now receiving does not reflect the Norwegian power situation with supply and demand, but reflects the European power situation. This means that the price of Norwegian hydropower for Norwegian customers is set in a market where the situation in Europe determines prices. This is why the Workers' Party's attempt to get the debate over to put sheltered watercourses into pipes has failed. Because increasing power supply in Norway will not reduce the price, as long as we are at the heart of the European power situation. About this, the Workers' Party says nothing. But people out there have noticed it. They are aware that we had a power surplus last year and still have sky-high power prices. That is why many now expect a Labour Party-led government to show a certain willingness to regulate the market – not to leave the market as a master, but to be a server. It often says the Workers' Party in parties – that the market is a miserable master, but a good servant. But they leave the market as the waiter. They reject all proposals to regulate the market, and as long as they do, it will not be a good idea to develop more force in Norway. Interestingly, the Progress Party now reveals that their proposal is exactly the same as that of the government, and that they want some kind of power support – or almisses, as Sylvi Listhaug has called it. It's a little bigger alms, it's supposed to be said, but it's not about intervening, regulating the market and setting a sensible maximum price on electricity to all customers in Norway. There are also people out there who like to notice. But most importantly, to ensure Norway’s most important lasting advantage, collapse and government must have a willingness to regulate the market – not to be priced a stock-based and EU-regulated free trade as today, but to show the will for governance. That is what I think many miss from the Workers' Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1773	We have a price crisis. The power market has served Norway well and will continue to do so in the future. First, I would like to say that I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State would not make an assessment of a proposal on issues in the Stortinget, but I really hope that the government will look closely at the proposal to be able to provide support to companies that now have high electricity costs, via the municipalities. This works under the coronary apnea, and has worked. It is not perfect, but it provides flexibility in municipalities – and in municipalities that do not themselves have large revenues through the power prices we see. So I really hope that the government goes right into it. It's simple, it's possible, and it'll be accurate. At the price itself and at the power market. In this debate, just to say that, ACER is not the problem, it's not the foreign tables themselves – we've had them for many decades – and at least not in the last two years, although they affect the price, and it's not the climate policy that's the problem. There we have to strengthen, we have to do it in Norway, they have to do it in the rest of Europe, and we're even going to do it in cooperation. We're in a very special situation with a very high gas price, which also has heavy political conflicts as a background for it being like this now. We need to look forward, and we need this market. I believe that if we are not part of a larger European market, we need to build even more into Norway to have the power security and energy security that we need. So when Red is up all the time and does not want that exchange, it must mean that you have to be willing to build even more in Norway in order to have the necessary security — something for which Red is definitely not. What we need to do is go on upgrading watercourses. That's where we've changed the tax system to make it easier. We have to move on with floating sea winds. It requires a connection with hybrid cables and exchanges, otherwise you will not get power around it. We have to make even better provision for solar energy. And we need to step up efforts on energy savings, both towards existing buildings and, of course, towards industry and business. It is true that because we are going to achieve the climate targets, and we need more renewable energy in Europe, there will be greater variation in electricity prices in the years to come – and it needs to be managed. But there is no doubt that we have a common interest in continuing the cooperation we have – building more renewable energy, saving more energy, but continuing cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1786	It's not that SV doesn't want to have a power market, but one has to frame the market so that he thinks society and not profit maximisation through power companies and complex systems that people don't understand. For me, this is pretty simple: I have one line into my house, and it's one type of electron. Here, a simple idea must start to think that this is going to affect society. What is happening now, with a market that is completely out of control of the price due to several things, especially because of the gas price and marginal price system, which forces us to pay the price of the last balancing force, with the CO 2 tax, for cheap water power – that system we have to discuss. This is a very good recording of the Energy Communication and Energy Commission. For energy, both social infrastructure and a product to be paid for are very valuable. But when businesses and individuals get in a desperate situation where they can't afford to pay their bills, it's our responsibility – in this house and in cooperation with the countries around us – to find another system. I'm not made to think about this, but I think we're going to analyze it very carefully, and not least get rid of the stock exchange speculation around force, because there's also a little bit of the picture here. When we see the money in the center and in a way let it determine, over what society needs, we're bad out there. We have joined a European liberalised market that is many times larger than the Norwegian market, and I have thought: Yes, okay, we are going to export and get a good price, but is it right that Norway should focus on British customers paying overprice? Where has there been solidarity in this system? We have to put society and human beings in the center, and then we have to build the market system around it. That means we have to hit it in some way that protects society from an inflation and a crisis that can devastate democracy in filths if we don't take control.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1800	History is always exciting, and if it's not history falsification, at least we see something different, the representative Astrup and I. But what's interesting is that the representative Astrup, from the Right, now determines that it's a goal with cheap energy and more power. There are at least new tones from that edge, for the goal of the previous government, as directed by the Right, was the higher price of energy. The Minister for Oil and Energy of the Progress Party, Tord Lien, said to Technische Ukeblad on 30 October 2013 that it was a wish for a higher electricity price. He even said that it was the purpose of the foreignables to drive the price up. So it is the policy of the former government when it comes to this. That's why it's interesting to hear that now the goal is more reasonable force. That's good, we agree on that. We are discussing today the price crisis we are facing. In this connection, Astrup claims that the government had signed off on the request decision of the Stortinget last year. We can discuss its content, but it was a universally designed proposal for action at high power prices. Right-wing indifference was evident in connection with a written question to the then state council Tina Bru from me, dated 17 September last year. Then we had a historically high electricity price on 16 September, with 153 kroner and 35 cents per kWh, and on that basis I asked the council the following questions: ‘What action will the Council of State take to reduce the Norwegian electricity price and avoid a power crisis beyond winter?’ The answer was discouraging, to say it like this. No measures were mentioned at all. There was no indication that the government was preparing a power package for households, as provided by the Workers' Party-Center Party administration. There was nothing left in the drawers in the government offices when we took over. We had to start from scratch. It was referred to the market and that the market would provide competitive prices, and that a group had been set up to look at the housing aid, a work which would otherwise have been completed on 1 February. So it was the Solberg government's legacy and measures against high power prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1812	When you turn to strawmen in the debate, you often have a slightly weak case. I can, first of all, refute these different strawmen who are being led towards Red. First, we're not against force exchange, and we've never been. But we're opposed to draining Norway's power surplus. We're not here to cut the cables and make an energy island, as somebody says. We are not for that, but we are for having national control over both the power prices in Norway and not least our electricity exports. We want political control of the force, which is what was required by the Industrial Action outside Eidsvoll's place here yesterday. The background to this move in the trade unions in industry and also on the employers' side is that they see the problem that very few people here see, namely that we are now awarded a European energy market. This means that the price of Norwegian hydropower for Norwegian customers is largely set by German and English energy policies. This is not sustainable. This can mean a race of employment in the industrial communities around the country – on the island of Hera, in Kristiansand, in Rogaland, in Sauda, in Tyssedal, in Odda, in Mo i Rana, in the Mossjøen and in Trøndelag. We can get a race in the industry if we don't guarantee control over the power prices. There are some relatively reasonable demands that the Industrial Action promotes, and that were supported by Stein Lier-Hansen in the Norwegian Industry and Jørn Eggum in the Joint Confederation. Firstly, it is predictable power prices for industry and agriculture, secondly, a two-price system for households, with a maximum price of basic electricity consumption, and thirdly, a regulation to stop power exports at low filling levels in the water storage plants. This should be a minimum common multiple for this hall. And a government in Norway will have to take a special responsibility for Norwegian employment, Norwegian value creation and Norwegian jobs, because there are few other governments that will take special responsibility. That is what is now expected of the Labour Party and the Central Party in government: standing up for our interests, agreeing to renegotiate the agreements with our partners in Europe – there are sensible people, so we can obviously negotiate with them – and ensure a low, predictable price of the flow. It requires political will to regulate, and it is high time that the Workers' Party soon showed some willingness to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1821	I can remind the representative of Moxnes that the power supply in Norway is actually quite pervasive, there is no release at all in any way. The government that now governs the country has also said no to several foreign tables. I also remind the representative of Moxnes that it was the Workers' Party that stopped the construction of NorthConnect. It had been under construction now, it had not been for the Workers' Party's agreement with what was then the government parties. That story can also be mentioned in this context. What amazes me in this discussion is that the market librarians in the Progress Party then until those degrees have found together with the Communists in Red. They are, of course, promoting two completely identical proposals. The representative Frank Edvard Sve is trying to give the impression that the board's maximum price proposal is not going into the market. It is with respect to report the total error. He could not have read his own proposal. It's completely identical to, but it's 15 cents higher than, what Red has proposed as the maximum price. So I assume that if the Progress Party is promoting a new proposal in February, it also has a dimension of 15 and 30 cents, and not 50 cents, which is now. So that's a little bit of that part of it. Of course, this is about having a critical look at what is now happening, and yes, trust in the system, as the representative Bru says. But then one must also be able to look through the situation that is now, with extreme prices and extremes, which are demanding for people, for business, for volunteering and for society as a whole. We need to find some answers that provide credible assurance that there will be more stability, more predictability and lower prices over time in Norway. Energy and adequate access to renewable energy have been Norway’s good trademark. And it's not, as someone said earlier in the debate, that it's demanding to run industry in Norway. No, Norway is really a very good country to run in. It still has to be. This government will ensure that adequate access to reasonable energy is also an advantage in the future. But then we have to open our eyes – not close them, as Red does – because then we have to build up more power, make sure that we get more power into this Norwegian system, into Norwegian industrial workplaces, and make sure that we get better power flows in the country so that it comes to the industry, and not be hindered by the fact that it is not networked to the industry. When the representative of Moxnes mentions Herøya, I can recall that one of the obstacles to further development in the island is a lack of network, and then a lack of power over time. That means we have to expand more networks and more power.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1834	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1840	I fully agree with the Aasland representative that we need to have more power and more networks, and in the last eight years new production has been made corresponding to 16 TWh. There has never been any more investment in the web, but that is not enough. We have to move on. We need to do significantly more, and that means that we also need to clarify the framework conditions for new power generation, whether there are wind turbines on land, whether there are wind turbines or there are other new power generation. So to the representative Myhrvold, who's in on the story again, and pulls out a lot of misused quote from Tord Lien: Let me remind you that the situation when that quote fell, was that the center party had just introduced subsidies to build new power generation, because the power price was so low. Using that quote into a story story to represent it as what we have now is a result of a crazy policy, I don't think it belongs anywhere. Of course, the current situation is not a result of a wild policy. This is the result of an extraordinary situation that needs to be met with extraordinary measures, and then we must not throw ourselves on hasty proposals, but keep our heads cold and warm and make sure that people get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1847	The representative of Birgit Oline Kjerstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1852	If the market arranged it alone, we could go home again. That's why we have the Biggest, that's why we need politics, and that's why we need to balance this. We're going to have control of greenhouse gas emissions, we're going to supply Norwegian society with electricity at an affordable price, and we're going to take care of Norwegian nature. We have to do some analysis of these paths. Here's a lot to pick up and power production in barley, here's water power, and here's also sea wind, but we have to calculate, analyze and choose the way out of what benefits society the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1857	The representative Bears Moxnes has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1862	It was Red, SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party who voted to stop NorthConnect. The working party stood by its agreement with the civil and environmental parties of the Greens to subject us to Acer and press the break button in the case of NorthConnect. If they had voted in favour of our proposal, we could have stopped the cable forever and ever. Now it's waiting in the department, and a new government can press the yes button on it at any time, if they want it. It is very interesting to note that the Workers' Party rightly points out that luckily it is public ownership of the power, but they say nothing about how the price is formed. It is based on the power situation in Europe, based on energy policy in Germany and England, not on supply and demand for power in Norway. They don't want to intervene there. There are more market liberals than the Advance Party. It must be a cross of thought for a party which, at least historically, has shown a willingness to regulate the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1869	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, has also spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1874	It's always an advantage to have two eyes and two ears in debates. When I hear the representative from the Labour Party, it can't possibly be that one has listened to what the residents have said, and what the business community has said, which is now struggling with extreme costs of power. Nor can one have seen all the thousands standing outside this hall and protested against the government's policy when it comes to power. One can't have listened to what the people said in innumerable statements yesterday and in posts in those protests. And the representatives of the Labour Party have definitely not listened to what the Progress Party and I have said, nor have they seen what we have written in our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1879	I will not take advantage of the time, even if I could be tempted to do so now. I'm just going to stress the last thing that the representative Sve mentioned, that I haven't read the proposals or have not seen what it's like. Yeah, I got it. I've read them carefully, too. It is quite unambiguous, black on white, through the proposal that there is an entirely normal maximum price of 50 cents that the Advance Party is promoting – quite identical to Red, only that Red has even lower price, 35 cents. It's a little important to point it out, because when the market librarians in the Advancement Party and the Communists in Red unite their thoughts so equally, there's reason to be precise from the Greatness's pulpit that that's actually what happened -- there's two drops of water we see in these Document 8 proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1884	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1897	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1909	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3 from Tina Bru on behalf of Right and Left proposal No 4, by Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of the Red Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 5, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Rødt proposal No 6, by Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Financial Committee proposal No 7, from Tina Bru on behalf of Right, Party of Progress and Left There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Red Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in cooperation with the social partners, to evaluate the current wage support system and to propose a new and improved system that can be ready for rapid implementation in the event of any new wave of infection or other crises. As part of the evaluation, it shall be assessed whether the scheme should provide full payoff for wage support even in cases of lower turnover than 100 pst.» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1944	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal for a Law on Compensation of Wage and Wage Aid is amended as follows: Section 2 is replaced by the following: The aid scheme shall apply for the calendar months December 2021 until April 2022. The employer may apply for aid to cover compensation of employees for each month. It is necessary to apply separately for each of the months of support. Paragraph 5 of the first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the undertaking must have a turnover decrease of at least 20 per cent in the months of December 2021 until April 2022, compared to the corresponding month two years earlier, or compared to the average monthly turnover for October and November 2021. [[1]] The entity itself chooses the reference period used to calculate the turnover fall.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e1967	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on compensation of employees § 5 first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: the undertaking must have a minimum turnover of 20 per cent in the months of December 2021 and January 2022, and a minimum of 30 per cent in February 2022, compared to the corresponding month two years earlier, or compared to the average monthly turnover for October and November 2021. [[1]] The entity itself chooses the reference period used to calculate the turnover fall.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2239	It is contested by the first paragraph of Section 5. Red has announced subsidiary aid. Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2255	Alternatively, the fourth paragraph of Section 5 and proposal No. 7, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 5, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: no support is granted for the period during which employees were on leave beyond the period of compulsory employment.’; [[4]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2270	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2275	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2280	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2293	Alternatively, the first and second subparagraphs of Section 6 and Section 7 and the proposals No. 1 and 3, from the right and left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Proposal for a Law on Compensation of Wage and Wage Aid is amended as follows: Paragraph 6 of the first and second subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: The scheme applies to permanent staff employed throughout the month of support in full-time or part-time employment or temporarily employed in fixed-term contracts with an agreed amount of work. [[1]] The scheme also applies to apprentices. The staff member must be registered with an employment rate with effect from 31 December 2021 at the latest for aid in December, January and February. The employee must be registered with the same employment rate throughout the support period. The position must be greater than zero. The company can only receive compensation for the working time for which wages have been paid. [[2]] The employment must start by 31 December 2021 at the latest for aid in December, January and February 2022. ‘... Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Law on wage support § 7 is replaced by the following: § 7 Calculation of aid Aid for December 2021 and January 2022 is calculated as follows: [[1]] This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. The maximum aid is limited up to NOK 40000 per employee per month of support. For apprentices, maximum aid is limited up to NOK 15 000 per employee per month of support. In the event of a lower turnover than 100 per cent, the maximum aid amount is reduced linearly to NOK 4000 at 20 per cent of turnover. Lower trading losses than 20 % do not qualify for aid. b. The amount referred to in point (a) shall be reduced by an estimated rate of employment. The rate of employment is calculated by dividing the gross wages and salaries earned, excluding employers' contributions, by the product of the employee's hourly earnings and by the number of hours per month in a full-time job. The rate of employment may not exceed 100 per cent. c. The maximum aid calculated under this paragraph is limited per employee to 80 per cent of the sum of gross wages and salaries earned during the month of support, less the estimated gross wages and salaries earned, to be covered by reimbursements or subsidies from NAV paid to employers. [[2]] Aid for February 2022 is calculated as follows: This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. The maximum aid is limited up to NOK 35000 per employee. For apprentices, maximum aid is limited up to NOK 15 000 per employee. In the event of a lower turnover than 100 per cent, the maximum aid amount is reduced linearly to NOK 4000 at 30 per cent of turnover. Lower turnover falls than 30 per cent do not qualify for aid. b. points (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph shall apply mutatis mutandis. Total aid to the undertaking calculated after the first and second subparagraphs shall be limited in accordance with the following rules in the order set out in this subparagraph: [[3]] This box can be used to specify the units of the van der Waals constant'a '. If the company’s basis for the employer’s fee, cf. Section 23-2 of the National Social Security Act, imposed on employers for the month of support has fallen from the reference period, reduces the total aid in accordance with regulations laid down by the Ministry. b. The total aid granted to the undertaking is limited to SEK 47 million per month of aid for December 2021 and January 2022. For February 2022, total aid to the enterprise is limited to SEK 40 million. For the group, the limits in the first and second sentences apply to the total aid to the group. c. The aid may not exceed the purchase price in krona. d. The undertaking's total aid from government schemes for compensation of employees may not exceed the undertaking's total gross taxable wages and salaries payable to employers for the month of support. Surplus amounts will be deducted in accordance with provisions laid down by the Ministry. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for the calculation of aid and for what is regarded as gross earnings earned.» [[4]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2352	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, of the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 23 first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2364	The proposal replaces the first paragraph of Section 23 of the Recommendation, which then lapses as a result of this voting. The remainder of Sections 5 and 6, Section 23, second paragraph, as well as Sections 1 to 4 and 8 to 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2376	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2386	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2398	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Helge Orten on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 2, from Helge Orten on behalf of the Right and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 3, by Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Greens proposal No 4, by Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of the Red Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 5, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of the Left and the Greens the proposals No 6 and 7, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Rødt the proposals No 8 and 9, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to exempt the service industry from the recovery requirement for profits for the year as a whole.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2439	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that companies with parent companies registered in a low tax country receive aid only if they can refer to country-by-country reporting and transparency of group structure.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2456	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from Red. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce the necessary requirements to ensure that companies with parent companies in tax havens, non-EEA countries or Cyprus, Ireland or Luxembourg are excluded from receiving aid.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the ceiling for total grants to a group in the period after March 2021 from 100 million. to 80 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2478	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government does not ask for a claim for repayment of grants before any distribution of dividends by the entity, for example to cover the necessary costs to pay taxes on wealth or repayments/interest on loans.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2494	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Red Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the lessors of commercial property to grant reduced rent to enterprises receiving aid under the compensation scheme, with a corresponding percentage to the proportion of fixed costs not covered by the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2509	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to establish an application-based grant scheme for enterprises that are not adequately covered or excluded from the corporate grant scheme.» [[ventilator system]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2524	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Right and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that any claims for repayment are as low as possible in the incentives for conversion and profitable operation. The government should assess, inter alia, whether requirements should take into account any deficits from 2020 and 2021.» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2541	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right, the Advance Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 6a is replaced by the following: The Ministry may provide for the repayment of the grant in full or in part by undertakings receiving grants as a result of circumstances occurring from the grant period until 31 December 2023.» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2629	It is votered over the second paragraph of Section 2 and the first paragraph of Section 6a. The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2644	The rest of I and II are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2654	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2664	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2676	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Henrik Asheim on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party the proposals No 4-18, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Rødt There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 6 to 8, 10 and 12 to 18, from Red. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to either adopt a regulation to immediately extend the maximum benefit period for recipients of daily allowances until further notice, or to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to amend the law.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to either adopt a regulation to immediately extend changes to the daily allowance scheme which halve the minimum income requirement to qualify for daily allowances, until further notice, or to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to amend the law.’; Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to either adopt a regulation to immediately extend the maximum benefit period for recipients of daily allowances and redundancy payments until further notice, or to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to amend the law.’; Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to remove the three waiting days before entitlement to unemployment benefits.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose that those who are being or become unemployed be paid daily allowances on the basis of their original salary, and not on the basis of the daily allowance they have had while on leave.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to propose that the income protection scheme for apprentices be extended until further notice.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government requests that proposals be made for derogations from the activity requirements of qualification programmes for which activity cannot be carried out as a result of the covid-19 pandemic be made to date.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to be made to exempt until now from the activity requirements for the receipt of social assistance where activity cannot be carried out as a result of the covid-19 pandemic.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose that the covid-19-related extension of the period of qualification programmes be extended until further notice.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: «The government is asked to propose that the possibility to work up to 60 pst. of previous working hours without termination of the daily allowance until further notice.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to propose that the minimum daily allowances be reduced until further notice, to 0,75 times the basic amount of income in the last 12 months and to 2,25 times the basic amount of the average income in the last 36 months.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The government is asked to propose that the requirement for a reduction in working time to receive daily allowances be reduced to 40 pst. until further notice.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2759	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 9 and 11, from Red. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to either adopt a regulation to extend immediately changes to the daily allowance scheme to compensate those who qualify for daily allowances for 80 pst. on revenue up to 3 G until further notice, or return to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain as soon as possible with a proposal to amend the law accordingly.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to continue the temporary scheme for self-employed and freelancers who lose income as a result of the coronary eruption with a compensation rate of 80 pst.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asking the government to propose to give part-time students receiving student support, on a day-to-day basis, equal to other employees. This is a temporary arrangement. The change will enter into force immediately and payments will be made as soon as Nav has a technical solution in place.» The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e2788	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to reduce the number of day-care days financed by employers from 16 to 3 days for absences due to the covid-19 pandemic.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asking the government to ensure that free-rangers are entitled to sickness benefits from the death penalty from the fourth day of sick leave due to the covid-19 pandemic.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that self-employed persons are entitled to sickness benefits from the death penalty from the fourth day of sick leave due to the covid-19 pandemic.’ Red and Left have notified support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3135	During the debate, Mr Henrik Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 6 May 1988 No. 22 on compulsory pay during the period of leave, the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following: An employer is obliged to pay the periodic salary and other compensation of work for a period of 5 days [[employee period 1]] II It shall enter into force immediately and shall take effect from 1 January 2022.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3219	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3230	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3280	During the debate, Anna Molberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No. 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows: Paragraphs 22 to 9 are added as follows: § 22-9 Payments in exceptional cases In exceptional cases, the State of employment and welfare may pay a specified amount to the person who, for a specified period of time, fulfils the conditions for a benefit under this Act. Such payment shall be tax-free, non-compulsory and non-retiring. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3327	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left, Left and Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 2, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of Right and Left proposal No 3, from Nikolai Astrup on behalf of the Right proposal No 4, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party the proposals No 5 and 6, by Sofie Marhaug on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 7, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red proposal No 8, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the power-storage system assumes that the threshold is set at 35 øre/kWt for consumption up to 2000 kWt and 70 øre/kWt for consumption between 2000 and 5000 kWt. Furthermore, a tiered State coverage of 100 pst is introduced. compensation for consumption up to 2000 kWt and 50 pst. compensation for prices above 70 øre/kWt for consumption between 2000 and 5000 kWt, for the months of December 2021 and January, February and March of 2022.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3366	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, as an exceptional immediate measure, requests the introduction of a maximum electricity price of 50 øre per kWh excluding VAT from 1 January to 31 March 2022, which shall apply to all electricity customers, from households and secondary dwellings and voluntary and non-profit institutions serving businesses.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal. Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3385	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the Green Party and the Green Group in the European Parliament. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to calculate the average price of electricity on a daily basis, in order to ensure that people receive support for actual consumption.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3400	There is a vote on proposal No. 6th by the Green Party and the Green Group in the European Parliament. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the extended power support system also apply to the power billing for December 2021.’» The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3418	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to make rapid proposals to the Storting for appropriate regulation of the power market in the longer term, in order to counter such very high electricity prices as is now seen.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3433	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the temporary law of 22 December 2021 No 170 on social benefits to households as a result of exceptional electricity costs is amended as follows: Paragraph 5, third paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following: The Energy Regulatory Authority shall calculate the social benefit rate based on the following formula: 0,85 x [[removal basis — threshold]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3452	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up an application-based municipal compensation scheme to assist small businesses and voluntary teams and organisations currently struggling with high electricity prices. The scheme shall be demarcated to municipalities in the price regions of South Norway and the support to the enterprises must be limited to enterprises where electricity costs represent a high proportion measured against their turnover. The grant must be in line with the State aid rules. Municipalities with significant revenues from ownership of power companies or power generation are not to be included in the scheme, but these municipalities are encouraged to create similar schemes within their own framework. The grant funds are set aside as discretionary funds distributed through the manager of the government. The government is asked to propose an appropriate framework for the scheme, for example, 2 billion. krones. Non-disbursement funds shall be repaid to the State.’;» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3469	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right, Socialist Left, Left and Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: «In the first half of 2022, the government asks the government to assess how aid at high electricity prices can be targeted at low income households based on electricity consumption and household income data.» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3539	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3550	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3577	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Frank Sve on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 6 and 7, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red proposal No 8, by Rauand Ismail on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from Red. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a maximum electricity price of 35 øre/kWt, to be imposed on the turnover of power from Norwegian power producers to customers in Norway [[households, industry, etc.]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to return to Stortinget with a case that combines the maximum price of electricity with a two-price system for households through either the VAT or the electricity charge, where the maximum price applies to consumption up to a certain limit, while the price of luxury consumption is higher.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3617	There is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to return to Stortinget by the autumn of 2022 at the latest with proposals for a long-term and redistributive model to deal with high electricity prices. The proposal must contain concrete and offensive efforts to improve energy efficiency and local energy production aimed at households and businesses. It is assumed that the government of a redistributive model also assesses a system in which its increased income from electricity sales is re-distributed to Norwegian residents.» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3634	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government not to introduce a maximum price of electricity for households and businesses. The investigation must consider, inter alia, the effect on the price of households over time, the distribution effects, incentives for energy efficiency improvement and consumption constraints.» The Progress Party and Red have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3651	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests a maximum electricity price of SEK 0,50 per year. kW excluding VAT This applies to all, both households and business.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a case for the Storting with proposals for the necessary measures to ensure Norwegian consumers and businesses stable supply of electricity at prices that have been common in Norway, i.e. far lower than those that have been common in many other European countries.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3676	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to decide to introduce a two-price system setting a lower electricity price and to apply lower consumption charges up to a certain level and normal prices above that level. It is necessary to look at the distribution effects and the impact on energy efficiency.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3691	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to follow up and strengthen energy efficiency improvement requirements for industrial buildings in line with the objectives adopted in the Stortinget to energy-efficient construction by up to 10 TW.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3718	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3737	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-21.ana.ud4e3790	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
