ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e72	The President will propose that the public gallery of infectious diseases be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Ragnhild Male Hartviksen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. An application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative, Siv Mossleth, is submitted from 11 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Hans Gunnar Holand, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e99	Hans Gunnar Holand is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e110	The representative, Mr Kapur, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e115	On behalf of the representatives of Helge André Njåstad, André N. Skjelstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal on amendments to the People's Rights Act for payments in exceptional cases. Then we hope that the relevant committee will be able to deal with the matter quickly when they get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e120	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e125	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Marius Arion Nilsen and to sign a maximum price for electricity for Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e130	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e136	On behalf of myself and Sofie Marhaug, I would like to propose introducing both the maximum price and the two-price system for electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e141	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e159	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e166	The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation proposes to increase the allocation of housing aid in 2022 in order to remedy the situation of high electricity prices for people with low incomes. The proposal involves the continuation of the additional payment from December 2021 and the extension of the housing aid scheme so that about 50 000 new beneficiaries can enter the scheme temporarily. The amendments shall apply to housing aid payments for the period January to March 2022. The government proposes to strengthen the framework grant to municipalities by 300 million. kr to cover increased payment of social assistance due to high electricity prices. The Committee agrees to increase housing aid and points out that Norwegian electricity prices have been exceptionally high by 2021. Until winter, prices have been increasing and are now very high and have been over time. It is expected that the power price will stay at a high level over winter. However, developments are uncertain and depend on the weather conditions and power situation in the countries around us. The consumption of electricity is highest in winter, and an overall committee sees that the situation can become stressful, especially for many disadvantaged households. I would also like to refer to the supervisor for the treatment of matters of financial welfare under the pandemic, which has been decided to continue until 30 June 2022. Among other things, the supervisor makes it clear that: that municipalities should be deterred from imposing conditions on the disposal of housing, car or other assets in order to obtain social assistance, as the need is likely to be short-term. High electricity prices are socially unfair and increase the differences between people. We usually have a very efficient power system in Norway, but it has no social distribution profile. That's the political task, and it takes the government for once again. The guarantee scheme provided by the government in December, and for which a total increase voted, is that when the market price on average in force exceeds 70 øre per kilowatt hour for a month, the government will compensate part of the bill. This level of compensation is now adjusted from the government – from 55 pst. to 80 pst. The portion paid by the country is deducted directly from the bill of the network company or from electricity suppliers. So people don't have to do anything to get support. Electricity is a common good that everyone in a dark and cold country on which Norway depends. The goal of the government is to reduce differences and make everyday life easier for ordinary people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e181	There is no doubt that the large outflows in the electricity price in the last few months have been a burden on very many people, including individuals, families and households. It has therefore been important for the community to set up, and in particular for the weakest groups. We know that a lot of them are struggling. Many of the groups that are struggling the most are those who already have a weak economy. This case applies initially to persons receiving housing support. The Municipal Committee has recently had three such cases, and I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation. It is quick to deal with such matters, and in this matter I would like to thank both the committee chairman and, not least, the case rapporteur for good organisation. I would also like to send an extra thank you to the Council of State to respond quickly to our enquiries. It means a lot in a matter to be dealt with quickly. Although this case is about housing support, other groups are also struggling in our society. That is why we in the Right, together with the Advance Party and Red – I know that we are going to receive support from the Left at least – have proposed to pay an extra NOK 1000 to all those who are available, permitted or have received redundancy money at the end of December 2021, at the next payment. There's no doubt that this is a group that had it pretty tough, and has it pretty tough, especially because of the coronary crisis. They experience great uncertainty. I think it is a pity that we are not supported by this proposal. In particular, we had put our trust in SV in this case, which could help throw this majority in the favor of those who need this money. I must also point out that in the situation that we have been in, unfortunately the government has been behind and late on the track several times. I wish the government had worked on these things already when the government parties were negotiating with SV. This is not an unknown issue, and I hope that you will now follow closely the situation further. Earlier today, I have been promoting a legislative amendment on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. It is also necessary in order to obtain this kind of payments contained in our proposal, proposal No. 1, in this case. In December, the Committee was informed that a major power crisis package would be in place. At the time, we were concerned that the residents, who were going to get money in December, would not be helped to pay their bills, which expired then. We actually got that right. But we are happy now that the government will come back with housing support for the next three months, and we support that proposal. We hope that the government will follow closely the situation in the future. Finally, I should like to address proposal No. 1, of which the right is a part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e196	The representative Mudasar Kapur has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e201	The welfare society of Norway has safety nets to protect us when we need them. The housing aid scheme is such a safety net. The high power prices have made very high costs of heating the dwelling. This particularly affects people with low incomes. Today, we are continuing the extra payment from December, plus extending the housing support scheme so that about 50,000 more people are temporarily entering the scheme. It is simply about making even tighter masks in the safety net we decided before Christmas. 300 million. kr to the municipalities of increased social assistance, which we adopt today, will provide many with a better everyday life during this extraordinary period. In addition, the government came this weekend with a promise of increased power support. 80 pst. instead of 55 pst. the bill for the first three months of the year is covered when the kilowatt price exceeds 70 cents. SV has promised to support the proposal, so this will be another powerful measure Velferds-Norway can give us as citizens. An important reason why Norway became a welfare society is national control of our energy policy – hydropower, concession laws or that we made demands in the beginning of the oil age, as we saw in the season one of the NRK's Lyckeland series. How did we get into this situation with so sky-high power prices, and how can we avoid it again? The Centre Party will ensure the control of Norwegian sovereign over all decisions relevant to energy security in Norway and for the further development of Norwegian power and energy mix. Public ownership must be firm. Decisions on possible new inter-national relations with the rest of the world still need to be taken by the Norwegian authorities. The Hurdals platform states that new inter-national links with Norway should not be established during this four-year period. The fourth year was extraordinary. Low filling rates in the powerhouses combined with European conditions affecting the Norwegian electricity price have given us unsustainable electricity prices. The centre party believes that we should look at the action space in the concessions for inter-territorial connections, especially the sea cables. How does Norwegian power export affect Norwegian security of supply and Norwegian electricity prices? Reasonable renewable energy has been a good asset for people and businesses in Norway for a long time. You call Norway a reasonable stream is a welfare asset and a necessity for people. For business and industry, reasonable electricity is a competitive advantage. This is going to keep the Center Party. I am pleased that today we are deciding to increase housing support and social assistance funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e218	After listening to the post from the previous speaker from the Center Party, it is tempting to say that they should perhaps reconsider who they are going to cooperate with, if they want a low power price to be a good thing for the population. Then at least one should look at the proposals that lie in the Storting, and perhaps vote for what one is for, and against what one is against. My party has put forward good proposals that would have come Norwegian inhabitants, common people, for the benefit of the past few months. We started by proposing to remove the electricity charge, remove the VAT and have a better power support system, and most recently today, the representative Sve has proposed to set a maximum price. There are good suggestions, but unfortunately we have seen that in this Chamber it is often that when the Progress Party proposes something, it is downhearted, but then suggests an adjustment, or an improvement, of its own proposals afterwards. We saw it last week, when we were not allowed to vote on our proposal, but only a few days passed before the government adjusted its proposal. It is a little ironic to read this setting, which refers to a government proposal and an agreement with SV that has already expired. It is no longer the current policy of the plural parties, because they need to adjust their own power pack after they have been pressed. It shows how far back one is, and how little forward one has been in this situation. When it comes to this matter, of course, we support strengthening the support for the bill that came this month, which was applicable to the stream in December. It should just be missing that one doesn't do it, of course, but we think it's very close enough. We should take the measures proposed by the Party for Progress, both with reduced fees, with additional reimbursement and with a maximum price. We should do more, and I think that's what most people see, and hopefully more parties will come to us and see it, too. In this case, as Mr Kapur said, the Right, Left, Red and Advance Party propose to give 1000 kroner to some groups that we know are particularly difficult, those who are unemployed, those who are on leave, and those who are on redundancy. It's a proposal that will be an important handshake, and when the parts that I referred to are behind, that means that one needs only one more game to have multiples. Then there is a great responsibility on SV, as it is on the tip, which can vote for that proposal and give a handshake, or they can vote against and show with all clarity that they are a support wheel for the government – and do not support what they are for, and vote against what they are against. So I'm very excited about the next article from SV, if they want to form multiples for that proposal, which will give a thousand more copies to the groups that I referred to. I then take up the proposal from the Progress Party and the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e231	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e236	The word ‘crisis’ is something we have used a lot from this pulpit in the autumn and in winter, and perhaps it has also been used more than necessary. It is not a crisis for everyone if the electricity bill is doubled one winter, or if we have to sit in the home office for another period. But just as the pandemic has forced us to learn digital solutions, record-breaking power bills have forced us to save on power. We haven't been too used to it in this country, and I guess we could say it was time for both. It is demanding, and it creates difficulties for many; there is no doubt about it. Such a high power bill that awaits us this and probably also in the next few months will present challenges for many. For some, this is not just challenging; it is actually a crisis. There are groups that are already living at least, and any increase in the bill base is already overloading. Clear support schemes are therefore still needed. In the scheme we are dealing with today, it is precisely those with low income and high housing costs, who are also entitled to housing support, who get an extended and extended scheme. The fact that we have expanded the target population by an estimated 50,000 households is an extension SV is happy to have contributed to it. In the extension of this, we look forward to the report from the sample who is working to look at the housing support, as there are, in SV's opinion, too many people who fall outside the very important scheme. When we are going to put in place new schemes, there are also some weaknesses in the systems we already have. In this case, we have had some challenges when the municipalities send out information that the power support is curtailed against other social welfare schemes, and it is also important this time to stress that it does not have to happen – unless Nav already covers the electricity bill. We now see a challenge facing those who receive a day’s allowance or a job redundancy allowance. They deliver report cards every 14 days, which is supposed to capture the variation in income. But twice a year, three payments fall within the same calendar month, and with that, the housing support fails and now also the power support. A possible second challenge for the payment of these benefits should probably be addressed, as it also provides for unforeseeability in the own economy, especially for those with a marginal economy to prioritize and redispatch. Now in the first place, it is a point that the housing support committee also looks at this and sees the challenges that many face when the systems are not well run together. Now, the situation we're in, we have to make sure we don't get in multiple times. That's why we need a new power policy. What we see now is the market forces that are free to bear one goal for profit and without responsibility for the consumer or the business we have around the country. That's why we need to get control of our power. SV therefore proposes a state-owned electricity company that can purchase power and sell with predictable conditions to its inhabitants and to the business community. The forthcoming Energy Communication makes it particularly important to develop policies in this area. We must take political responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e251	Red is very concerned about the private economy of people across our country who get one record high electricity bill after another. «The power prices are crushing the Norwegian working class», said the infant mother Anita Bjørnvig Knutsen at the «Debate» in December. Few have said it better than her. I'm recording that the government has now come on the track with an enhanced power pack. That's better, but not good enough. Red suggested raising this to 90 pst. already in December. In addition, the 70 ear threshold per kilowatt hour is still an abnormally high price. Before Christmas, Red proposed in a representative proposal that the Stortinget set up a new allocation post with some of the record high incomes earned by the government due to increased electricity prices, just to pay back to its 2.5 million households. They would have received 4,400 kroner from this post as soon as possible with our proposal, but it was voted down. Let me also remind you that no later than today, Red has made a proposal for a representative to introduce a maximum price on electricity. Red believes that all measures that can be taken quickly, including exceptional payments of housing aid, are necessary. But a major weakness with this proposal from the Big Government, as with the previous proposals, is that the beneficiaries are at risk of having this curtailed against other benefits. In the past, with the support of several batches, the Red Party, SV and the Advance Party have proposed that these performances should be additional to the other performances and not curtailed. Red believes it is quite obvious that the proposed additional payments of housing aid should not be deducted. Today's housing aid scheme clearly needs permanent reinforcement. It is good that 50,000 more are temporarily included in the proposed extraordinary payments that we are going to adopt here today, but that is not enough. The government estimates that with the temporary extension it will affect between 130 000 and 140 000 recipients, but let me remind you that in 2011 there were 155 000 households that received housing support. It shows that the scheme needs to be strengthened and it needs to be extended to several. That is why, in proposal No, Red is proposing today. 3, that the Government should return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals for a temporary increase in the income limit in order to enable more people to apply for housing aid in the period from 1 January to 31 March 2022. In view of the exceptional situation, we must ensure that more people receive housing support than we do today. There are also many groups out there that, for various reasons, do not qualify to apply for housing support, and Red is particularly concerned with all of them on disability benefits, on redundancy benefits and similar social benefits that have unmanageable housing and electricity costs but do not have the opportunity to apply. The NRK could previously tell about Frøy Rosvoll-City, who did not receive housing because she was 8 kroner too rich. This results in unfortunate results, and that is why I refer you to proposal No. 2, from the Red Party and the Advance Party, which ensure that all, including those on disability benefits and redundancy benefits, are given the opportunity to apply for housing aid. I take up the proposal from the Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e268	The representative of Tobias Drevland Lund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e274	I hope that the way in which we have dealt with matters expeditiously before Christmas and now just in the new year gives some certainty and certainty that the authorities can act quickly on the circumstances require it. The size is largely combined when we re-adopt appropriations that are very important to many people. We can think a lot about the size and scope of the proposal, but nevertheless a joint committee is behind the main lines of the proposal – and that is reassuring and good. To extend these additional payments to housing beneficiaries we have to say is both correct and necessary. This Decision also extends the housing aid scheme to a further 50000 beneficiaries, and that is good. With the current prices we see now, it is not only households with poor advice that is holding their breath when the invoice for the last month's power consumption is to be inspected. Also, those who normally handle the electricity bills nicely experience that the cost is making a big contribution to the household, and we now see figures that set the price record by price record. The underlying reasons why prices are the way they are provide a much tougher debate environment than the debate on what can be done to pay the bills. That, I believe, is a strength in this decision. We can disagree with each other about why the prices are as they are, and about any solutions to that. At the same time, we can agree that we need to help people who are struggling and know about the economy. Many suggest that it is not the last time the Storting has to adopt appropriations to help people through times of high electricity prices. In Norway, we have been lucky for many years. For some time, electricity has been almost free to compare prices with other Europeans. It also comes from the fact that we have been self-sufficient in renewable energy, clean energy, unlike many countries around us, which have extensive use of fossil energy sources. In the future, those who offer clean energy will become more and more popular and important, but it will also do something about prices. Renewable energy is currently scarce in Europe. Meeting to deal with urgent decisions every year when the cold sets in, is not something we can do in the length. When, in the future, we may have to pay more for something that has been free at times, there are several steps that need to be taken — both in the private economy and in political priorities. How we meet the challenges of the coming years is up to us all to reflect on – politicians as consumers. I am pleased that we were able to deal with the matter in a short time, so that even more people will be helped to handle the high bills in the first three months of 2022. I want to signal at the same time that the Left is going to stand behind proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and Red, to pay an extra 1000 kroner to all those who were free, entitled or received a clearance payment at the end of December 2021, at the next payment. This will also make an important contribution to managing an economically demanding everyday life. I would also like to mention that in an incubation, the only party was not the Left, with a joint comment that goes on curtailment, in the committee's work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e289	Just before Christmas, Stortinget adopted several measures to remedy the consequences of the high electricity prices. An additional payment was granted in December to residents across the country, and a power support scheme for households over the network lease was adopted. In the treatment of the Electricity Stowage Act, an intention was also established to extend the housing aid scheme temporarily. It has already been followed up in practice by amending the housing aid rules for December, January and February. In the proposal under consideration today, we are proposing budgetary changes in line with this. Furthermore, as previously notified, we propose additional payments to the housing beneficiaries in January, February and March. These payments continue the facility from the extra payment in December and provide significant relief for many of the most disadvantaged households. It is easy and effective to use the housing support scheme to pay funds to disadvantaged households, but challenges are not entirely unchallenged. A circumstance that has received a lot of attention in the last few days is that housing beneficiaries who have all or part of the income from redundancy payments or daily allowances may lose their housing support two months of the year. This is because there will be three 14-day pay-outs or daily pay-outs in the same calendar month for two months of the year, in which case the income paid in that month may be so high that the housing allowance is absent. Normally this evens out over the year, but when there is an extra payment attached to the housing allowance, it turns out unlucky. This cannot be changed in the short term, but when we now propose extra payments every month over winter, we counter the problem. There will be a total of five extra payments from November to March, and no one will lose more than one of them because of three AAP payments in the same month. It is regrettable that some people are affected by this, but it is still right to pay out funds through the housing support scheme. We're not reaching out to everyone who needs help, but we're reaching out to a lot of people. The Government Parties and SV have expressed an agreement to extend the housing aid temporarily. The government's proposal follows up this consensus and involves lower margins and significantly higher income limits. The disposable income limits are increased by between NOK 30000 and NOK 50000. For families there may be more than NOK 100000 per year. Up to 50,000 new households can thus have access to both housing support and the proposed extra payments this winter. There may be solitude in minimum benefits or other household incomes that are slightly higher than those normally supported by housing. In the proposition, I have underlined that these estimates are uncertain. One important reason is that the number of new recipients depends on people actually applying. The household bank is now working intensively with municipalities to disseminate information to potential applicants. It works, and the municipalities are now in the middle of a hectic race to prepare applications for December before the benefit is due on 20 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e303	In December we dealt with a matter of housing support, and in the course of the treatment there were several signals from the government that there would be a major power crisis package. The contents of the package were not brought to the attention of the Committee until after the case was submitted. A press conference on the power package was held one day after the release. We were afraid in dealing with the matter that the government's power package would not address the challenges the housing beneficiaries would face in connection with the payment of the electricity bill due in December. The background to the concern was the halving of the additional housing aid from November to December. We got quite right. I would like to hear what the municipal minister now thinks in retrospect that the housing beneficiaries remained on the platform as one of the loser groups in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e312	I do not agree with the presentation of what happened. Now you compare it with the payment that was in November. It was a higher payment that month for what had taken place beyond the harvest. So the government said it would go over to monthly payments of housing support. Then there was a slightly lower amount of each month, but in sum, housing aid was notified for December, January, February and March – a total of NOK 6000, plus a surcharge for several members of the household. So I don't agree with the presentation that you were left on the platform and were losing. On the contrary, there is a strong commitment to housing support to reach some of the most difficult. We've been following up that month for month from December and we're going to do it until March.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e317	I am not surprised that the Council of State disagrees with the residents who remained and got half the support from November to December, otherwise the government might have done something for them. That's not exactly the most surprising argument I've heard here today. The fact of the matter is that when these citizens were to pay their bill in December, they received NOK 1500 in housing aid instead of almost NOK 3000, as several of us in the opposition suggested. In addition, we also know that November was not part of the major crisis package, so that for the payment to be made in December, there was no help to get from the state. We now know that the government has gradually been dragged after its legs in several other cases. Could the Council of State say that changes in this level of housing support may occur in the event of changes in the electricity market in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e326	First of all, the description of housing support, that is to say it was left on the platform and half of the housing support: the housing support payment has gone as usual month by month, and additional housing support has been provided due to high electricity prices. It was done in November, with a larger one-off payment then, and then you changed to payment month by month. What was perhaps a little bit more unclear was what the Right thought about it, if you had considered a larger one-off payment in December and then finished the matter. At least it didn't come out of the debate, as far as I remember, that a few monthly payments had been planned, as the majority then went for, but it might have been the intention. As far as progress is concerned, it is clear that it is being followed very closely. Now we have put in place a policy for January, February and March, but it is clear that I expect everyone in the political environment, and including definitely the government, to follow the situation on the electricity market closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e335	The council said something about groups such as municipalities and the Husbank are trying to follow up as best they can. But I think in that picture – with disability, youth disability, minimum pensioners, low pensions, many who go on a daily allowance, and who experience all these other things that are now increasing around them: the interest rate that goes up, the property tax that goes up in the municipalities, tolls that are being introduced, the food prices that go up and now the power prices – are many given to others. They not only have a weak economy, they also receive assistance. That means that many are abandoned to their guardians or to those who are professional forgeters, and who have dozens of people they're going to help in everyday life. There are also many older people who are not digital — the minimum pensioners who are alone. How does the Council of State think to follow up these challenges for those who are struggling and who will be struggling to get applied for housing support at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e340	There are important questions that are asked here, because a little bit of the point now is that this actually reaches out. It's a rights-based scheme, but it means you're actually applying. You can apply for this in two channels, one digitally through the House Bank, and then it's via the individual municipality. It is important now – and it is working on bombing – to get as good information as possible. We probably have to assume that there's a part that could have been entitled to housing support, which has not been applied for, and that we'll see that the number is increasing as this becomes more known. But it's clear that this is urgent, so it's definitely in everyone's interest that we get out as best we can. The house bank is working a lot on it, even against the municipalities. The municipalities, which have more direct interfaces with users — including physically, not necessarily just digitally — are good at this work, so that all those entitled to housing support are captured. That's important, so we share that intention completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e345	The theme today is the recipients of housing support, so it is natural once again to focus on the selection that works with that particular scheme, and how it can be even better organised. There's a lot of people who are excited about what they come up with. A report by Menon Economics on the mission of the Housing Alliance points out in particular that both the income limit and the ceiling for housing costs are too low, and there are many outsiders. In addition, they say something about the disadvantages being treated differently, and the housing support also makes working for some less favourable. So here's a lot to deal with. But as I mentioned in my post, this is unfortunate with the reporting card system in Nav, as someone then loses the support – which was also the subject of their post – when it falls on three payments within a calendar month. It is evening out in total, but it may nevertheless be challenging for the predictability of the individual economy. Is there anything the Council of State can bring into the sample to ensure that they also look at this device in the short term for those who are being hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e352	This is also an important question, because it's clear that when we make rules and rights for people, we want it to actually come up. It is very unfortunate that for a few months with three payments it will have the effect that you will lose the right to housing support. I've realized that this is a problem, it's not new. I've gone after this to really see if there's anything we can do, I don't have any quick answers. But there's now a new round to really look at this. It can be about technical solutions, it is the systems that make this not quite a hundred percent, and it can be about the legislation. Finally, it is precisely this code that the selection looks at, so there may be suggestions from the sample that can help to reduce or remove this problem. We're going to contribute to this being made aware of in the sample work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e358	I would also like to drill a little bit into what the Council of State had in mind, and which several before me have been involved, namely this with three payments for three mandates in November and also this month, which means that you will get too much income to receive housing support. The leader of the AAP action, Elisabeth Thoresen, despairs and says to the NRK that she is receiving many requests from the desperate people who have either lost or are going to lose their housing support in December or February. She tells about adults who have to go home to their parents because they don't have the money to warm up their homes. My question to the Council of State is: why does the Council of State and the Government not now, when it is known that there is a problem, ensure that beneficiaries of disability benefits and redundancy payments, persons with low income and high housing costs will have the opportunity to apply for housing support?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e365	I want the housing support to reach everyone who needs it, and who has a right to it. Let's be clear. It's the systems related to the payment of housing support in combination with the Nav systems that make us in this situation. These are issues that have been over there for some time, and they are reinforced in the current situation. At the same time, increasing income limits helps to reduce the problem again. If I could have solved this by just adopting it, just deciding it, I would have done it. But we are now going, as I mentioned, another round with the House Bank to really empty out all possibilities, both in terms of technology and in terms of legislation, to see if there is anything we can do about it. We have a common intention of doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e370	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e377	I heard that the representative Njåstad began his intervention in criticising my own party trap, and he said that the Progress Party had made several good proposals «the later months». I think that was a concept he chose with care – ‘the later months’ – because we have to look at what was done when the Progress Party had the oil and energy minister and the finance minister, which the Progress Party had throughout its reign. At that time, the increase in electricity charges was made to amend the Norwegian law in order to build a private export cable, to sign a declaration that Norway should not restrict the export of electricity even in times where electricity is scarce and the price is high, and sovereignty over Norwegian energy policy was abandoned. This year Norway has really got to feel how it is to import high European electricity prices. This creates enormous problems for very many. Families all over the country are struggling with the bill. Small and large enterprises are hit. If we do not gradually get back more normal Norwegian electricity prices, our powerful industry will have major problems. Those who are hit hardest here and now are those of us who have the worst advice. In order to help those who struggle the most, the government, with the support of SV, proposes to increase the appropriations for housing aid in 2022. The proposal involves the continuation of additional payments from December as well as the extension of the housing support scheme, so that about 50 000 more households can receive housing support. The government also proposes to strengthen the framework grant to municipalities by 300 million. kr to cover increased payment of social assistance due to high electricity prices. Norway is cold and dark in winter. Thanks to our amazing footfalls and our common own controllable hydropower, we have been able to use electricity to warm up our houses. Therefore, few countries rely on electricity to ensure heat, and there are obviously few countries in Europe and the world that are as cold in winter as Norway. Then it hits our whole community when the power prices are as high as they are now. Power prices have to go down. In the Hurdal platform, the government announced several measures. Most importantly, the government won't build a single new foreign table as long as we rule. We will look at concrete measures that can help ensure that Norwegian renewable energy remains a competitive advantage. At the same time, we will set up an Energy Commission to identify energy needs and propose increased energy production with the aim of maintaining surplus power generation in Norway. A much greater awareness of the importance of ensuring national control of the use of electricity is needed. That the Progress Party last week regretted what they themselves had been responsible for was a start.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e390	I'm sorry to take up time in another committee's debate. When I do that, it's because the current crisis in the autumn and the payments that have come over the housing support have revealed huge errors and deficiencies in housing support – especially with regard to the groups I work a lot with in the labour and social committee, namely those who go on different social benefits in the Nav system. The NRK brought before Christmas the story of Frøy Rosvoll-City, which is 8 kroner too rich to be able to apply for housing support. So she goes to the lowest rate of disability. Some will always be $8 for rich, no matter where you set the income limit for housing support. In Norway, however, it has been found in the remarkable situation that the income limit for housing aid in large cities is exactly DKK 8 lower than the lowest rate of disability benefit, so that everyone who goes at the lowest rate of disability benefit in a normal situation would be exactly DKK 8 for rich in the month, or DKK 96 for rich in the year, to apply once for housing and electricity support. Now the government, and I am very pleased, has seized this together with SV and increased the number of people who can apply for housing support by about 50,000. The weaknesses now apparent in the housing aid scheme point to the need to make permanent changes to the housing aid scheme, which properly harmonise it with the lowest rates of disability benefit. I would like to remind you that giving someone the right to apply for housing does not mean that they should have housing support. It simply means that they have the opportunity to prove that they have so low incomes and so high expenditure that they may need public support to live. In the extension of this issue, we have also discovered another problem, namely the lack of harmonisation between Nav's second weekly benefits, such as day-to-day benefits and redundancy payments, and housing support, which is calculated on a monthly basis. Then we've ended up in the absurd situation that there's the number of mandates in the month that determine whether you get above or below the income limit for housing support. Now Monday has never been a favorite day for any of us, but for these Mondays go very much beyond their ability to get support and help in a difficult situation. The council says he would like to deal with these problems, but that it is difficult to do in the short term. Well, there's a simple thing that can be done in the short term, and that's raising the income limit to apply for housing even more. I am just referring to the proposals that Red is making today, including: together with the Progress Party, to ensure that all persons on disability, redundancy and the like are at least able to apply for housing aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e405	I would also like to thank you for the rapid treatment we managed to implement in the committee. The Committee, as a whole, also repeats in today's setting what we did the previous time, that the local authority's counsellor, when it comes to being detained to impose conditions on the disposal of the dwelling, car or other property, shall remain in force until June. I'm glad. I am also pleased that the Council of State clearly says that he will look closely at the problem raised when it relates to the payment of redundancy payments these three Mondays of the month. Let me remind you that this is not a new issue. The right-wing party government was challenged at the same time, without much being done about it. I'm glad that the Gram Council is forward in the cause. Then I'm a little tired that the Right and Advance Party are trying to represent the government as being behind. When we pursue politics, we must look at the soundness of politics. Today, we see a touching concern from the Right Party and the Progress Party when it's about the unemployed and the outlawed, but if we look at the state budget for 2022, it's like that right now is worth 250 million. kr with the one hand, and then they went in for $2.6. kr less than the government of the same group when we deal with the state budget for 2022 – among others. in the form that AAP recipients would fall out of the social assistance scheme if we were to listen to the Right and the Progress Party, cut off the amount of the unemployment benefit, cut off the holiday allowance for the unemployed, cut off the labour market. These measures are coherent, so what we see here today is a Right that is busy by the welfare state in times of crisis, but when it applies throughout the year, it's another pipe. This is classic: one gives a little bit with one hand and takes roughly with the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e416	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Case No. 2 and 3 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e447	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e454	There are important proposals that are taken up here by Red. What is related is that the proposals were largely drawn from NOU 2021: 9, the Norwegian model and the working life of the future, which had a deadline for consultation on 1 November last year. What is now happening in the ministry is that the ministry is going through the hearings. Therefore, a unanimous committee, with the exception of Red, agrees that an overall review by the Ministry should be awaited before entering into the specific cases. That's the short version of how this case stands. There is a common recognition in the Committee that this is a subject on which one has to go thoroughly into. This is why the sample – led by Jan Fougner, who presented the NOU 2021:9 – has gone into it thoroughly. The committee has also been thoroughly involved in one of the proposals that Red promotes, namely that of Section 1-8 of the Environmental Protection Act, to define the concept of employees and employers. Not least, it has become important lately, when we see that businesses that used to have their own employees are now keeping to employees from other companies, but where the original company has in practice the right to control those workers, and thus tries to avoid the obligations of the governing right that one has in practice. It is one of the proposals that Red addresses but that have been carefully assessed in the sample – a question that is very demanding to solve, and it underlines the further need to see this in context. Otherwise, on behalf of the Centre Party, I would like to say that this is a reference to the Norwegian model. In the case of the Norwegian model, I would draw attention to what is at the heart of it. The core of the Norwegian model was established at the crisis settlement in 1935, when the Bond Party and the Workers' Party agreed that the Stortinget would set a framework for market forces, and the Stortinget would be able to control the content of private property rights. This is what is now being put under pressure in a growing number of areas through the EEA Agreement, where the Stortinge is deprived of the opportunity to steer the big lines of policy – that is, to steer the lines so that the Norwegian people get security, because that is what is at the heart of the Norwegian model: the ability of the elected representatives to control market forces and control the content of private property rights. This theme goes further into employment in the labour market, and it is the opinion of the Centre Party that we need to point out a very clear course for Norway to stick with the labour force. In doing so, we need to strengthen the pay and working conditions of the many practical professions in which we currently depend on guest workers. We need to strengthen our education system so that interested young people can educate themselves, for example, painters, masons, butchers and health professionals, and these professions must be given an attractive status. We also have to have a well-organized working life, which is a prerequisite for a safe family life. The central party's assessment is that we should phase out the crew companies over time and replace them with temporary employment agencies that can also provide employment services. But I would like to end by stressing that what we are going to do is to meet the needs of workers at all times in such a way that the employer and others can do the work they need in Norway. It is a demanding job, and therefore the setting is as it is now available.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e469	My grandmother lived as a child in the Upper Laundry gang here in the Oslo Centre, around the turn down towards Akerselva by the medical guard, as most people may know where is. There came the waitress and delivered the laundry to the household they worked for. I can only imagine how the washing was done, and how hard the work was for a newly-baked mother with her baby on her arm. In the church book of the Fatherland Church, my great - grandfather is listed as a layman. Fortunately, it is not today's working life, thanks to the efforts of the trade union movement, followed up by the Labour Party governments in the post-war period with a sensible regulation that builds up under permanent employment and extensive use of party cooperation. Here in the country we have lived with temporary employment agencies since 1965, when Manpower established itself in Norway. From 1971, it was prohibited to carry out activities aimed at placing their own employees at the disposal of a contracting entity, other than in office and shop churches, which have been legally hired for more than 50 years. At that time the ban was motivated by the lack of skilled labour when the expansion of the oil industry began. Renting companies recruited labour from existing enterprises. They could offer employees better paid, and the companies were forced to hire labour in order to carry out the tasks, at a higher price. Of course, the dissatisfaction was great among employees. At some yards there were even actions to ensure that permanent employees would achieve the same pay terms as they hired. Today it's the opposite. Rented workers, to a large extent from Eastern Europe, are exploited and underpaid, and even with the EU Non-discrimination Directive, where an employer and the contracting entity cannot discriminate between pay conditions and benefits between employees and tenants, nevertheless make extensive use of rental undesirable effects. It is obvious to me that in the EU enlargement that gave Norway access to an even larger labour market, it should have been followed up by greater responsibilities and obligations for companies and businesses using rentals. There has been a significant increase in the use of temporary agency rentals in the last ten years, and although the use has decreased somewhat on the basis of the pandemic, there is no doubt that the legislation needs to be tightened up and ensure that enterprises take their employer seriously again through fixed-term employment rather than renting. The safe, serious and organised working life in Norway is challenged by unprofessional actors in search of quick profit, at the expense of workers. It contributes to increasing disparities, weakens the Norwegian model, and weakens the recruitment of important professions. Some industries point out. I am pleased that the government is doing well with the Hurdal platform and working on regulations that will kill the exploitation of workers. The follow-up of the Fuugner Committee, the Norwegian model and the working life of the future is well under way. Many of the proposals submitted by the sample coincide with the wish of the Workers' Party to make a major improvement in working life. They have done a thorough job, and many of the suggestions from the sample should be seen in the context. It was also the clear feedback from those who took part in the hearing on the Red's proposal for a representative. They wanted to wait for the government's proposal. It is gratifying that Red has made a good contribution to both the Workers' Party's programme and the Hurdal platform. Nevertheless, when we do not choose to support the representative proposal from the Red Party, it is about respect for the democratic processes that are both announced by the government and initiated. It's almost turned out a little bit ahead of the annual pay statements. One knows that there will soon be wage negotiations and Easter when Stein Lier-Hansen from Norsk Industrie is out and announces that this year there is nothing to give. Similarly, one knows that as soon as someone in the government announces that a matter is being dealt with, Red comes with a proposal for a representative on the first possible occasion. It's a little special, but it's not surprising that it's Red's method. They went after all to the choice not to seek government power. In fact, when you look at the amount of representatives from Red, a few impressions can be that they think the government is only an unnecessary delay. We should be careful to provide the democratic processes we are so proud of in this country. Our position has broad support from the social partners. That is why the Labour Party is also on a safe footing when we do not support the Red Party's proposal for a representative, but are awaiting the start of the process and the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e486	In Norway, we will have a decent working life, with strong tripartite cooperation and full and firm positions as the more sunny general rule. When working life is changing, we need to assess how the rules can be adapted to the new everyday life, so that business grows and employees get the security they need and deserve. In the Fuugner Committee, much is worth discussing, among other things. to extend the concept of employers and workers in the labour-environment law and to establish a cross-cutting rule. Right goes into this work with a pragmatic and open mind to find solutions. At the same time, these are too important questions that we should deal with them in a piece and in part, as the Red's proposal points out. They should be dealt with together when the government comes back with its follow-up to the work of the sample. Although there is a lot that is worth discussing, there are some suggestions that we just can't agree to. Red's desire to ban the manning industry is one. So here we are talking about – overall – serious small and large enterprises that help businesses to acquire the right skills and that help job seekers to get a foothold in the labour market, serious companies that have responsibilities and the rights of the employee, and ensure that working conditions are within the rules of the labour market. Last week we could read about Christoffer from Bodø who was four years old in the Nav system without work. After a friend's advice, he contacted a staff agency, and now he is on his way to a letter and a permanent job as a carpenter. We need more such success stories. That's why we're worried when the Minister of Labour and Red takes on the ideological skyscrapers and goes to fight against the serious manning and rental instead of dealing with the unprofessional. We will warn against that. Very many sectors depend on rentals to make the business go around. Industry, health and construction are examples. At the same time, rentals constitute only a place between 1,7 and 1,9 pst. of the total workforce. Rather than forbid those who are serious, we must take those who are unprofessional. To take the unprofessional, control and better enforcement of the rules are the most important solution, and on the Right Guard we just did it. We tightened up the legislation and abolished the non-social zero-hour contracts. We made it crystal clear that the employee is entitled to fixed-term employment, real-time job percentage, pay between assignments and time limits for when to work. We put in place better controls, and we put in place to strengthen the a-krim centres. We took the slippery on those unprofessionals. In Norway, we will have a decent working life, with strong tripartite cooperation and with full and firm positions as the more sunny general rule. In order to do so, we must continue the work of the Right Guard, and we look forward to the cooperation of the Committee on Safe and Serious Work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e501	Temporary employment has almost become a musculoskeletal word on the left-hand side of Norway, but there is a gulf of different forms of labour relations. Some work part-time, some work full-time, some are hired, some start with temporary employment, some don't. This does not mean that the working life has become rougher or more brutal. Employee rights are strong in Norway. The differences are small, and temporaryity and rental are the exception, not the rule of Norwegian labour policy. That's good, and that's how we mean it should be. We do not want companies based on rents, which undermine employers' responsibility. Rental is intended to take the tops. In the two cases, several points are proposed, including: a geographical ban on rentals. Creating different rules based on some of the old states is strange, and there will always be a discussion about where that boundary is going to go. Should it be prohibited in Larvik and permitted in the neighbouring municipality Porsgrund, which is located in the same county, as the proposers will? Then we think it's better not to have such a geographical ban. The proposers also believe that the public should take greater responsibility for the provision of employment. The Progress Party has no objection to diversity in employment services as long as it is serious, legal and orderly. It's not that just because it's a state problem, it gets better. The manpower industry is essentially a serious industry that contributes to the supply of labour to industry. If a company wants to make use of that offer, we will not deny them. What we have to do, however, as the Progress Party has been engaged in for a long time, is to take those who are unprofessional and illegal. We have been involved in a number of actions to do so, not least the establishment of several a-krim centres, a significant strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate and the possibility of sectors talking to each other and sharing information to take the unprofessional ones. We're going to continue that work, but we're not going to go along with the radical steps that are addressed in this single proposal, and we won't do it piece by piece and division. Now there's a work going on, and we're looking forward to it. We want to see the whole thing and follow up on the work of the Fuugner Committee. Otherwise, I notice that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party are now folding their hands and doing nothing in matters they have previously been high and dark in. For example, Red's proposal is no. 4 so to say identical to what the Centre Party and SV themselves voted for in June 2020, in Prop. 61 LS for 2019-2020. I am pleased that a large majority vote in favour of the individual proposals that come today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e514	As the rapporteur pointed out in his statement, there are several important issues for the labour market and for workers raised in the proposals that have been put forward today. Just because it is so crucial, it is intended that the proposers have chosen not to listen to the overall input that came when the Committee consulted on the proposals. It was an overall employee side and also an employer side that made it clear that the proposed changes to the representative proposal had to be seen in the context of the notified proposals and changes by the government, in order to ensure good and thorough legal work and good practice. Today, proposals submitted by the Fuugner Committee are under consideration, but the proposals under consideration were put forward before the consultation deadline for the Fuugner Committee had expired, so the discussion takes place before the content has been assessed and, where appropriate, adjusted after the involvement of the social partners. It is not a good way to do legal work or to cooperate with the social partners. It is particularly important to listen to the interested associations, who know where the shoe prints and who organize those who are most vulnerable. Your feedback has been very clear, namely the desire to deal with the questions in a thorough manner. That's what SV's been listening to. Therefore, our vote in today's cases is not necessarily an expression of what we mean politically, but because we want the Storting to deal with these matters together and in a necessary manner, in order also to ensure feedback and assessments from the parties involved, as the social partners. The government has announced that these are issues to come, and that there is a work to be followed up. There is also a major issue relating to renting and regulation in the workplace. On the SV side, we look forward to grips with that work. We're not shooting any consensus in any way, but our starting point should be known, and it's also promoted several times in the past. SV wants to complete the manning industry. From the outset, SV has addressed the liberalisation and release that has had a very serious and negative impact on employment and on the safety of workers. We see today that it is a problem that permanent employees are replaced by hired labour, and we see that the violent labour imports have led to pressure on pay and working conditions and threaten important disciplines, such as for bricklayers and painters. We also see that the violent growth and use of hired labour in both construction and construction, industry and well-being are contributing to the prevention of enough workers in well-being and put a heavy pressure on the conditions of the trusted and their wage and work conditions, which are, in total, important security. The commercial manning industry is in stark contrast to the objective of a good and organized working life with security and professionalism. Nevertheless: precisely because the situation is so serious and the challenges are so great, we want a thorough and comprehensive work in this field. We know that we have a new majority in place. We have a government that has recognised the challenges and now has to come up with the solutions. I want to add that legal work is a crucial and important tool for trustees in their work, and that is also part of the reason why SV votes as we do today. We look forward to a thorough, comprehensive and proper treatment of crucial issues for working life and workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e527	Einar Gerhardsen said in his time that the biggest trick of the Norwegian labour movement was that no more workers had to stand with their hats in their hands, but that they could straighten their backs and see the boss in their eyes. This is the case in many parts of Norwegian employment, but in one sector there are other conditions. In one sector, workers are systematically new to wages; in one sector, workers are repeatedly told that they are suddenly not paid the next week anyway, and in one sector they can be replaced as soon as critical questions are asked. I'm talking about the manning industry – an industry that has been promised to give businesses flexibility at the expense of flexibility in life to those who work there. The flexibility given to businesses affects the security and flexibility of the people who are going to do these jobs. The self-image of the manning industry is great. It sees itself as an entrance ticket to work. But that story doesn't stand a meeting with reality. The situation of Norwegian staff members is not that they get a regular job, but that they are fed off with lower job breaks than what they actually work, and that they have less security for income and jobs than those who work in the workplace. If you talk to the organizational workers who organize Eastern European workers here in town and elsewhere in Norway, it's a pretty sad story they tell. They tell about manning companies that systematically cheat their employees for overtime. They tell us that 20 employees of a larger crew member in these days are fighting to get paid less than 1 million. kr for overtime work. They say that it is quite common at short notice to have to compensate without pay, and compensation does not take place by agreement between managers and employees, as in the ordinary working life – no, compensation occurs when the crew company does not have a job for the employees and thus forces them to be inactive and not to be paid. It is quite common – they say – that you have a much lower job break in the employment contracts you have in the employment agency than what you actually work, because the agencies ensure that they pay too much between jobs. All of this is contrary to the law, which must ensure predictability and non-discrimination. For the companies I have mentioned now, in anonymised form, they are members of the NHO Service and Trade, and therefore are part of the serious manning industry. So when the representative Stokkebø and Right talk about putting a slip on the unprofessional players in the manning industry, I would say that they have neither hit a man nor a ball, but on the contrary that the manning industry has found them on the back and simply moved on to put the ball in open measure. It would be thought that all the big business would distance itself from such an industry, but unfortunately it is – although there are many good signals from the government – only Red and SV who will ban the manning industry as it is today. Many rules have been tightened up for the manning industry, but despite all these legal work, we see that the manning industry shows enormous creativity and innovation when it comes to evading public orders and rules. That's exactly why we think we need to do something more basic about the problem and get us another way to run the employment service here in the country. The manning industry isn't just a problem for those who work there, it's a problem for our society too. If as a society we are no longer able to train professionals, like masons and painters, if no longer apply to these professions, if in Norway we are no longer able to build our own houses, but are totally dependent on the whole way to collect commuter labour from other countries at the last departure with Wizz Air, if that is the reality of the Norwegian economy, Norway is a very vulnerable country on the day of problems, as we see now, under the pandemic. There are several sectors currently lacking labour, and many are wondering what the alternative to the manning industry should be. I dare remind you that before the year 2000, there was no private employment agency in Norway. These problems were solved in other ways before 2000, and it was possible to build houses and ships and run other activities in Norway before 2000. The construction we are now in, was built completely without the manning industry. The alternative to the manning industry is three things: the first is a public employment agency; the second is rental between production companies; and the third, with which I will end, and which I dare to remind this room and Norwegian companies, is that it is not illegal to hire people in Norway. Norwegian companies that are required to work must rely on hiring people themselves and not renting them from private recruitment agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e546	The President will assume that the representative of Red will address his proposals in the cases. – It gives the representative Mimir Kristjánsson the thumb up to which the proposals have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e551	There is a lot in these proposals that I agree with. Something has already been provided, such as removing the general access to temporary additions, which was also a theme in the Fugner selection. Something is being done, such as tightening up the use of hired labour and other parts of the follow-up to the Fuugner selection. There is no news in any way that the Labour Party and the Center Party are busy with these matters. We have been decisive drivers and agenda-holders in the opposition. We negotiated e.g. in 2018, together with the other party, so to the extent that the right party feels that they have a slippage on parts of the industry, it is enough because the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the other party have pointed out and said, "There's the ball, go and take him – and so have made sure that there's a plurality on the Storting that has supported it." There has been a significant increase in the use of staff accommodation in recent decades. Inhabitants who push fixed additions, create greater differences in the working life, create insecurity in people, and have had a number of negative consequences both for individuals and not least at the social level. The government wants to streamline the use of embedded labour. I feel that there is a very clear political difference between right-hand side, that they simply don't understand the extent to which tenants have gained in some industries, and how decisive it is now to streamline this to ensure that there are fixed and direct additions that are more common there as well. The Ministry is working on several proposals in this area. It has been said publicly that, among other things: is concerned that we consider a possible ban on accommodation for construction workers in the Oslo area, as laid down in the regulation, that we are looking to remove the opening of labour laws when the work is of a temporary nature, an indication of the boundaries between hire and hire and hire, and an approval system for crew members. I am busy finding good solutions in this area. As a result, the Ministry has had several meetings with the social partners to highlight the impact of the measures in question. The suggestions will be sent on a ring as usual. The Government will also strengthen compliance with the legislation on retirement by reintroducing collective redress. There's something we're looking forward to submitting to Stortinget in less than too long. Surveys indicate that there is a breach of the rules on living quarters in parts of the world of work and that it is difficult for workers to follow up such offences. The hearing period has expired, and I am going to make the proposal on the matter quite soon. When it comes to the proposal to strengthen public employment services, I point out that the government wants to strengthen Nav's role as a employment service. It is mentioned in the Hurdal Platform, and it is also known that the Ministry is following up two call decisions relating to employment services in the Employment and Welfare Act. We will then, in cooperation with the parties, provide regular surveys on developments in the world of work in line with the level of organisation, tariff coverage, renting, fixed and temporary additions and other forms of association. The government is also working on various measures to strengthen the right to a full-time job. Several of the proposals made by these representatives have been received from the Fuugner Committee. It's a selection that's made a lot of good suggestions. It is very positive that the committee sees that the department is now working on following up these proposals. This government believes that there is a need to introduce stricter rules for forms of association and business organisation where the intention or consequence is to circumvent the responsibilities of employers or to weaken collectively agreed or statutory courts. There is a work that has a high priority, and the department wants to follow up the proposals quickly. I also attach great importance to having a dialogue with the social partners, including in the further work. The job of securing workers more power over their own everyday lives is in progress. I'm very proud to represent a movement and a government that makes sure that we get proper speed on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e580	We share the objective of maximum stability in working life, as many permanent employees as possible and an even volume of work. At the same time, we know that reality isn't always that simple. In industry, there is direct competition for the missions, and they may be long-term. In some periods, there's a lot to do; in others, it's smaller. How will the Council of State ensure that those who need flexibility, such as industry, continue to have it? Can she guarantee that the reductions in rentals will not affect the competitiveness of the shipbuilding industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e585	I am very busy with the competitiveness of both the yard industry and absolutely all other companies. There is one of the leaders to be able to create values in this country. The whole basic idea that their competitiveness will be reduced if they have more fixed additions, direct additions – in this way, one invests in them, because it knows one of the experience that a person does more when it comes to those types of additions, compared to when it comes to the use of hired labour. In that case, there is no foundation for making the same type of investment in competences as when one has a stronger connection. In any case, the legislation will still have scope for different forms of association. Even with the changes we see leading us, it will be possible to rent between production companies. It will be possible to have agreements with trustees about tenants, and it will, of course, also – despite the constraints of temporary additions – still be possible to have temporary additions when talking about real vicaria.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e592	It is very gratifying that the Council of State is so clear that action must be taken to change the conditions of power in the labour force in the favour of the workers. In order to change the conditions of power, it is essential that trustees have the necessary tools and opportunities, including to prevent unauthorised entry into the workplace. It is then alarming to see that the Labour Inspectorate points out that it is difficult to distinguish between the legal and illegal use of rentals. I wonder what the Council of State is thinking about it, and whether that is also part of the way to change the conditions of power in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e597	Unfortunately, the representative Bergstø is quite right that this is a clear warning we have received from the Labour Inspectorate. We also know that in checks that Stadsbyggen has carried out on their projects, one in half of the cases could not prove that the tenant was legal. It shows that this is too demanding today. A report from 2019 from Fafo shows that 23–36 pst. by the enterprises that had hired labour from staff for the last two years, may have done so without actually being able to do so under the legislation. There's some reason why we think it's important to get the degree of organisation up in these industries as well. We have managed to double the trade union deduction in two years. It would not be possible without cooperation with SV, who has supported the draft budget that ensures this. We also look forward to tabling a bill to reintroduce collective redress. There is also something that the Labour Inspectorate has said in the hearing that there is reason to reintroduce, because it will also strengthen the work of the Labour Inspectorate to ensure that the inmates are properly housed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e604	In Red, we are pleased that the Council of State and the government have announced that they will address the problems created by the manning industry and that there will be a major cleaning in the Norwegian labour market. One thing we have particularly high expectations for is a ban on the use of the manning industry in the construction industry in the Oslofjord region, which we look forward to being on the way, in line with some of the signals that have arrived. However, a challenge with such a ban — which has also been aired in the past by the Council of State — is that if a hole closes one more place, most of it can leak out somewhere else, for example. on the other side of the country. What would have solved all the problems of this kind is getting a total ban on the private personnel industry. My question to the Council of State is: why does the Workers' Party not want to go in for such a total ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e609	It is not the policy of the Workers' Party or this government to impose a total ban on tenants. There is nothing wrong with the nesting as a connection form set separately. What's wrong is the extent to which it's gained in some industries, and that in some workplaces and in some industries, fixed additions are accelerated. There's something we want to clean up. We want to make sure that people feel that they have a strong and clear connection to the workplace they have. We want to avoid a situation where people feel that they have to answer for more leaders – the one is the leader at the workplace, the other is the boss a job for in the staffing company. If this gets too much, it shifts power in the world of work. It moves power away from the workers. When we now send on a hearing suggestions for intrusions on inns, we will see a possible geographical prohibition relating to individual industries, in conjunction with general restrictions in the law, so that the extent of inns is reduced compared to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e616	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e623	The representative Stakkebø from the right said that the right got rid of the zero-hour contracts, and that the right took the slippery on the unprofessional ones. I think there is a need for the representative to read out what happened earlier, because that is not true, as was said. What we were facing was agreements designed by the NHO Service and Trade, which were called ‘fixed employment without pay between assignments’. There was a very serious shooting here in Stortinget to change that employment contract and change the law, and that led to Prime Minister Solberg admitting that it was her greatest defeat. Otherwise, in the case of slipping on the unprofessional, there is today an approval system for crew companies that are not operational. It's almost a paper tiger, and one of the jobs that the government is now going into, it's a good thing to look at approval schemes that are real. In the case of Stokkebø said about that 1,7 to 1,9 pst. by the labour force on staff, it is well taken from Fafo note 2021:17, the extent of renting in Norwegian working life. The initiators of the project were the Joint Alliance and the NHO Service and Trade. I have thoroughly reviewed that report and what shows that the statistical basis has major shortcomings. For this reason, it is important to provide statistical statistics showing the use of rentals from manning enterprises registered in Norway, other EEA countries and distributed among industries and counties in Norway, so that we have a common factual basis in the future discussion. In the case of temporary employment companies versus temporary employment agencies, the Blaalid Committee — which gave its decision in 1998: 15, for employment services and employmenteekers — went to temporary employment agencies. What we need to get back to now are temporary employment agencies to replace employment agencies, and those temporary employment agencies must also be able to provide employment services. To the example from Stokkebø about the person who had been on the Nav and got a job in the agency: Yes, we have many such good examples, and in that area there are staff companies that do a good job. But what now is that temporary employment agencies can do the same job. Then the Nav system needs to be improved so that there are competent professionals in the first line in Nav who know the business and the working life, and who know the jobseeker. No one has a better chance of doing that job better. That's the track the government's working along.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e642	It surprises me a little bit that Red runs so enormously on this matter of hiring labour, because if they want to do the best for the employees in this industry, they might do it by having an overall understanding of the case. We have the investigation from the Fuugner Committee. When Red promoted this proposal, it existed. The hearing period had not expired, and the investigation is a premise for the Committee's further work. The government confirmed it – it is not long before something comes from the government. Then we'll look at this whole industry and these challenges. If we're going to solve this, we can't have a broken and divided process. The representative Stakkebø boasted of the Right's efforts. Yes, it may be that they did something good there, but I'm a little surprised that there's so much to boast about, since yesterday I met a head of a construction product group in South Africa that runs a lot in the construction industry. He said that the biggest problem for them, which is a serious and large company, is that there has to be some drag behind – a-krimsenter and demands from the Labour Inspectorate – because that is not enough, what is lying there. It may be one of the challenges – we don't have enough solid legislation in place to clear up those unprofessionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e649	The right-hand side is concerned about the left-hand side of this hall. I think they should be much more concerned about workers who do not get regular employment and who are deprived of predictability – workers who are offered temporary contracts only because the right side of this room voted to introduce a general access to temporary employment without any conditions. It was a change that led to thousands of several temporary contracts from one year to the other. It's going to be the left-hand side of this hall to do something about. The right-hand side should be much more concerned about business models that are revealed in cases like the Stendi case, which went to court, where 22 members of the Trade Union sued the private health company. They should be much more concerned about this than about the left-hand side of this case. The right side should be much more concerned about all those who don't have full-time work, all those who have to hunt guards to get enough money for their expenses, enough money to support their kids. That should be more of a concern to the right-hand side of the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e657	The proposals that Red has put forward today are not just about the manning industry. They also deal with how to prevent an increasing number of Norwegian enterprises from systematically trying to organise themselves away from their responsibilities as employers. It was not long ago that many of us were together with frustrated dismissed employees from SAS outside the Storting in a demonstration. What they experienced was that they lost their job during the pandemic, with guarantees of getting back to the company when the times got better. Well, the same planes are flying, the same routes are going, but now the company has chosen to reorganize itself away from the obligation they have towards its employees, by setting up two own recruitment agencies within its own company and thus saying that the employees are no longer employed in SAS, but in SAS Link. This kind of maneuver was supposed to be unique, but unfortunately it is not. This type of manoeuvre is becoming more and more typical in Norwegian working life. More often and more often, we see that in order to avoid obligations and ensure their own flexibility, at the expense of the safety of employees and the flexibility of their lives, serious companies, such as SAS, also organise themselves away from employer responsibility. There is an extensive use of self-employed workers in Norwegian employment in areas where they are not self-employed at all, but only ordinary employees. But they are forced to organise themselves as self-employed in order to work there. These include: the matter of Aleris and Stendi. If you see internationally, you can see that this development has come much further. See, for example: in a company like Uber – the way they force their drivers to act as self-employed workers, and how they never take on any kind of employer responsibility for all the thousands of people who actually work for them. That is why we have put forward these proposals, and that is why we are looking forward to the whole work that everyone else is also waiting for, in order to clear up the concept of employers in the Norwegian legislation. If there is a minimum of employee rights, you have to know who you work for, and it must be clear that the employees you work for have obligations to the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e670	We've been a lot of people who've been upset about the treatment of SAS employees, and there was a broad assembly of elected representatives who met them on their mark. Just because we have to take seriously the situation that is, with restructuring, with the dismantling of the company, which means that contract works are parked, trustees no longer get to use their power, and that workers are put on the ground, it is vital that we listen to those who are in the fight, those who should have the pilot lukewarm on, and those who should be on the planes that go. There is the feedback very clear from the associations that organize the employees: this needs to be seen in a holistic way. For this reason, the federations and the LO have also asked the Stortinget to work in a comprehensive manner, with legal work, with measures that can ensure that employees are properly employed. Therefore, I just want to clarify how crucial it is that legal work is done in a way that makes it a tool for those elected to trust, and that we, who want the fundamental change in the conditions of power, work in a way that makes those who are closer to the struggle that is going on, also participate in where the direction is going. In the end, I just want a small comment related to the manning industry. What's been used as an argument for it is that people come to work. Therefore, it is necessary to say that the manning industry itself creates neither jobs nor workers, but is a link between the unsolved tasks and the free hands. That's why it was a joyous signal that came from the Council of State instead, that Nav needs to strengthen his job as an employment agency, and that's the way to lead people into safe work, where you can have whole and permanent jobs and not least an organized working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e679	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e698	I think we have a common goal: an optimal railway that is rusted to get through the green shift. I see that a new contract for the purchase of new local trains was signed at the latest yesterday. will go on the east fold track, so we are in the process of refurbishment. I remember that a few years ago it was said that if you were to cut off all the train traffic – it was a time when there was a discussion about the train was at all an appropriate means of transport – and cut out all the trains that went in and out of Oslo S, a take-up had to take all the country's buses and more to replace it. The train is the most important means of transporting large quantities of people into and out of a big city and between cities. So it's important that it works, that we get the most out of the money. Record-breaking investments are now being made on new routes and the ERMTS are finally on its way in. When this is in place, the infrastructure will be at a completely different level from today, and the possibilities for efficient operation will be even greater. The results of the first three traffic packages show that the rail reform has begun to produce positive results. For the routes on the southern runway, the Arendal Railway and the Jærbanen and the northernmost sections of Norway, i.e. the Dovrebanen and northwards, the state will receive half the costs of operating the train offer for a decade. For the traffic on Bergensbanen, where Vy won the bid, the State will even get paid – yes, 2 billion. kr shall be paid during the tendering period in order to carry out the traffic. This shows the potential for attracting more travellers when implementing the right policy. This represents a significant saving for the State, compared to the State's continued existence of current agreements. These savings may benefit the railway in the form of increased investments, such as electrification of the Meråkerbahnen and the Tranderbahnen, realization of the Ringeriksbahnen and expansion of InterCity. Competition facilitates more innovation in the sector and makes better use of resources than in the past. We see that new players are thinking creatively about developing the train offer, and the travellers are getting at least as good an offer as today. There are opportunities to directly award contracts also with the new legislation. It was one of the major debates on the rail reform – if it was possible to do anything other than tender. And that's it. It must then lead to better quality of service or greater cost-effectiveness compared to previously awarded contracts. I am surprised that the followers of direct allocation do not think they can take advantage of that exception. It seems that a person does not believe that direct award provides better quality of service than in the case of tenders. We need specialized companies that can deliver good trains for Norwegian conditions and good digital systems. This provides lower barriers to establishment and provides a basis for better provision of collective travellers and effective competition on equivalent terms. There is constant criticism of rail reform and the treatment of employees in competition. Leader pay and the number of directors in the railway sector have also been criticised. In any case, we know that there has been a business transfer, and it is possible to continue working in new companies with the same pay and working conditions for conductors and drivers. The question to the Minister for Transport relates to the tenders submitted in the rail package IV in the autumn of 2021. When will the tenders be published – before or after the direct award? Can or will the Ministry enter into a contract directly awarded other than that on the basis of which the competition is based? What alternative approach does the Council of State consider to ensure that an attractive and efficient train is achieved? Effectiveness will be a central element of the direct purchasing negotiations. The Council of State itself has said that the package can be directly allocated to one or more actors. I guess the government here is talking about the Vy or the Fly train, which are both state owned. If one is to negotiate direct purchases with two actors, is it not a competition in practice? There will also be direct allocations of other sectors, for example: Ferry or road maintenance? Why does a chosen railway have a choice? There is a competition on the bus. Is there any government considering going away? At all: the Council of State has some thoughts about preventing competition on Norwegian rail, and thus does not want foreign companies to enter, while Vy participates in tenders in EU countries and among others. Buy trains in Sweden? There are many questions, and I'm happy to get some answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e721	This government wants a better rail service for everyone. Passengers shall receive a better train service and several shall choose to travel environmentally friendly by rail. We believe that this can best be achieved through national ownership and state railway management. We believe, unlike the previous government, that we do not get a better train offer through further fragmentation of the railway sector. The railways in Norway have been developed by the Community's resources over 150 years, and for us it is important to maintain a strong state train company, so that we can always guarantee the traveller a good offer. The launch of railway competition was a theme of the campaign. The government parties and the other parties who wanted to stop the competitive outsourcing were granted a solid majority in the Grand Prix elections. The majority of the people wanted a different policy, and we are following it through a number of measures. The cessation by the government of the competitive outsourcing of the train offer covered by traffic packages 4 and 5 in favour of direct allocation is part of this work. Several other European countries are now directly awarding the train offer within the framework of the EU’s fourth railway package, e.g. Belgium and Poland. So this is not a strange phenomenon. At the same time, the government provides stability for the train companies that have been awarded train offers that were put at a competitive disadvantage. The agreements concluded with Go-Ahead Norway, SJ Norway and Vy trains are established. The competitive advantages to which the representative refers are based on technical calculations where the level of previously directly awarded agreements is fixed. This means that no major improvements would be made to the old direct contracts. One of the prerequisites of the new direct contracts will be that the companies with which the State enters into a direct agreement, design and offer a better train offer than the current train offer. It is also the case that the pandemic has created considerable uncertainty about future travel patterns and the income base of public transport operators. This applies, of course, whether or not the train offer is included in the first three traffic packages and whether or not it has been put off for competition. At the same time, it becomes too simple when the representative still uses ten-year old figures on time, without taking into account how the pandemic affects train traffic. The government has great ambitions for the railway. We're going to expand InterCity in line with Stortinget's decision, we're going to remove bottlenecks and make it more efficient to carry goods by train, the state is still going to be an offensive buyer of passenger transport from state companies, and we're going to make sure that direct allocation provides the best train offer and get more people to travel environmentally friendly at a good price – for the state and for the passengers. At the same time, of course, we will keep the pressure on the implementation of ongoing and planned investment and improvement projects and put heavy emphasis on good operation on the railways. This government will continue to invest on the railways to improve the daily travel of commuters and other travellers and for freighters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e736	It is good that you have the opportunity to ask follow-up questions, because I did not get any answers to any of the questions I asked. But it's maybe the way in the first round that then has a prewritten script -- it had at least I had, and it had the council of state -- so I guess now it's up to me to get some answers to the questions. The council says that it is wrong to base the technical calculations on how much you can save. In the case of Bergensbanen, the state will have 2 billion. kr in the register from Vy, who runs the Bergensbanen, so it's probably not a technical figure. It has to be a number that actually gives savings directly. It shows the attractiveness of some sections of the railway when Vy went to pay 2 billion. kr to be able to drive the trains on Bergensbanen. The offer has now become much better, thanks to the timetable that started in December. So the government also uses an argument that I haven't heard before, that now we can't stick to the old numbers, because now we have pandemic. Yes, we've had pandemics for two years now, but we know what the traffic base was before the pandemic, and we hope that the traffic base will be the same after the pandemic – at least we think that much of the traffic will come back, even though maybe not everything will come back. But I could start by asking the question: When the Council of State talks about the train companies, does that mean that the Fly train is also involved in the assessment when the Council of State will directly allocate traffic on the Eastern package? The airline has shown an interest in it and is a fully state-owned company – that’s clearly what it’s about now, being full-fledged state companies in order to be in competition – so I expect the Council of State to confirm that Vy gets competition from the Flytrain for direct allocation in the East. So this is the question, as I also asked: Will the Ministry include other specifications in a directly awarded agreement than the one on the basis of which the offer was made for the Eastern package – or package 4? There are many trains in the East, many trains out and in from Oslo, and it has quite a big impact on the economy how this direct allocation system is going to be, because it can determine whether we get the funds to build up the necessary railway infrastructure further, as we had set up in the previous government. So when is direct allocation going to happen? When will the tender documents be published for those who submitted tenders in the Eastern package 4?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e749	When I use terms like 'theoretically calculated numbers', it's because it's just that. The future, and what it will now bring within the train segment and the market base there, is highly uncertain. Of course, I share the representative's wish that we return to a high passenger figure and even a growth, but of course we cannot be quite sure of that at the speaking time. We don't know anything now about what's going to be the new normal. There are some influence factors that can be lasting. We're excited about how this develops, and I'm sure the representative is too. So I think that this government has been very clear that we want to use methods other than competition in train transport, and we have, through elections, a clear mandate from the people to do so. I am very clear that it must also be that there are other ways of obtaining efficiency and other ways of succeeding in increasing the passenger base than through competition. I can refer to a very familiar example, and that's what Oslo Spurvejer has done. There has been a fantastic development, with a fully integrated model, and even a very high level of efficiency – among the most efficient in the world in road transport. So here, in my opinion, it is entirely possible, through contractual relationships, through dialogue, through direct allocation, to achieve both efficiency and improved train transport provision for the population. As far as the more specific things are concerned, it will be that we give assignments to the Directorate of Railways. They're going to answer that, how we're going to proceed with direct allocation, and I'm not prepared to give any more detailed information about here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e758	I think I have to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that there has been no choice in Norway where a decision has been taken on or against the launching of the railway. If you had asked that question, the Council of State might have received a small repetition of the many customer surveys that have been carried out in terms of regularity and partly service from the railway monopoly. After all, it is not the railway that has to be exposed to competition. If you had built parallel railways, you'd have wasted resources. But the competition between those who are going to compete for the train services themselves is, after all, a sensible approach. There is no doubt that the monopoly has some characteristics that are not directly customer-friendly. Firstly, monopoly is very expensive. Monopoly is wasted with resources, and where monopoly is strictly unnecessary, for example. natural monopolies, competition should be sought. So it would have been a little bit interesting to get a little basic statement from the Council of State on why the monopoly has so great excellence in railway operations, because experience suggests the opposite. For example, if you go to Switzerland, it's the state that owns the railway, you have significant competition between the train companies, and it's probably no country in Europe that has a greater punctuality in railway operations than Switzerland. And then it might have been interesting to scale up to the experiences you've had in Norway, for example. on Gjøvikbanen, where the experience with the outsourcing of competition is positive. There are also user surveys where users have recorded an absolute progress and improvement after the railway was exposed to competition. The train equipment has also been used more efficiently. So the question to the minister is, what are the advantages of the railway monopoly that require us to continue this? Finally, I must remind you that in Denmark it was said in its time that the Railway Federation was to be seen as the 13th political party. Is it one-sided consideration of the pressure from the trade union at this point, which has helped to land the government's position on the matter, or has it also been open to the feedback from the passengers? We must not forget that the railway is primarily for passengers, not for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e769	The Hurdal platform clearly states that the government rejects the launching, fragmentation and privatisation of the railways. The government will therefore stop the ongoing supply of routes in Norway. The government will provide a real train offer, so people can use the train to get back and forth quickly. The railway reform must be reversed in order to ensure a simpler organisation of the railway sector. It is necessary to improve train provision and make it easier for passengers. The center party thinks the most important thing for the railway is more trains and not more train companies. Several train companies do not lead to a better train offer, rather on the contrary. Multiple train companies lead to an increase in the price and a less transparent offer for train passengers. The centre will create an attractive and modern train offer for passengers and workers on the basis of a long-term objective that the train will be able to compete with aircraft and road traffic to be an attractive transport offer between parts of the country. There are several weaknesses in the supply of passenger services. It is therefore good that the whole process is now being stopped. The outsourcing reinforces the division and responsibilities of the railway sector, which has come as a consequence of the rail reform of the previous government. When the SJ was awarded the Traffic Package 2 Nord in 2019, the Railway Directorate decided that Norwegian Vy delivered the best quality and understanding of the assignment, but that SJ was the best at price. Difor won the SJ offer. So it was not the company that had the best quality as water, but the company that delivered the cheapest offer. The centre part will provide a train offer that allows people to choose trains to arrive quickly and easily. That means that people should be able to trust that the train comes out when it's going to, that it comes frequently enough, and that people don't have to pay too much to pay the train. Unfortunately, for the last eight years, we have seen that the Right in Government, with the Progress Party as a support wheel, has been the most uptight of the start of competition and the creation of more companies. The consequences of this were, for example: Passengers now in the summer – families who wanted to go on an environmentally friendly train journey – notice that there has been a poorer possibility to buy low-price tickets on trains. Since there are several train companies running trains on the railways in Norway, one could risk having to buy low-cost tickets from several companies, thus double or triple ticket prices. This is a direct consequence of the postponement of the competition of the previous government. The centre part wants the most possible train take, and then we have to provide it with lower prices and a better train offer. The centre party will stop the launching of competition and reverse the fragmentation of the railways in Norway. It will provide a better and cheaper train service for all passengers throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e786	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for a question that for a long, long time has been political disagreements. What's a little bit of a shame is that the pandemic has made it very difficult to come up with the actual numbers of how evolution has been -- one can kind of just imagine how it would have gone. What we know today is that the railway has lost considerable competence. I come from Trøndelag, and where railway competence is, at Marienborg, people have stopped, precisely because of the tendering regime and because there have been uncertainties between the different. The Labour Party opted for fewer companies within the same group. The representative Harek Rivers Switzerland now mentioned as an example of a country where the railway was exposed to competition. It is not a knowledge that was acquired by the previous Transport Committee when we were in Switzerland and looked at the train structure. There was the same owner of both stations, tracks and operation of the train offer, so it cannot vote. It is true that Switzerland is successful, and that is exactly why it may be important for us in Norway to look at how it is done in other countries. And also Germany says the same thing: fewer companies offer a better deal for those who want to use it. In particular, it is safer for employees not to submit tenders every five years. I have talked to several cleaners who were not part of those who were transferred to the company. They're doing the same job now. They have to make it faster and at other times, at lower wages. It actually makes people stop. The service is getting worse, and the employees have a worse working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e795	The centre party is, like the interpellant, agreed that we must have a train offer that is effective, both in terms of the emergence and cost to users and in terms of the use of resources that the State has allocated to the rail supply. The representative Lien has described in a very good way the central party's starting point in this debate, so the reason why I take the floor is that I want to challenge the interpellant too a little, because on several occasions the representative of Greece has pointed out concrete amounts allocated to saving in the event of a competitive outsourcing. However, in this sum, which the representative and others have raised, on potential savings by increasing efficiency associated with competitive outsourcing, there are, among other things, increase passenger numbers, increase future passenger numbers on the railways. I want to think that if people choose to take trains or not, it's based on more regulations than what company names are on the train. But this has really been one of the taboo arguments in the case of the launching of railway operations. Norwegian Railways have had a significant economic activity over the last 10–15 years. This has resulted in an efficiency gain for our railways, and everyone operating on Norwegian railways benefits. So since this is an interpellation debate, it would be nice to send a couple of questions to the interpellant, too, because it's interesting if the representative Trond Helleland really thinks that the increase in revenue that comes as a result of higher passenger numbers would not have come if there was no suspension of passenger activity. Is the interpellant saying that the large resources that have been used on Norwegian railways over the last 10–15 years have given an efficiency gain on the railways? And if it does, won't it also make the railway operations more profitable for all users of the railway, regardless of the competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e804	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue of competitive outsourcing. As far as rail investment is concerned, the most important thing is to have a willingness to invest, and we've really had that in the last eight years. That is, what is now used on the railway is probably twice as much as it was in 2013. That's 31 billion. kr, if I am not mistaken, in the budget for next year, in addition to having had a quite formidable passenger growth. It's up from 62 million. DKK to over 80 million. kr. The number of trains driven has increased significantly during these years. For the Left, competition is also an instrument for improving rail services. What needs attention must always be given to getting better rail services – but competitive outsourcing is an instrument. The first example was the Gjøvik track, which was put off for competition in 2005. At the time, it was a motivation to compete to save Gjøvik. At that time, the challenge was that it was planned to shut down the northern part, from Roa to Gjøvik. On the left, we expected that we would be able to save the track over the ten years by having a competitive outsourcing and a tender that would last ten years. We were quite sure that within ten years the discussion about the Gjøvik course would also change, as it also turned out that it did. In addition to being a great success through the fact that there were many more people using the railway, one has thus been involved in developing it in the future. I also believe that when we look at the competitive edge that has now been implemented, it can be implemented well, or it can be implemented less well. The model we've chosen in Norway is that what we're launching is just about the responsibility to drive trains. The entire railway is still state-owned. There is no competition on it, unlike what you started with, among other things. in the United Kingdom. There's no competition on the property, it's state owned. There is an activity transfer in respect of the employees — they have the option of transferring to the tenderers who win the tenders. For me, it's hard to understand this ideological resistance to competitive outsourcing, because what I'm experiencing is that almost in any case, we're not going to put off competition. It is always that you have a starting point that it is the state that is best, both to own, to drive the railway and to drive. I don't think so. I think we have to keep looking at how we're going to make incentives to get a better railway. And by the model we have chosen in Norway, I believe we have. It also shows on the routes that we have now put off competition that there has been a better offer. Then you better go inside and see where the problems are. It was mentioned here that the coordination of low-cost tickets could have been better. Okay, but then you better go inside and see how we do it better, instead of ending and going against competitive outsourcing itself. Because there's no doubt that the numbers of how much you can save are numbers and money that would otherwise be used on the railway to improve the offer. Then I am glad that the Council of State is drawing up the Highway in Oslo as an example of those who run effectively. It was I, the City Council, who started – Best 2015. They run efficiently. I was quite clear that it was the model we were supposed to have, but I was also because we were exposed to competition and had tenders for the bus operation in Oslo, which is operated very well, with which there have never been any problems, and which are more efficient. We have a company owned by the municipality, but it's also in competition with the others. It shows that it is the purpose that must be the important thing. That's how I think it has to be now. Once the government has opted for direct allocation, it must be expected that it will give you an equal or better offer than you would have received under competitive outsourcing. I really hope you don't use the pandemic as an excuse for not maintaining the offer at the same level of ambition as the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e819	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question and an important debate. For the Progress Party, competition has always been good. I think very few will return to the old system in a number of other areas where it was previously thought that the state and the public were the best drivers. With regard to the adjournment of the other parties against the need for a competitive outsourcing, it is also said here from the pulpit that you want more trains, not more companies. I fully agree with that, but for me, passengers are most important. And when Go-Ahead won the offer, it was simply due to a more customer-oriented and customer-adapted offer, and that you would have several passengers on board. Then they asked the passengers and commuters what they were busy about, and arranged the offer in the wagons after that. This was something that had been demanded for many years, but that you never got with the NSB, because then it was the state that decided: that was the way it was, finished talking! It was a pleasure that when Vy won the bid for Bergensbanen, they were asked at the press conference, at which I was present, how it could have been that the state had previously paid 200 million. kr a year, then Vy could now pay the state 200 million. kr. How could they win the competition and drive so much cheaper? The answer was that they would make it more attractive. They were supposed to get more passengers on board. So they could pay the high price and have the high price difference. Other parties now say that competition is not good. You have to do it better by doing it yourself, more completely. You also talk about all the companies, and it's so dangerous. The progress party thinks it is good to have Norwegian trains. It is the State that owns the train sets and ensures that the railway and train sets have a good standard. It's not about making this worse, on the contrary. The companies hire trains, and you have full control that they are in proper and modern condition. This is not about fragmentation; it is about clear accountability. Sometimes in the debate, and in the public vocabulary as well, it sounds like you're going to run the railway together if you have a direct allocation. No, you shouldn't. Vy is a train operator. Path NOR provides the railway. It might then be tempting to ask what you think about the Post. You want to create a post office again, do you want to go back to it? Or are you happy to have mail in the store? As far as road construction is concerned, will you return to the fact that not only Mesta, but also the State Road Service will take everything by itself, under their own direction, and that we will have a complete development? It might have been interesting to know. We have a government council that, at least through opinions, has been a clear champion of railway development and for us to have a better offer. And that's right, as Erling Sande says, you don't have much experience. For the time being you know that it's saved 1 billion. kr. But you have to take seriously the amounts of savings that were available in the previous packages and in the package we are discussing here and now. These are significant amounts, which, at least on which the Progress Party has been ready, can be used to invest in more expansion and even better offers, instead of using the money now to maintain exactly what you have. It's a little bit special. How to find space for that, it's going to be interesting to look after it. You're talking about using Mini Prize as an example that it's going to be more expensive, but most people don't travel on it. And in the case of Minipris, the Minister of Transport could only have talked to the companies about it and asked them to coordinate this. The truth is – at least in what has been published so far, in the past, when it came to the conclusion that there was a problem – that Vy would not cooperate with the other companies. Maybe Vy himself would have been interested in going into dialogue to make sure that a system was set up that looks after the interests of those who are travelling on Mini-Price tickets. For the Progress Party, it is essential to ensure a good offer. It's not just about price, it's about quality. Quality means I have been delivered so far by the companies, based on what they have said they will deliver. This option is now missed, when you choose to do a direct allocation and don't want to see what you could have saved, so that you could have spent additional money on making the railway even better for all passengers. It would have been important to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e839	Thank you to those who have taken part in the debate. At first, it looked like the Council of State and I was alone here, so I'm very happy that more people signed up. This is an important topic because it's huge sums we're talking about. And to the representative Sande: the figures I've used are those we've got from the department, last confirmed by Minister of Transport Nygård in a response to Terje Halleland. So we're using the official numbers. We're not making up numbers. Then it's not sure they're going to turn all the way in, because the pandemic is breaking in, it can happen to other things, etc. The point is that there is a savings and a win. So the question is: Is today's government able to prove that with the direct allocation to be made – it's still uncertain whether the Fly train is in that discussion, it's a state-owned train company – we get an equally effective operation of the state-owned vehicles and locomotives on the state-owned railway? There is no one in this room who says that you should privatize the railway and the material. What we're saying is that we want a competition between different train operators to deliver the best possible offer on a route. That's obviously what the government thinks is problematic. But luckily, they have not problemated that there are offers on buses, speedboats, ferries, FOT routes and other air routes that go all over the country. There are tenders for road construction – there are tenders for the most part. There must be something else – perhaps it is the Association of Railways or Norwegian Locomotives that is the answer here – that has caused the government parties to think that there is competition to drive between Oslo and Drammen, Oslo and Bergen or down to Fredrikstad on the train line, is terrible, while on all other public transport there must be competition. What is quite incomprehensible to us who are happy in the train, who want to take the train, is that it should not be possible to see a little difference in the service offered by Go-Ahead on Sørlandsbanen, SJ on Dovrebanen and Vy on Bergensbanen. That's refreshing. Then I agree with all those on my side who have said: Fix it with Minipris! It's completely possible. Don't let Vy get in the way of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e848	I would like to thank you for an interesting debate. At least it shows that we agree that we need to have a better train offer in Norway. And I would like to stress that the most important thing to achieve a better train offer in Norway is that we get a better infrastructure. I would like to highlight ERTMS, which has been discussed by many, which will be particularly important in order to achieve a good signalling system, but also the major infrastructure investments will be important. I would like to comment on some of what has been said in the debate. What the representative of Elvesuen said about the track is interesting. It seems to him, like me, that for rail transport it makes sense that it is a fully integrated model, or at least that it is the owner's own company that runs it. Then you have a different attitude to public transport. This is because we look differently at the rail infrastructure and the integrated model it is. I have not observed that there has been a call in the population after several railway companies, that is what you think will lead to improvements in train provision. The representative of Riveres says that if there had been a vote on how to organise the trains – yes, it's a little interesting debate. We are all elected to the mandates of the population. I assume that the previous government thought that it had authority from the population through elections to pursue a different railway policy, in line with the fact that we are now pursuing a railway policy in the direction that we have been informed about in elections. That's the way it has to be. In terms of these numbers, I repeat that they're theoretically calculated numbers, assuming that you don't get any passenger growth at Vy. Already there you can see that there are some weaknesses in the numerical basis. I think it's quite possible to get a growth in the passenger base for Vy, as it is for other companies. Of course, I'm very concerned that in the direct allocation process we will also get out effectiveness. We always have to do that. If you look at what's the experience in other countries, it's different. Other countries choose the same models that we now choose. I guess no one has a monopoly on what's the right way to organise the railway. But I am very sure that the direction we are now going in will lead to a good rail service for users, first of all, a good rail service for employees in the sector and efficient operation of Norwegian railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e861	The interaction debate was closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e879	In 2015, Bergen Norway’s first zero-emission vessel was certified as a passenger ship. The name was "Beffen". ‘Beffen’ was the start of a major effort for Norway in the field of green shipping. The industry had already been working for a while to look at the potential for raising Norway as a green shipping nation. With the little ferry we were now on. But the views were much larger, and so the government developed the Solberg Green Maritime Programme and, after a while, a concrete action plan. By investing in green shipping we cut homes, we strengthen maritime nutrition, we create green jobs for the future, and we are eager to develop technologies that we can export globally. The combination of public supply requirements and instruments such as Enova, Klimasat and the NO X fund has contributed to the fact that Norway in 2021, and even more today, has more than 70 whole or part-electricated ferries. That's approx. one third of the way we have ferries in Norway. We also get the first hydrogen ferry on the spring soon, and although it's going to go on electricity until well out in 2022, as we still lack hydrogen infrastructure, we're still running on the ferries. It's incredibly exciting. The maritime cluster we have here in Norway has shown that they have both the ability, the will and the competence to raise the forward-looking solutions for shipping. As a nation, we have the potential to become technology leaders in this area and with it creating jobs and increasing the share of export-related technology and industry. With the development of the green solutions before the marine industries, we will bring down CO 2 emissions not only in Norway, but also globally. If we're going to have this green shipping conversion, we're going to have to use the public purchasing power. State and state will be important actors. We have taken on the ladder coats, we have gone in front of the clean seas in the broad sense, and the IMO has set ambitious targets based on our pressure. There have been broad efforts: clusters and catapults have been established, policy decisions have been taken to push forward, tools have been put into service, and public procurement is useful to get ahead of work. Strategies and action plans have been developed, and the industry itself has followed up with road maps. The government of Støre chose to enter into the budget unit with SV. It has now been suggested that a public procurement should poll zero-run ferries and speedboats, and that the county should be compensated for this. It's a great goal, but we get a little upset when we get a response to questions from the department saying that a cork has an overview or knowledge of the range of such decisions, whether economic or technical. That's why I thought it was great that we had this debate here today. We look forward to the Council of State thinking about how he sees that the process and cost developments for this decision will be. It is important that the county councils now have security so that they can set full speed when ordering a zero-emission vessel when new route packages are to be offered. It's the public Norway that shows the way, it's the ones that have the muscles, and it's the ones that make it possible for business to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e910	The climate crisis is our greatest challenge, and for this government it is important that we reach our targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That's an important ambition for us. Therefore, the government of the Hurdals platform has announced that our ambition is to cut Norwegian emissions by 55 pst. by 2030. The Hurdal platform clearly states that Norway’s ambitious climate targets oblige the entire government and all parts of society. At the same time, it is not only an important measure to reduce Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions; it is also a good example of how we can help create new jobs in the maritime sector. The request decision shall read as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that, as far as possible, tenders in county ferry and boat services are to be based on zero-emission technology and to compensate counties for the additional costs involved.’ So it's important to read the whole text of the request decision. We are in the process of following up this decision and will, together with the county councils, find out what it is possible to achieve. In the first instance, we need to identify which tenders are relevant to the process. Of course, the question of compensation must be dealt with in the ordinary budgetary processes. Ferry and fast boats are an important part of climate policy. The Government has therefore notified that new tenders for ferries in 2023 require zero emissions and that low and zero emissions are required in new tenders for speedboats in 2025. These are points in the Hurdal platform. The ferry sector is that part of shipping that has become the most advanced in using low and zero emission technologies. The first battery ferry was launched in 2015, and at the end of 2021 there was a battery on board of 80 ferries. I am pleased that the state and county councils have taken a leading role in the use of green technology. Among other things, in the interpellant's old state, Hordaland, you've been out early and electrified your whole ferry fleet. For the speedboats, zero and low-emission solutions have not yet been as easy to implement. These have high energy needs, and due to transport distances and speed, this has been a challenge. But we also see here a promising development. The county council is showing its way and has signed development contracts in the project of the Quick Boat of the Future. The costs of transition to low and zero emission solutions for ferries and speedboats could vary. Our basis shows that battery ferries can be competitive with conventional technology on some lines, while for other purposes there will be considerable additional costs. Zero-emission speedboats are not as market-ready as zero-emission ferries. Therefore, the additional costs here could be significantly linked to their phase-in, at least in the short term. It is the case that much of the ferry fleet in the state and county must in any case be renewed, and that is part of the case where not all additional costs can be explained by increased environmental requirements. We have examples that phase-in environmental technologies can reduce costs, especially in terms of reduced operating costs. I would like to stress that we see a major shift in the whole transport sector, and that we have good reasons to expect that the extra cost of zero-emission solutions will be lower in the time to come. It also applies to ferries and speedboats. I cannot explain in detail the additional costs arising from environmental requirements in ferries and fast boats in the coming years. It is the county councils that acquire the county ferry and speedboat services, and it is those who are allowed to explore the concrete solutions and are responsible for them, among other things. in technology selection phase, route frequency and capacity. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate for me to have detailed information about acquisitions to be made by county councils. On the other hand, I want to make sure that we have a good overview of the cost picture from the government as well. We will therefore work to get an up-to-date basis with good cost figures for low- and zero-emission solutions in the ferry and fast boat sector. Of course, I want to follow up Storting's decision on ferries and speedboats in the usual way, but I have to come back to the concrete follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e934	I would like to thank you for your introduction. We are quite a few that the technology is gradually in place for the ferries, whether it's battery power or hydrogen energy carriers. Here, the state road service has helped to contribute by ordering two ferry connections. This must also be linked to the hydrogen strategy and road map, which must again connect to land transport. This will be a great and important symbiosis, and it will not happen by itself – it must be political will. When we see what has happened in the last five to six years – from «Beffen» had its first trip, until the fleet we have today – it has been a fantastic journey, and this must not stop. When it comes to zero emissions from speedboats, the state council is quite right: we don't have the same distance. But the industry says if they get the order, they'll be able to produce what we want. Because on the longer connections hydrogen is required. This technology is at the moment. not demonstrated in full scale on quickboat. It is, as the Council of State says, the Trøndelag that has seen itself in the driver’s seat and got the project called the ‘Future Rapid Boat’. They have received funds from the Environment Directorate. The project goes over several phases, but they experience an uncertainty in the comparison when it comes to the budget, considering what the progress of the project will be. It would therefore be nice if the minister had confirmed that we understood the decision correctly, namely that here a running full gas can. As the project is, we're not going to get a quick boat on the water until 2027-2028, and I'm going to wish we had a tighter propulsion on this. The county councils can use the model for the state road system. They have benefited from competitive dialogue contracts, resulting from the ‘Ampere’ battery pack. Path to make purchasing battery vacations from holiday rentals The speedboats are currently under county purchasing, but we feel that the process of getting speedboat solutions is taking too long. There are too different competences in county councils for the purchase of new technology, so removing the uncertainty of the economy will be an important step on the way to getting the first vessels on hydrogen where batteries do not stretch.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e945	I feel that the representative, Eskeland and the undersigned, are largely in agreement on the reality picture. We also agree that there are great opportunities ahead of us, but there are also some challenges. I believe that both the government platform and the request decision that came in the Stortningen relating to the budgetary agreement balances well. Here you want to be offensive, here you want to use purchasing power, here you want to support under, but of course we have to take into account that it says: as far as possible. Of course, it's about technology development, but it's also, of course, about finding funding and getting everything in our budgets. I believe that this is an opportunity for us to achieve several important societal goals at the same time – a real win-win image. We can achieve technology development, value creation and Norwegian job development, while at the same time helping to achieve our climate goals – that we also achieve zero emissions in ferry transport and fast boats in full. Here are many possibilities that I want to take care of in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e952	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic on purchasing power and green shipping. In contrast to the previous interpellation, we're probably much more in agreement with the targets, and that also shows the previous decisions on aggregates. We have high ambitions to achieve some climate goals. The transition to zero emissions for ferries on county lines has come a long way, perhaps longer than for the national road links, which are now following a tendering plan – that a climate change requirement is being imposed on new calls for tender. The size has, as I said, ambitious targets also on behalf of the county councils, but has not followed up so far with operational resources. It has given us the climate effort on ferries, and it has given us a ferry uprising where the only possibility the county municipalities have had is higher ferry fares. This is the new government going on, and now the ferry fare is reduced by 30 pst. Norway is a maritime nation and can build boats. Therefore, the green shift at sea could give us a much greater added value than the emissions cut itself, in terms of both industrial development and increased exports. When I was a state politician until 2017, I worked in Trøndelag with a development project for the future speedboat, and that offer was to be launched in 2021. This work stopped in 2019 due to a lack of operational resources. This is also interpellant: predictability for the future. On 5 November last year, the County Director of Transport in Trøndelag signed a development contract with six suppliers to develop a new technology and new boat models for several counties – Vestland, Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. This is going to be exciting to follow in the future, and that's how everything goes with everything. These include research and supplier development, new technologies and sufficient operational resources. It also does the energy message we're waiting for that relates to the different models of zero emissions, which we have to look at, but also what we've adopted in terms of climate targets in the national transport plan. But above all, there are great expectations of a predictable county economy in which the county council is a regional development actor, and where the government through the Hurdal platform has made clear promises that the county councils are now engaged in the exciting work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e965	I have followed the debate with interest and will give a little snapshot from my own constituency, Sogn and Fjordane, because there has been a huge amount of happening in the last few years. Let me get some examples: In Förde, a ship design environment has been established that is entirely in front when it comes to zero- and low-emission vessels of almost all kinds. So the next time you travel with a battery ferry, you might just as well think that it's designed by, for example. Multi Maritime. In Florø lies Evoy, who designs, develops and supplies world-leading powerful whole-electric motor systems especially directed towards fast boats between 20 and 50 feet. A little further into the county, a little further north, lies the Hyen in Nordfjord. Here is Brothers Aa, a traditional and modern company before the design and production of fast-paced vessels in carbon fiber. The company is also behind the almost iconic «Future of The Fjords», which is fully electric and completely emission-free, and which carries happy tourists between Flåm and Gudvangen. Then we've also got different collaborations and clusters. Here I would like to call Hub For Ocean, a member of the organization of marine operators. Hub For Ocean also operates the National Cluster Ocean Hyway Cluster, which works to realize hydrogen-based solutions in the maritime sector. So there's a lot of positive happening, and the public has to do with it -- of course, in many ways, not least when it comes to the purchasing power and the setting of terms in contracts, which has been mentioned by this pulpit several times today. Again, to return to Sogn and Fjordane: I have seen how ferries have started as pilots, for example. «Ampere» over the Sognefjord, and I have seen that electric ferries are now being rolled out to a large extent – we are now approaching almost 70–80. I have also seen that the next transport vessel that is on its way is speedboats, and ever new groups of vessels will come. That's good. It will not only give us free routes in Norway, but it will also open huge export markets for Norwegian producers of such vessels and such technologies. And then finally, we're fine, but we're not perfect. We have to extend, and we have to be more impatient. Let me also give an example here: between Florø and Måløy there is now a ready to get started on a hydrogen pilot, but things are a little stuffy. The public is here on the defensive, and the time goes on and on and on. Here we need to get ahead of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e982	Thank you first to the interpellant, who has an commitment both to the emission down and to the possibilities that this transition creates, and it's an commitment that I share. How we get rid of our transport sector is an important issue, and it's important for several reasons. This is of course important because we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and meet the great challenge of our time. It is also important because using both requirements and purchasing power can drive and drive innovation – and more than that: we create jobs and new industries. New and greener technologies and knowledge are being developed that can be processed in Norway and exported to the world. It's good for Norway and good for the world. Much has happened since the previous red-green government initiated the first electric ferry over the Sognefjord – also in Sogn and Fjordane, between Lavik and Oppedal – and it is very happy to see all these new initiatives that we are now seeing along our entire coast, on zero-emission solutions in the maritime sector. The representative Olve Grotle described a number of things that happen within a very small geographical area in a very nice constituency – there must also be a few words in this room – but fortunately we have several of these clusters, and there are also a lot of other places in the country. Then it is important that municipalities, county councils and state support during the transition we are in. Purchasing power is one of several tools we have, and it is important that municipalities and county councils do not remain standing with all the costs and the use of resources associated with this transition. Then we quickly end up in the situation that the representative Leirtrø described close to the ferry uprising. On the contrary, the State must be an active party, as the budgetary agreement provides, and support and contribute to the development of municipalities and county municipalities. And then, since it was an interpellation from the Right, I have to be allowed to say that the economy of the county councils and municipalities means something in this context. The central party – Labour Party government increases transfers to municipalities and counties by 2.5 billion. kr. It helps to give a room for action; it is involved and gives municipalities and county municipalities muscles to support during initiatives related to the green shift. It's good for the climate, and it's good for innovation, value creation and employment along our entire coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e995	No debate on a ferry without all the representatives from Sogn and Fjordane being on the pulpit during the debate, so that tradition we're going to try to hold. I would like to thank both the inter-pellant and the Council of State for being with and putting the theme on the agenda in a good way. Because it's an important theme. In these times, when we talk about a lot of the challenges and the problems associated with the green shift and the big and fast changes we're going through now in winter, this is an example of how great possibilities the green shift triggers, and of how big, positive changes have happened in a short time. We shall not go back further than until 2015 until the first test sections started operating with electric vessels, both ‘Beffen’ in Bergen and ‘Ampere’ over Sognefjorden. Then it took three years for the first whole-electric ferry collaboration in Norway to come into operation. In my home municipality, daring Eid, and the neighbouring municipality Gloppen in Nordfjord, with «Lote-Anda», and now, almost four years later, we know that by 2022 there will be 71 whole electric ferries operating in Norway. It's a huge change in an incredibly short time. I think the fewer had imagined how fast these changes started, and they've done it because the public agencies have challenged the market, and the market seems to have turned around and ready to make solutions that are now the new standard across Norway. When we get to speedboats, which many people have been in, this is going to be a big Norwegian export product. So what's important now in future if we're going to keep the pressure on this? One is of course that the State is a demanding orderer and not least ensures that the county councils will be involved and set up when the county councils are to order new ferries and have a quick boat offer. I hope and also have good faith that the Council of State here will take the staf stick further, which he has received from previous governments. The left has been a driver by putting in place a green shipping tool. The impending Minister of the Environment, Ola Elvestuen, put in place the first Green Shipping Action Plan in 2019. We have had a strong increase in Enova's means of green shipping, and we have now also been given notice of deadlines for introducing requirements for low and zero emission solutions for both ferries and speedboats. For me, the new government seems to want to follow this up, that both deadlines are fixed, and that one is clear about financial obligations. That's important, and that's what we're coming from Stortinget's side to follow closely. At the same time, one must say that it requires not only money, but also political will and desire to do so at all levels, both in the state and beyond in the county communities. I think it's a little interesting to see how different two or so states like Hordaland and Nordland are when it comes to the conversion of the ferry. Hordaland, no Westland, has our offensive, has led, has tough environmental requirements and has made it active. In Northern Ireland, and in part also in Troms and Finnmark, we know that this work has come very short. The state has not had very different economic conditions from the state, but it has different political will to drive this forward. I am asking that the Minister for Transport and his colleague in the Labour Party-Center Party government at national level now give to his colleagues, who are in charge, for example. Nordland states, that it requires political will to do this at all levels. The left will be a driving force for this all over the world, but it also requires will and ‘goods’ to achieve it, combined with good state support schemes and framework conditions. It requires that we keep this warm, and that the Minister of Transport and everyone else are clear about their demands and expectations for the county. I also hope that the Minister for Transport now sits down with Westland to see what can be done to get the first hydrogen pilots on the coast of Westland started. I know Westland County is now ready for that. Thank you for a good debate so far. This will be an important work to follow on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1010	I will continue where the representative Bjørlo dropped the roof, in Northernland, my home country. He's absolutely right. He's absolutely right that we've been too short, and the county council in Northern Ireland has to look at that. What I want to draw attention to in this debate is the ferry link between Bodø and Lofoten, which is not municipal. It provides some insights and lessons for national policies in the field we are discussing in the Chamber today. It was a demanding decision for the Solberg government when they finally chose to impose hydrogen ferries on that route. There were alternatives to biogas, but in the context of technological and industrial development, the extension of such a provision could be seen. It has had enormous ring-effects in the power and industrial districts of Northern Ireland. In the sea, an international industrial giant, Gen2 Energy, is coming in with huge plans for hydrogen production. In Glomfjord, the municipality of Meløy already has the soil for a hydrogen plant, and Yara also looks at the possibility of ammonia as a next step from what they do on the island of Her Island. In Narvik, Aker has plans for a staggering 50 billion. kr, where hydrogen production will be included. In Narvik, Teco has also established itself in 2030 for the production of hydrogen fuel cells for maritime navigation. We see that when governments cooperate with industry, we get an active industrial policy that works. These actors also look at the elimination of hydrogen in other modes of transport, such as the Nordlandsbanen and the aviation sector. How does the Støre government meet this development? Well, by saying that we're going to have a principal hydrogen production company and then create uncertainty among the private actors who want to provide hydrogen for shipping in Northern Ireland. Fortunately, thanks to the questioning institute in this room, it has been explained that the Minister of Economic Affairs admits that the reception has been shared. The type of state capitalism in which the main driving force is development rather than the working together of private and state actors, for which we have a long tradition in Norway, is not a good model. I would encourage the government to pursue an active and wise industrial policy, look at the cooperation between private actors and state decisions and follow in the footsteps of the Solberg government and look at the example in Northern Ireland, see the example of the link Bodø-Lofoten, and also in the next round look at ammonia, which is also a very interesting energy carrier.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1024	I also want to thank the interpellant. I also have to be allowed to thank the previous interpellant, because I forgot when I was there last. Thank you for a very good initiative and an interpellation that is really on the agenda of everyone. I would also like to thank the Facebook group that was created in my own home country, More and Romsdal, the Holiday uprising, which got 25 000 members only in a short time. It focuses on many things, including: departures, holiday materials, quality, and it is important. Then I also come up with what is now a topic, and there are greenhouse gas emissions and climate-neutral ferries and speedboats. It is incredibly important, and in my home country, More and Romesdal, the county municipality has our future. They have invested in their supply requirements that there should be zero-emission ferries, and then we see that battery ferries have been a large part of it. In More and Romesdal we also have great traditions of building ferries, and when technology demands, the entire West Coast is good at it. The vacations in our state are the same as trains in the Inland. For us, this means a lot, and it is good that the government and the minister now — including with their answers here — are forward-looking and want to stimulate and bet on getting zero-emissions. Whether it's a battery, hydrogen, ammonia, or if we can get something else -- I don't think the business will be likely to be good and will be able to join, just the state is helping to stimulate county councils and others to contribute. A connection with which I am very well known in my own municipality of origin is Vestnes–Molde. It's a European road. There were some ferries installed while waiting for electric ferries to arrive, and what I thought was a little special to look at, was an old ferry that arrived while waiting for a new one to be built and delivered, and the battery tower, or charging tower, was completely black out of the exhaust. It was an old ferry, probably from the early 1990s. It shows what an amazing development it has been when one sees that a charging tower is completely soothed. So there is no doubt that in the efforts and developments that have been taking place along the coast, as it was called, from Sogn and Fjordane, Møre and Romsdal and along the trode layer coast, along the entire west coast and the north coast, there have been forward-looking people who want to contribute to a development in the right direction. And then I'm very happy that in government we have now signaled through the Hurdal platform that there should be a bet on the county municipalities. The county economy is unlikely to be important in order for them to develop their pathways, but also their ferries, because much of this connection is governed by the county municipalities. So it's incredibly important that we now just give gas. The will that this government now refers to helping and supporting the county councils, as well as their own projects, and to bet on ferries, and that this should now become a larger state part, I am very pleased. I thank you again for the interpellant's initiative on such an important matter as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1045	I thought that since all these ferries have been talking, I must also say something. I use ferries pretty much all the time. What has been a bit of a challenge for the connection I use is that when we got new ferries in 2015, there were ferries that didn't work. You would have done what you had been told about, you would have such so-called zero-emission ferries, but the ferries didn't work for us. So what happened then was that we were put almost 30 years back in time, and it was totally horrible. The last ferry we had, worked like just that, went back and forth, was our umbilical cord. We were totally dependent on having such a umbilical cord. It went in all sorts of weather. When the planes didn't leave, the ferry went. Then we got this gas ferry. I tend to say to people that it is not so careful what the ferry goes on, as long as it goes. It's the most important thing. What's a little bit of a point here is, how can you fix the mistakes that are made? Obviously, the county council has not been able to get good enough tenders when this offer has been made. How do you get it fixed? Is it the case that those who are totally dependent on the holiday offer should only have it until the tender is completed? Usually it's ten years. Some of the problem is that when things get a little bad – and it’s very often where I live, canonically weather – it’s not power enough. There is not enough power in the engines, so you don't dare walk with the ferry, but leave it alone. I don't know if this is something I should say in this room, but it has been very bad for us to get so-called zero emission ferries. We would like to have the old ferries, which we knew went and had drag etc. when it was bad weather, and with which we were very satisfied. So when you make such offers and tell them how to do things, it might have to be followed up, so that the county doesn't put the communities that get these ferries in a crazy situation. There must be a right to a right to change the offer. The infrastructure we have is too bad now, and I don't see my poor advice in terms of doing anything about it until four years. Then it's not sure that there are so many people left here, because we now see that when the trails are full of fish, they don't get a take-off, and if the take-off is exposed for maybe 24 hours, the fish might be damaged. So here you might have to look at what kind of possibilities you have to fix the mistakes that are being made. That may be my message in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1054	Thank you for participating today. I think all those who have spoken have contributed to the debate. That's what I thought happened, so thank you for that. I must say I have great respect for the fact that this is a large area to cover. In fact, both the Minister of State for Local Affairs, the Minister for Industry, the Minister for Climate and Environment and the Minister for Finance were to be here in the Chamber. Now it is our own state council in our fraction, the transport committee, that has been delighted to conduct this debate. We appreciate it very much, but I have great respect for the fact that both county councils and industrial development as well as energy systems and tax systems are being discussed. It intervenes in hydrogen strategy, development of our clusters, and many thousands of jobs in the marine industry. What we now do with speedboats and ferries, can be converted to the short-seat fleet, to the offshore fleet, and to the breeding fleet, and the technology can spread into the world—unlikely exciting! Sitting government has a great responsibility now to carry out the important work that the Solberg government started. It owes us the climate, and it owes us our ship's industry. In the future, it is now important that the government really shows that they will put the will behind the agreement that was made with SV. I feel that there is a certain difference between what the State Council of the Labour Party says here from the pulpit, and that representative from the Labour Party of the Stortinget says. I heard the Council say that it's not just the technology to limit whether we're going to do this, it's also the economy. I'm not sure SV had the same opinion when they went into the comparison with the sitting government when this is the case. It's said that county councils get more money. We'll see if they can use them for green shipping, or if they have to use the money for reversals and other priorities of this government in the Hurdal platform. We need to get an overview of the routes and purchases that may be covered by the scheme as soon as possible. We have to challenge the business community to respond to the order, because they have previously shown us how to fix the frames, and they answer, and the business community answers to deliver what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1069	I would also like to thank you for an interesting debate. I think there have been many good posts. It shows that in this area, at least to a large extent, there is quite a political consensus that there are important commitments here. This government has said very clearly in the Hurdal platform that we should bet on zero emissions and low emissions. It's also been reinforced by Storting's treatment, and there seems to be a lot of agreement in this room that that's the direction we're going in. We promise to be offensive to it in the future. So it's the way that other people have been involved, that this government is pursuing a comprehensive ferry policy. We want the offer to be organised for ordinary people, that it should be a cheap enough offer and a good offer to the users in the districts. That's why we've gone in and reduced the ferry prices, and we have further ambitions in that area. As far as many people are concerned, it is clear that the ferries and boats you replace with zero-emission solutions must of course work. It's like the floor plank. It must be technology that works. We need a technology-neutral approach to having zero emissions or low emissions as a solution, and then the market will have to develop solutions we're going to bet on. But we know what it is to a large extent -- it's electrification, and it could be hydrogen, which is also mentioned here today. I think Norway is good at electrification. The story has been shown on the car side, and we have gradually become good at it on the ferry side. On the ferry side, perhaps unlike on the car side, there are opportunities for industrial and technological development that also do something more for Norwegian society than just electrifying. Here's a lot of exciting opportunities ahead of us. Next is aviation, where there's an opportunity room to electrify and create amazing things that could provide industrial development and value creation in Norway if we were to bet. That's what we're going to do, and I also see there's a lot of agreement in this room. So just a little clarification: in the previous debate I said something related to passenger growth and these calculated theoretical grounds for savings on competitive outsourcing. There it is important for me to make it clear that, of course, it was based on growth also for direct contracts, but only in line with population growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1084	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1102	It was well explained in the introduction to the lack of skilled workers that we are going to have in the future, and it is thoughtful that the NHO reports that six out of ten companies lack people with the right skills. For business throughout the country, there is only one concern that lies far ahead – the need for skilled labour. Norwegian industry is in a desperate need of competence at all levels. This means that competence policy will become even more important in the years to come. If we're going through the green shift that we're now in the middle of, competence becomes crucial. Norway needs more skilled workers in both the private and public sectors now and in the future. Fortunately, the arrows point in the right direction, but still important work remains. Today, therefore, I invite the Council of State and the Stortinget to a dialogue on how the government will follow up the efforts of the Solberg government to continue to increase recruitment to vocational education programmes and to ensure that even more people complete their professional or bachelor letters. Because although more of those now in high school are starting on a vocational study programme, we see that we need even more young people applying for this. We therefore need to continue to make the professions more attractive, to ensure that apprentices are given apprenticeships and to ensure that fewer fall from high school. Before 2013, it was a challenge for too few to choose a profession and that what students learned at school was too little relevant to the way they were going to work. There were too many people who didn't get a place to learn, and too many who didn't finish their education. The job of the right-hand government has therefore been aimed at getting more people to choose a profession. This initiative has led more than half of the applicants to higher education now choosing a professional course. This has resulted in a record of learning places and nine out of ten having completed their apprenticeships. That's good news for the students and AS Norway, and it shows that we're on the right track. An important part of the work has been to make education more relevant to the labour market and to work for more practical education, including: through the introduction of a new, practical and labour-oriented crafts subject as their own choice in secondary school. This shall also provide students with a better basis for choosing a higher education programme. It has also been a clear objective to improve the content of the professions in close cooperation with the social partners. Now the students get previous specialization in the subject in which they take education. To become a carpenter, you simply need to learn more about the timber trade and less about everything else. It has also been important to give priority to the number of apprenticeships, and enough places of learning are essential to ensure that more students complete their education. For this reason, the right of government made it more attractive to recruit apprentices by increasing the apprenticeship allowance, requiring apprentices to submit public tenders and introducing a separate labelling scheme for apprenticeships. In the last few years, we've scored all the scores in the number of classrooms registered since the measurements started. In 2019, about 80 pst. Study space versus 70 pst. in 2013. We must continue to make education more relevant to working life and ensure that even more students are prepared for vocational education through secondary school. That's why I hope we can talk more about both primary school reform and the further work to make it easier for everyone, including good adults, to fill in skills and maybe take a letter at work. While recruiting apprentices, we also have to work to make it easier to build on their education. From a political point of view, we can do a lot, but I also believe that both business, society and we, who are actors in society, have a lot to contribute. As a daughter and now mother, I take care of myself to have a lot of good advice on the way, as I approach an age where I will soon advise my own children. A timely question is whether I'm fit for it. Business also often takes self-criticism on their own ability to advertise their own career paths. They have an important job telling about needs and opportunities. There are no simple answers to these questions, but I am absolutely sure that we need to talk more about the counselling service, the professional choice of education and at the same time challenge our own attitudes – like politicians, mothers and fathers. And we need to talk more about the dimensioning of the profession in the counties and the important interaction between school and business. I look forward to an important debate on this topic, and I am sure that we can find many common points and together continue the good work that has started.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1132	I share Hagerup's commitment to the higher education professions. Professionals are an important resource for our country, and we need a lot more of them in the years to come. The government is therefore concerned that we both train enough skilled workers, and that we train good skilled workers. We need to have high quality training in school and business. We also need a job-adapted training offer, and we need to have apprenticeships for everyone who wants to learn. The government has already announced on the Hurdal platform that we will implement a powerful lift for the professions. It begins by strengthening practical learning in school, improving vocational training and learning time and increasing efforts for serious conditions in the workplace. The government will strengthen the competence and quality of all parts of the training. Vocational and vocational training shall qualify as a place of learning and shall be completed by a letter of formal qualification. The preparatory training programme shall qualify for higher education. The government will follow up and further concreteise the keynote on the implementation reform. We now see that about half of the students who are applying for secondary education choose a professional course. That's a very good starting point. Nevertheless, we know that completion is somewhat lower in the professional field than in the preparatory programmes. We also know that not everyone who chooses a profession comes out with professional competence. There are several reasons for this. Finally, someone completes their study skills, someone doesn't get a place to study, someone spends longer time completing, and someone doesn't finish at all. I mean, the previous government failed those students who didn't get a lesson, because it's done too little over time to make everyone qualified and safe for everyone. Then I agree with Mr Hagerup that we must ensure that more people complete higher education and that more people complete their professional skills. But we can't just focus on the students completing, we also have to make sure that the education course has a quality that makes the students really qualified for the apprenticeship. There are a number of things that indicate that there is still a gap between the demand for work and business, and what students go from school to apprenticeship with competence. I want to ensure better compliance here in dialogue with the parties. We need to know the need for which subjects we need more professionals in, what job and business needs in each subject, and what each student should be able to do more about. In 2020, almost 7,000 unskilled applicants stood. At the same time, we know that the chances of completing a course or a bachelor's degree are increasing for those who are getting a course. The government will therefore start by strengthening the work of securing a place for everyone who wants to take a letter. We have increased the budget by 113.5 million. kr in relation to the Solberg Government's draft budget, from 256.5 million. NOK 370 million. kr. By doing so, we will strengthen both the qualification and the dissemination to the place of learning, and we will strengthen the follow-up of the students to the company. We will do this together with the social partners and with the county councils, to which Hagerup's representative correctly points, is important to both conveying qualified students and mobilising enough learning places. I have noticed that the experience in the county councils is that Professionals at work is a popular and sought-after scheme. It gives adults the opportunity to obtain a letter at the same time as they are in regular paid employment. In this way, we ensure life support during training. There has been a great demand for the scheme, and the county councils received 46 million. kr extra on the state budget in 2020 and 2021 to offer more adults Professional letters at work. The government continues the grant to the county councils to stimulate increased use of the scheme. In conclusion, I would like to repeat that both I and the government are concerned that everyone should be given the opportunity to complete and become truly qualified for the advanced training they have started. Not least, it is a central objective that all those who wish to complete their professional skills should be given the opportunity, with skills relevant to the labour market, and the security of the place of learning. I look forward to a further debate on an important topic here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1155	Thanks for the good answer, and it was reassuring – I guess I knew it too – that we share the goal of completing more. I was especially pleased that the Council of State pointed out that one should work closely with the business community, because the interaction between the states like the school owners and the municipalities, businesses and politicians is incredibly important. One must respect the rapid change in industry, and it requires greater cooperation between educational institutions and industry, both in primary and secondary education, because there is a great deal going on here. One might wonder whether workshops in schools should be empty after three o'clock, or whether one can have a greater interaction between industry, business and schools and use them a little more about each other. Then we have the vocational teachers, whom I want to highlight as important factors in this work. Perhaps we need more from the industry that builds on pedagogics and can become good vocational teachers in the future, and perhaps more professional teachers also need regular support in the business world, so that a greater interaction between them can be achieved. As a politician, I have noticed that a lot of people talk about raising the status of professionals. Then someone told me that while one is doing it, one also says that the professions have a low status. It's a little bit thoughtful. In Rogaland, a job has been targeted by professionals for decades, and there is a high status. It's because they've been working with business and talking to the business community about their needs, and the training of skilled workers has become a very good direction. It is a result of trust, interaction, competence and willingness to succeed, and they say that dimensioning has been crucial. The population may need to better identify the need for apprentices and to increase the size of the supply based on it in dialogue with the business community. This was also something Stein Lier-Hansen was out there and said in December, that the solution to get more apprentices into the apprenticeship is simply to dimension the offer according to the needs. The difficult exercise will just be able to get the student to choose between his or her top three priority choices at the same time. But I think you should look a little bit at Rogaland, which is so clear that the reason one has done so well in this work is that business must be leading. And that also gives you jobs at the other end. Then we are back to the fact that students may need to get a little more taste of education and get more practical training earlier. This is why the reform of high school is becoming incredibly important. I could have said a lot about the consulting service. Maybe it doesn't have to be teachers who are advisers, maybe there's another kind of role that has a greater knowledge of the profession, maybe there's someone else. But there is no doubt that there is a need for more coherence between high school, high school and business. I could also have said a lot about gender balance and that one tells about feminine and masculine choices and all of this, but it just shows that this theme has a lot of shades, and we have a lot to talk about the next hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1172	I'm very glad that the example of Rogaland was drawn out, because Rogaland is obviously a state that does a lot of good on this whole topic, but Rogaland is also something as rare as a little unscrupulous state that boasts of itself. I think there's something more of the country's counties should do; boast of the good things you get in terms of vocational training and cooperation with business. I believe that some of the key is in previous contact between the individual student and the individual company, that the first year of higher education, usually as early as possible, is already coming into contact with a potential employer. I think it will also help to solve one of the biggest challenges we see statistically: that boys with a minority background, even when we control it against grades, have more difficulty in getting a place than a lot of other groups. I also believe that the representative Hagerup is about parents and advice and the advice our young people get in life choices they take during their teens is one of the keys. I wish we were able to show more clearly what opportunities lie in taking a professional course, what salary you get in very many subjects, which, for some subjects, are higher than what you can get if you take an even longer education. I think we have a lot to do when it comes to contacting the individual advisor and business, so that you understand more about which industries you guide the students into. I also think it is important to show you what opportunities you have with a professional letter to fill in your skills later. Our colleges do an enormously important job, and showing that even if you take a professional course, you have the opportunity to learn your whole life, fill up with competence, raise yourself to the next level and make progress on the basis of your profession. I think that's important. It is not the thing that has been said so far in this debate, which I disagree with, and I look forward to working closely with the Stortinget in the future to make sure that even more people choose a profession, and that more people become qualified for a professional letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1185	Since we're so modest, I'm not going to bring out all the amazing things we do at our 32 high school. I'll leave that in this context. But I'm very pleased with Mr. Hagerup's question in the interpellation of the Council of State. It's important and necessary. She points to important results from a lack of professional involvement over eight years and refers to the Central Statistical Office, that in 2035 we will lack 90,000 skilled workers. There is nothing that has arisen now, but it has arisen for many years, and it is a major challenge. If there's something we need, it's professionals. I'm a friend myself, a graphic artist. It's a subject that's soon gone. But it is very important to have professionals who can work, because it strengthens the competitiveness of industry, and it is important to have professionals in the public sector, which strengthens the quality of our welfare services. It's an important investment for the whole country. That is why I am pleased that the Støre administration has already taken important steps to put practical-esthetic subjects as strongly on the agenda as it has done. It's absolutely necessary if we want to recruit more students who want to go in that direction, from primary school and into high school. This is something NHO and LO have pointed out over several years, that we will lack important professionals in key areas if we do not take more drastic action. More practical school learning, where children and young people are required to experience practical skills and skills, needs to be given greater emphasis. Today we had a hearing on the reform of high school. I think everyone at the hearing pointed out that if we are to recruit more students into the profession, we also need to facilitate better through more practical learning in high school. In the Hurdal platform, the government has determined that we must have a clear strengthening of practical learning in school, and we also showed that, as the Council of State said, with the strengthening of the year's budget, the budget for 2022, in this area. When I saw that 77 million. kr was now awarded to secondary schools that have applied for equipment, I must say that it must have been very well received. I see that my old school, Meldal high school, also got a million. You had a full page look about how important it was. I was visiting them a year ago, and the turning machine I was standing on in 1976 is actually still there, today. This suggests that it is important to have new and modern equipment adapted to today’s and tomorrow’s business. It is necessary to provide schools with this kind of equipment and competence, and that is why I am very pleased that this budget was strengthened in those areas. I've been to Selbu high school, and there I think 80 pst. by students now in the field of vocational training. Why? Well, it's because there's close cooperation between high school, the host municipality and local business, and not least there's a training office that follows the students at school into the business community and makes sure they get into a classroom. That is why it is also important that the Workers' Party has now invested in an apprenticeship guarantee to ensure a learning place for students. The previous government proposed, inter alia: that students who did not receive an apprenticeship should receive a letter of formal qualifications at school — a letter that is not requested by the business community, which is not requested by the public, which is not something that the students themselves want, and which is not something the school itself wants to facilitate. To have even heavier theories for the students who are already struggling is not the way to provide better recruitment in this area. The emphasis on professional and practical subjects is important. Then you have to have comfort, you have to have equipment, and the students have to feel that they know mastering in school everyday. Mestring in school everyday life also means increased well-being for both students, home, business and school. We see that there are many students today who are struggling with school, but fortunately, the dropout has gradually become smaller. But the dropout doesn't start in high school, it starts after all in high school – in the first few years. That's why it's so important that we now have a government that is committed to a reform of high school that makes it possible for a manager and ability to feel that a master of school life as early as possible. This will help to increase the recruitment of professionals in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1202	Education has never been more important than it is now. The big differences in today's society are between those who have a job to go to, and those who don't. The key to participation in working life is to complete and pass a planned race in high school. The county council as a school owner has a major and important task of adapting the provision of secondary education to the needs of society. I think it's the county council's most important task. There is a great shortage of skilled labour throughout the country, and it is the responsibility of the county council to ensure that young people are given the opportunity to choose the right path forward in life. The needs of employment and industry must be far more important than they are at present for the dimensioning of secondary school services. Lighting and launching offers in secondary schools in disciplines and industries where there are no apprenticeships and jobs and waiting at the other end is closing the students in a race they do not get out of. It is irresponsible and contributes to young people falling out of work and to a lack of skills for business. We all have a responsibility to contribute to knowledge about the education system and about the needs of society, whether we are politicians, parents, aunts or neighbors. But it is essential that the county council takes its responsibilities seriously. Secondary schools are important regional development actors in the districts, but the role of regional development operator must never be weighted to such an extent as to compromise the quality of the provision of pupils. Thus, the dimensioning of secondary school services must be based on the needs of the economy and the labour market, regional advantage and with a view to their overall supply. So that's how, as the Council of State was about to say, this has to be done in cooperation with the social partners. Here, vocational training students play a very important role, and our hope is that their role will be given even greater importance in the coming period. No learning places can be adopted either. Learning places need to be made available from the business community, and the business community in Norway is very good at providing apprenticeships, but there must be a need for labour in those industries. Therefore, it is easy to talk about an apprenticeship guarantee, but we must not forget that in the public school system, we need to facilitate the provision of training courses in the directions in which industry needs labour, because there are also educational places. We also need much greater cooperation between business and school. Perhaps schools have to go to the workplace more often, and we have to have teachers in school who host business. Karen Blixen said, "School isn't life, and life isn't after school; it's the school that's supposed to be after life." Today's students are tomorrow's capital, and they are our common future. They deserve school owners – i.e. county municipalities and municipalities – who work long-term and consciously for quality and implementation, for the best possible use of resources, and not least for the proper dimensioning of high school services. In this way, they help young people to choose between education that provides a place of learning and a place of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1221	For the Centre Party it has always been and will still be incredibly important to ensure a professional lift. We need more and more hands that want and want to contribute and create values to our society in the future. In recent years, it may seem like we've had a urge to have as many as possible a Bachelor's degree or a Master's degree. At the same time, we see that it is the most practical students who often fall away. It's stupid when business needs more skilled workers. We need engineers, but we also need those who are going to work in the health sector, those who are going to build roads and houses, and our restaurant and food industry is screaming for people. It's a little interesting to hear the Right show list that they've gone to the front for such big bets on the profession. The reality is that a cross-political increase has largely been adopted and imposed on the government to work on new curricula, status raising, securing vocational teachers, etc., without this being their own taboos to a great extent. For the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, there is a lot we want to tackle. The training of future skilled workers starts already in the first class and must be an essential part of Norwegian school throughout the education system. Then we have to build the school so that students are not primarily prepared for an academic career but are also recognised for practical skills, and that the school prepares them for and motivates them for practical education and professions. The Hurdal platform states that we will strengthen practical learning in school, including: through a reform of secondary schools. All secondary school students shall be offered a job and at least one practical elective subject. The practical-esthetic subjects should be given more emphasis in teacher training. They are to bet on, and we have already started this through this year's government budget. It is also necessary to strengthen the advisory service in secondary school. At the same time, we need to ensure that all those who start a professional education are able to complete it. Then we all have to secure an apprenticeship. That's why we're very happy that we've allocated 113 million. kr in addition to the Solberg government budget for this particular work. In the future, we will also make greater demands for the use of apprentices and improve the arrangements we have. In order for more students to qualify for these apprenticeships, it is important that they receive good enough training at the schools in advance. They must then be trained on the relevant equipment. A tight state economy combined with the lack of investment from the Solberg government has resulted in one in four professional teachers thinking they were lacking the equipment needed to learn their subjects, according to a study by the Education Association in 2020. This isn't good enough. So the government now distributes 77 million. kr to the schools to be used on just such equipment. For example, my secondary school, Gauldal, now gets 2.3 million. they may use equipment to train future skilled workers. Lifting vocational schools will also be an important part of the work for more people to choose from. The reality today is that many of the professionals and many of the young people who want to choose education are not aware that they can be based on a professional letter of higher vocational education. The centre party has been working for many years to make this a more recognised offer and to step up the number of posts in the sector. We'll keep doing that. Overall, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have great ambitions for this field in the years to come. If more students want to become a skilled worker, it has to be seen as a real alternative for more. Practical skills then have to be recognised, opportunities have to be strengthened and they have to be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1240	I would like to thank you for your contributions. Here we should have talked all day, so fortunately we have a reform of high school we're going to work on. We could also have said a lot about the innovations that have facilitated a little more practical learning, and I could have stood here and argued and discussed with the representative Asphjell about who has done the most. But I choose not to – I choose to talk about my own heart cause, which is also a little bit about putting the representative Asphjell in place, in a slightly different way. It is simply high time – yes, actually overtime – to put myself and other Norwegian mothers and fathers in place. Uncles, aunts, grandparents and neighbors can also be on that list. For this collective error that some direction of study is more valuable than others, there has been too long and we still hear about young people who are counseled by grades. That's the same thing I heard in 1996, when I chose general science as my direction. It sent me out for three years in high school where I still had no direction after finishing. German elementary education was the rescue plan before a pregnant dog gave me the pretext I needed to jump off. Then I went from the role of cashier to the store manager, and later I took higher education while I was at work – because I had to become something. Many years later, wiser both by experience and age, I see that the possibilities were much greater than what I could grasp at that age. It was a whirlwind of choice and only a few I was familiar with. I needed good advice, and I needed knowledge about the choices. We must therefore have a high level of ambition for counselling and ensure that even more people taste different professions throughout the school cycle. But it is also very much about our attitudes – and our role as mother and father, neighbor, sister and brother. In Education we could read about Luke and the mother of Guri, who thought that TIP was for such boys who grew up in the workshop and did not come in elsewhere. Luke had abilities and resources, not least in the social field, and Guri was afraid he would throw these away. Fortunately, Guri's prejudice was shamed, and she changed her mind. A survey by the NHO shows that six out of ten parents are not aware that there are more than 150 professions to choose from by taking a professional course. But look and think – we will. That's what we have to end with. Because it's about smart educational choices for the future. It's about the business and industry getting the skills they need, and our young people training themselves for a job. Today, we have raised a small proportion of the opportunities offered by the professions. We're not even close to rasping on the side of it. There are many actors who contribute to this interaction, and I am pleased that those who have spoken to now share the intention that we need to have more interaction between the actors, and we need to talk more to get to the better solutions. Together, we have to lift up and show the possibilities for those who are going to make the difficult choices. With that, I would like to thank you for an inspiring and engaging debate and hope we get new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1257	I am very familiar with the descriptions of the representative Hagerup. I wanted to be a cook myself, but I was told that I shouldn't be, because I had too good grades. Later I wanted to be a police officer, but I got diabetes, and then I wanted to be a teacher, but I had too bad a math character. On the other hand, I ended up here with you, so it also shows that it can go very well, even with me who went on a study-specializing basis without me really should have done it. Anyway, I think it's a very good point that those advices that a lot of our young people get are based on some prejudices that are not at all true. Vocational training offers great opportunities to work in exciting industries. It offers opportunities for professional fill-in and also good pay, so there is no reason for our young people not to be advised to take a professional letter. Then there are several people who have been involved in this with the equipment situation in the professional field. It's true that we distributed 77 million. This is far from enough, because the situation is precarious in many places. But then I was especially happy to read in Aura Avis that they at Sunndal high school had received NOK 880,000, which was to be used on a very special machine. I am very happy to travel to Sunndal high school and to look at the very special machine. I think one of the challenges we face as politicians is to think through the academia that takes place at many levels throughout our education sector. It's well thought, it's a desire to make demands and raise quality. I believe, however, that the school for very many of our children and young people is becoming too snowy and too theoretical. That is why I am pleased that more people are involved in this with secondary school reform and practical learning. I think practical learning will make it possible for several different types of kids to succeed through school. I think that will lead to more people learning more, and I also think that more people will be introduced to working in a practical way in the past. It's an important part of learning that you can learn in more ways than by sitting still with a book. Then it is important to say that the county councils do a formidable job in this area in terms of developing the different subjects and working closely with the schools and with business and working life. There are almost no limits to the number of different variants of projects available for both recruiting more professionals and providing apprenticeships for all. But we have to do more. Finally, I believe that getting more skilled workers is about – first, on the school side – making sure that the school is a place where all our children and young people can be. But on the other hand, we need a large-scale work-life cleaning where the dismantling of the labour-environment law that the bourgeois government has provided for over eight years stops, and where it is more age-wise to go to work in several industries. Being a tradesman and going to work are more than the road to the job. It's also about having decent relationships every single day when one makes an effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1272	The debate on substance is then closed. 6ths over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1290	The report of the Grandberget Committee entitled ‘You’ has received a lot of attention and has created a lot of involvement in the kindergarten sector. It's not for no reason. The proposals presented concern 140 000 kindergarten children and nearly half a million people who have a close relationship with a private kindergarten, either as children, parents, employees or owners. The majority of the sample provides for grips that will dramatically change the basis for the operation of private kindergartens. It will also have dramatic consequences for society. When the Council of State in the Class struggle yesterday was clear that she would tighten the rules in the kindergarten sector to strangle the big chains, I am concerned that it is the small, single kindergartens that are first hit. These kindergartens do not have a large economic buffer and depend on the safety and predictability of their operations. The consequence of what the Council of State calls for is the creation of an a and b layer in Norwegian kindergartens. The many attacks on private kindergartens are disturbing the sector, and there is no profit. When the budgetary unity between the government and the SV involves an investigation into how commercial operations can be phased out in different tax-funded welfare services and a separate zero profit model for each such sector, it is appropriate to call for caution. No children are alike, but no one should be able to treat them differently – nor should the municipalities. Municipalities should not be allowed to discriminate against children in private and municipal kindergartens by granting different grants. It will make it very demanding for private kindergarten owners to operate in the long term. Neither kindergarten chains nor individual private kindergartens will dare to invest in the renovation of the kindergarten, the lifting of skills for employees or better playgrounds if they risk losing income at the moment the political winds in the municipality turn around or the municipality needs to save money. In 2020, almost one out of three private kindergartens with deficits went, and feedback from the sector suggests that the figure was even higher in 2021. Private kindergartens receive the same allowance per child as municipal kindergartens. During the previous government, a staffing standard and a reinforced educational standard were introduced. It increases the quality of kindergartens and ensures that the money benefits the children. At the same time, it has significantly reduced the profits in the kindergarten sector in recent years. About 96 pst. employees of private kindergartens are paid on a fee basis. I do not mean by this debate to say that the legislation and funding of private kindergartens is flawless. Many suggest that today’s funding system is too complicated, and that several less isolated and ideal kindergartens are struggling financially without the benefit of economies of scale. In addition, the nursery sector is currently different from 20 years ago. There is a need for greater transparency and transparency, which is one of the reasons why the government of Solberg, among other things, is established national economic supervision in 2020. Today, every other child goes to a private nursery. Private kindergartens not only ensure that all children have a kindergarten; they also ensure diversity in the offer. The money we allocate to the nursery sector should go to the best of the children, but the best of the children is also about a diverse and high-quality nursery sector. Red-green game chooses to play 140 000 children's playgrounds. Right selects to set quality requirements. I would like the left side to use a little more energy to discuss how we can raise the quality of the offer in kindergartens, regardless of the form of ownership. The right will continue to impose strict requirements on staffing, the number of pedagogues, content, quality and orderly pay and working conditions in private kindergartens – while at the same time we will work to ensure that all children receive an equivalent and diverse range of services. The most important thing is that children do well in kindergarten, not who owns it. Safe kindergartens with employees who thrive at work, where children can expand and gain social experience and valuable learning through play, are one of the most important things that politicians can contribute to. Good kindergartens with competent employees are a valuable investment – for society and for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1321	Since 2014, the kindergarten groups have grown from 33 to 49 pst. of the places in 2019. At the same time, small kindergartens have increased, and more and more are bought up by large groups. At this rate, the groups will own half of the places in 2029. It does not contribute to diversity. On the contrary, it's a good picture of why it's high time to do something. There has been a regular debate over the last few years on the financial framework for private kindergartens. Reports ordered by the Ministry and various media releases clearly show that there have been great opportunities for kindergarten owners to make good money in both the operation and sale of kindergartens and kindergartens. I would like to remind the representative from the Right that it was the Solberg government that set up the Storberget Committee in connection with the treatment of the 2021 state budget. The majority asked the government to reduce a rapid selection, which included, among other things: would look at the financing of private kindergartens, including the possibility of loans in the Husbanken. The committee was set up in February 2021, had members from the KS, the PBL, the Works, the Federation of Education and the Trade Union and was led by the State Manager of the Inland, Knut Storberget. The committee delivered the «You are taken over» report on the financing of private kindergartens in June 2021. The report was sent to the public hearing and had a period of consultation by 1 October. The report has generated a lot of commitment, and we have received over 1,100 hearing replies. The committee was commissioned to present today’s financing system for private kindergartens and to assess the benefits and disadvantages of today’s system. The analyses should be based on the pre-existing knowledge base obtained by the Ministry and the welfare service committee investigation. The committee was also given the opportunity to make proposals for changes to legislation on the financing of private kindergartens. Both the Storberget Committee and the Welfare Service Committee confirm that the current funding system is adapted to a sector during the deployment phase. Changes in the system are needed now that the kindergarten sector is more or less fully developed and consists of a diversity of kindergarten actors. The Storberget Committee is divided into its recommendation on the changes that should be made to the financing system for private kindergartens. But the majority, consisting of five out of six members, propose a model whereby municipalities are given greater freedom to govern the sector than today. There is no doubt that the legislation on private kindergartens is not adapted to the sector as it appears today. In addition to the reports of the Storberget Committee and the Welfare Service Committee, the Ministry has sent a number of proposals for changes to the legislation on private kindergartens that have not yet been followed up. This gives us a good basis for further work both on the financing system for private kindergartens and on legislative changes. In the Hurdal platform, the government says that we need to have a clear and strict regulation for private kindergartens, one that ensures better democratic control and control of the kindergarten sector. The government will improve the environment for small private and ideal kindergartens and thus stop developments in which commercial groups and chains are increasingly owned by kindergartens. The government also wants to work on the proposals of the Storberget Committee. I look forward to coming back to Stortinget with concrete suggestions on how to solve this. But nevertheless, I would like to stress that the representative of the sector points out, namely, that there is concern in the sector, must be said to be completely natural when the point is to change the conditions so that we avoid the large groups buying up the small kindergartens. When we take action that doesn't necessarily make it possible to keep speculating in buying and taking profits, it's going to create noise -- and that's exactly what's the point. We have to make sure to seize the money we spend on kindergarten, work for our children, invest it back in kindergarten, and that we reach the goal that I feel the whole Storting has, that is, that the kindergarten sector is going to be diverse. It shall be possible to operate on a quality-based basis. Municipalities must have greater opportunity to influence the important welfare service of kindergarten is in their own municipality, and we need to provide funding that is fairer and does not treat different kindergartens as much as it does today, for the result of that we see in how the sector has evolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1349	Thank you to the Council of State for a good and committed post. I wish we could agree more, but the debate has shown that we agree that the money we allocate to the kindergarten sector should go to the best of the children, while we disagree on what we do in the best interests of the children when it comes to a diverse, high-quality kindergarten sector. At the same time, I am very pleased to hear the Council of State say that the government will contribute to the continued diversity of the kindergarten sector, and then I assume that the government will contribute to finding good solutions to care for single kindergartens. But I want to point out that we also need the chains. We need the chains as drivers of quality and also as part of the great diversity. We must not forget that it is the chains that have now purchased many of the small individual kindergartens that have wanted to sell. So the chains are an important part of the kindergarten diversity in Norway. It's been a long time since the kindergarten agreement, and it's obvious that society has changed a lot since then. Then it is also obvious, and we agree, that the funding system for the kindergarten sector needs to be reviewed. But the fact that the red-green parties at the time, when the kindergarten agreement was concluded, did not foresee the appreciation of the properties and provided a regulation for the handling of them, we cannot punish today's kindergarten owners for it. Too many of the values in the kindergarten sector are in the properties. When there is concern in the sector, it is that, yes, changes cause unrest and uncertainty. It is natural, but I would like to remind you that the government agreement concluded between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which points to phase-out – combined with great support for the very many radical proposals of the Storberget Committee – builds up under a turbulence that we are concerned about harming the kindergarten sector. We are committed to finding good solutions for a diverse kindergarten sector quite quickly, so that we get rid of the situation we can quickly end up in now: bankruptcies and individual kindergartens that want to sell, but where there is no one who wants to buy, because the prerequisite for operating is uncertain, and we do not know what future we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1360	I think this picture where small kindergartens are bought up by larger groups is an image that the funding of the small kindergartens may not be good enough. I believe that the representative of Jøns is interested in something important when she says that today's legislation may not have taken into account the speed and extent of the change in the sector. That's why I'm concerned that we get changes in place quickly, so that we're not left with just large groups when one day we get a better funding mechanism. From 2014 to 2019, the proportion of self-employed limited liability companies operating kindergartens fell from 24 p.m. to 13 pst. At the same time, large groups are growing. It is not an end in itself to say that we should have funding that does not benefit the large groups, but it is an objective in itself to have a diversity in the sector. It is not an end in itself that kindergartens should not be private, but it is an end in itself that private individuals should be diverse. That's why I'm also concerned that we get a regulation of the private kindergartens that gives legitimacy to the population in terms of the allocation of public money, but I'm concerned that we get regulations that allow us to make sure that the small and single ones get along. I am concerned that we have rules for the sector that allow money to be invested back in kindergartens, and I am concerned that municipalities are more able to participate and influence the development of a welfare offer that is so crucial than today. Today it is the case that the private kindergartens are approved for all time when they are first approved, and they can also receive support for all time. That means, in many municipalities where the children's pods go down, it's the municipal kindergartens that disappear when the children's pods get smaller. I think that challenges us on what opportunities we give the municipalities to buy up private kindergartens, if desired, and where that makes sense. It challenges us on how municipalities can participate and influence the funding of the private kindergartens, because it has a lot to say for the municipal budgets. And it challenges us all the time to remind ourselves that it is a goal to have a balance between who offers kindergartens, because both municipal and private kindergartens should be – and are – good for our kids and should be in the future as well. I'm absolutely sure this is not the last time we're discussing this in this room, and I'm also quite sure that when we sit down and start working on the legislative proposals and the arrangement of the funding system, there's a broad consensus in Stortinget on how we're going to solve these things in the future. But I'm still glad that there's more than me who appreciate that there's a little bit of speed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1375	Thank you to the representative, who is raising an important debate. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that our taxes and parental payments go to the best possible childcare facilities. I fully agree with my co-representative and former knowledge minister Jan Tore Sanner, who said in May 2018 that the profits in the private kindergartens make us have to look at the legislation again. It was said that the legislation is out of date. The feedback and investigations we now have show the same thing. The legislation is not adapted to the current situation, and we are not sure – and the legislation is not based on – that the money goes to the children. The regulation was made at a time when the sector was under development, now we are in a completely different situation. The numbers speak for themselves. Private chains are growing at the expense of diversity. The four largest commercial kindergarten chains now operate every three private kindergartens. In 2013, they operated every five private kindergartens. They grow and grow. With regard to the verbal decision that is being raised in the debate, that we want to explore our own zero-profit model, I think that the hearing that the Committee has had today on the financing of private kindergartens underpins this. The feedback we get is that the foundation may not be suitable as an organization for ideal kindergartens – that we need to look at how it is possible to organise kindergartens against the forms of grants we have. I think you should take it easy – that we are investigating how we can do this better and easier for private and ideal kindergartens, is for the benefit of everyone. Kindergartens make big profits for some private individuals. During 2019 and 2020, foreign investment funds purchased at least 238 baby garden buildings. In this way, the public finances billions of profits for private individuals. The law is out of date. For a long time, there has been a need to do something about the legislation. I believe it is critical that, despite repeated decisions in the Stortinget and a number of investigations and clear recommendations on the need for an up-to-date regulation, the Solberg government did not, however, promote legislative proposals for the Stortinget to ensure a clearer and more water-tight regulation that ensures that the money goes to what they should, namely the quality of the children. There are considerable variations in the sector. Some have large operating margins, while others go so far. The regulation and funding must take into account that we should have good kindergartens, whether they are individual, private, ideal, chain or public. Our starting point is that we should have good kindergartens for the children no matter how they are organized. We in the Workers' Party want private kindergartens, we want ideal kindergartens and we want public kindergartens, but we need to ensure that the money benefits the children and not in private pocket. We need to ensure that we set high standards of quality and that funding is included. I am so pleased that the Council of State is so clear that there is a need for changes in the legislation, and that the government is already working on the work that the Solberg government has slipped away, despite the fact that they received reports on reports that the need was out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1396	For many years I have had my children in what I consider to be the world’s best kindergarten. We've been taken care of, the dialogue's been good, and I've been sure my kids have been good and are around safe adults. Kinderhagen is public, which I have never really thought about before I became aware of the debate about private welfare – a debate that is too much about corporate form and those who run, rather than about the quality and diversity of the offer. It is, unfortunately, a debate characterized by ideology. Over the last few years, one sees that this debate has become increasingly acute, and it is thoughtful to see that SV has brought the government in a rather radical direction. One of the verbal proposals in the budget agreement states that the Storting asks the government to ‘establish by March 2022 a public body to determine how commercial operations can be phased out in different tax-funded welfare services’ — not about, but about, and what are different tax-funded welfare services. We are facing a future where we are growing older. It will make demands on our health and care sector, and in the same way that we had a kindergarten settlement, we might have to ask ourselves if we need a care settlement. It is then doubtful that many actors are now concerned about whether they go within or outside the definitions. Is a public, is a private, is a non-profit? I've met a lot of people who wonder about it. Now it's really the services we have to choose, and for AS Norway, it's a good thing that the welfare community gives us good services at a reasonable price, where we can choose. Government parties will monopolise more services and restrict competition from private actors. It will give us a worse offer. In fact, municipal and non-profit actors had not been able to ensure full child-care coverage alone without leading to large additional costs for society – everyone agrees – and competition in the kindergarten sector has lifted everyone. At the same time, it has given us a diversity and driven innovation. I agree that it may be difficult to compete, but it must be even more difficult to impose a monopoly? In the past, private actors were called the private sector. Today we talk about welfare professionals, a word that gives cold gusts back to a time we don't want to go back to. Anyway, there's a word that we've allowed to get root fixing. Why do we allow that when we should rather talk about good services and how we should do it? The truth is, we have a great need for welfare innovators to secure good services in the future. The left side will make it harder for private kindergartens to move on. It could be expensive for taxpayers, it could be a loss for the children, and not least unfair to the kindergarten owners and kindergarten teachers who thought they would be valued for the effort, and not still being harassed, as we can call it. More than one in three private kindergartens is already running short today. Private kindergartens do not receive a krone more in grants than government, and the majority of private kindergartens – as many as 95 pst. – have collective agreements with unions on pay and working conditions. It's not profit that drives most kindergarten owners, it's a beating heart for children and kindergarten. The right will preserve the choice of families and the diversity and quality of private kindergartens have contributed. We are convinced that we ensure the best possible childcare facilities if we have a mix of private and municipal kindergartens, who learn from each other, make strict demands on quality and the number of pedagogues, and supervise the use of the money legally. We should applaud and praise those who take risks and commit both capital and efforts to deliver good childcare services. It should be more about the services we get, not who gives them. It's time we got together in the welfare debate, because we can't start building monopolies now. We need the welfare innovators, not only in the kindergarten sector, but in other sectors as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1415	Today, half of the kids in Norway go to municipal kindergartens, while the other half go to private homes. The fact is that it is precisely this combination, which emerged through the kindergarten agreement, that has ensured that we today have full kindergarten coverage. We all work to have good kindergartens, for the benefit of the kids who are going to be there. For just these kids, we don't deserve to have a debate where we use sharper shots than necessary. That is precisely the reason why we in the Central Party want a constructive and good debate in order to improve the financing system for private kindergartens, instead of digging ourselves into the trenches. Our kindergartens are an important venue for giving our children and young people a good start to life. There, as a society, we can take responsibility for inclusion, integration and development. That's where the foundation is laid. But today, the funding system is a huge challenge, both for the municipalities and for the individual kindergarten. The difference in grants is still DKK 100000 from the highest to the lowest. One of three private kindergartens is in deficit, while on the other hand we see numbers of large profits and dividends. This creates debate, it creates discussion, and it intelligibly creates frustration. We all agree that changes need to be made. We in the Center Party are particularly concerned about the small, individual private kindergartens, which experience economic unforeseeableness and economic pressure, where more and more end up being bought up by commercial chains. It is important that kindergartens are really part of the community, so that parents and elected representatives can know the leadership, governance and operation of the kindergarten. We do not want a development where an increasing proportion of kindergartens are purchased and owned by commercial groups without local ties. That's why it's important for us to now facilitate the small, single private kindergartens in the future, so that they can maintain their activity. At the same time, we have to recognise that it is demanding to speculate that the kindergarten sector becomes an investment object with profit targets, because we all want the money going to kindergarten to be spent on the kids and that the grants will benefit them. In recent years, this sector has been the subject of debate and many different proposals in one direction or another. In the future, it is important for us to find solutions that will actually work over time, and that will facilitate the maintenance and operation of kindergartens, which constitute an important offer throughout the country, without this being an object of making large profits that do not benefit the children. If we get a nursery bill 2.0 or one, we in the Center Party will be working on creating a regulation and funding system that works in practice, that gives predictability to municipalities, to drivers, to employees, and not least to young people and families all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1432	Every morning I or my partner deliver the most precious thing we have, namely our child, in a kindergarten. It's a huge statement of trust from us as parents, and it assumes that we can be absolutely sure that it's always the best of the kids that's taken into account in the operation of the nursery. I know that the employees of the private commercial kindergartens are doing the best they can to give young people a good offer within the limits they have to exercise their profession, but in very many cases employees say that the profit motive of the commercial owners is at the expense of the employees' ability to follow educational arrangements and framework plans, and thus also at the expense of the opportunities they have to protect their children's legal rights – i.e. that the consideration of private enrichment is put before the kids. In the last 20 years, the non-discrimination of various private forms of ownership in the kindergarten sector has led to the enormous emergence of commercial kindergartens. As late as last week, Anne Lindboe, who has so far been the leader of the commercial owners' largest lobby organization, PBL, went out and warned that large players are growing and getting more and more control over Norwegian kindergartens. In the case of kindergarten policy, this confirms what Red has said all the way, that the development towards large commercial kindergarten group is affecting the diversity of the kindergarten sector, in particular the ideals. Now the small, ideal kindergartens are gradually eaten up by large, commercial chains. The concentration is done both by large operators purchasing individual AS kindergartens, but also by individual ideal kindergartens. Today, public authorities do not have any means of governing ownership in the private sector of the nursery sector. It's free for the chains to buy up smaller players, and the giants can get bigger. The speech of the figures is quite clear: while the four largest commercial kindergarten chains represented one in five private kindergartens in 2013, they own together every three kindergartens today. That this does not contribute to more diversity is obvious. If real diversity is to be ensured in the kindergarten sector, we need, in Red's opinion, a phased-out of commercially motivated ownership. The diversity is ensured much better by private ideal kindergartens, which are often independent and created from below, than by powerful commercial groups, owned and managed from above, and which grow up through the purchase of individual kindergartens. The right is once again running with horror propaganda in its aversion to protecting the right of commercial owners to private enrichment, and on the way they are sipping together ideal and commercial kindergartens in a single large private pan. Private operations do not mean the same thing as private profits, and that's what's important. In non-profit operations, we are assured that all the profits will be reinvested in the operation. There's no one talking about private kindergartens being phased out; what we're talking about is that commercial kindergartens are to be phased out. If commercial owners want to convert the operation into non-profit, they are cordially welcome to stay. If not, we must get other owners, who want to drive without making money for their own enrichment. In any case, kindergartens won't disappear. The children are going to be there, the toys are there, the employees are there, and I'm absolutely sure that the bypass disease is coming along. We have to establish once and for all that kindergarten is available for our kids, not to be a money machine for commercial owners. Red is concerned about the diversity of kindergartens, and that is precisely why we feel the need to get profit motive and commercial kindergartens out of the sector. Only in that way can I, as a mother, we as a parent and we as a society be sure that public money and the parental payment actually benefit the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1447	We have every reason to be proud of the work done in kindergartens in Norway, and what we have done in this sector. If we look at the kindergarten agreement, where we were going from the fact that many people were in line waiting for an opportunity to have children's playgrounds, to getting full child care coverage over a period of 10-20 years, and how much it means for society to get people into work and for the social economy, it's a very good and important investment. This is something we should be proud to have managed. We should also be proud that we keep a price that allows most people to afford, and that the government has taken the price further down, which means that more people can use the kindergartens. We should also be proud of the quality of both private and municipal kindergartens. The parents are very satisfied, and the difference between the private and the municipal kindergartens in how happy parents are is small. That's something we should all be happy about. But that we're going to have a real discussion – sometimes a bit of a powerful discussion – about the private kindergartens, which get 26 billion. kr from the public, is both fair and fair. The rules in this area have been in place for very many years, but now need an update. I also think that the previous government was aware of that. Several samples were dropped. They did a lot of hearings, they got recorded, and they've been working on and doing a lot of work. However, there was a failure when measures were to be launched and real changes were to be made for the sector — there was no such thing. The rate of development has increased. Concert formation – that the bigger one gets bigger – is just going faster. If we go back to 2007, it was 5 pst. of kindergartens within the largest groups. If we don't do anything and the change is allowed to continue, Telemark's research believes that over 50 pst. of kindergartens will be within a few and large groups in 2029. This is a development I think most people don't want, and something that everyone is talking about as a problem, but it's a willingness to make the real changes that need to be made to introduce a regulation that changes this. It is necessary to give room and opportunity to the local branches of our democracy to exercise governance over the sector. It is often invited to have a better discussion about this and to talk more about quality and less about governance and ownership. But to get there, we need a real debate and legislation that is being updated and that is consistent with the reality in which you live. The representative Hagerup said that employees are exposed to the sheiks. That is a very strong claim. I have never felt that the employees have been included in this debate in such a way. If we are to have a good debate on this, we must have the ability to look at the difficult and challenging aspects of this without putting employees in front of us in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1465	When I listen to the Council of State, I try to distinguish between the rhetoric used here, the rhetoric used in the media, and what political proposals you discuss, because there is a great contrast between a Council of State here saying that it is not a goal to get rid of the chains, but that it is an objective to have a diversity, and a Council of State that says in yesterday's Class struggle: ‘SV and Red enter open doors. But on the inside of the door I stand with open arms." My point is that it is sad that good kindergartens and public–private cooperation, which have been very successful for the last 15–20 years, can be lost because Red and the rest of the left have succeeded in drawing what I think is a rather wrong picture of the sector. The debate is marked by many false claims, which I think can be devastating if the goal is to have a diversity over time. I will mention some of them: the Welfare Service Committee has carried out a thorough investigation of private kindergartens. They did not find worse working and pay conditions – over 95 pst. has a fixed salary and a pension. They didn't find any super profit either. Many of the figures and reports used in the debate to phase out private kindergartens are old figures before we introduced the pedagogical norm and the recruitment norm and, at least, before the reduction of the pension supplement. The truth is that the margins have decreased sharply if you look at changes over the last 3–5 years. More than one in three private kindergartens also have a deficit. It's especially the individual kindergartens that are hit by these pretty flat cuts. The left-hand side also does not distinguish between dividends and profits in the debate. It's used around each other quite consciously, even though it's obviously a difference in substance. If you have a surplus, there is something many kindergartens use to invest next year or in the years to come for example. cleaning up builds or bets on more competence. It is an important safety valve. In the debate, the left side also avoids distinguishing profits from running kindergartens and profits from selling properties, although we know that the main reason for making good money in the sector over the last 10–15 years has been the increase in property prices. The last time I checked, it has not been at the expense of the children. So it might be, when you look back at the nursery arrangement, that it was unwise to give, for example. cheap loans from the House Bank to several kindergartens in the desire to build such an important welfare offer. But it's not a current issue now, because private kindergartens don't get one penny more in grants than the government, and there's a restriction in the kindergarten law of how much profits children's gardens can have. When we now have financial supervision of the private kindergartens, we can also ensure that that law is followed. I say this because I feel that a proper factual basis needs to be established to discuss what to do now, to ensure that single kindergartens can also operate well in such an important sector. I also want to say that using crimes in single-child gardens to label all private kindergartens, obviously is a pretty successful strategy, but it's not the right way to produce the sector. I believe that the Storberget Committee has gone too far in adopting this sense of reality. What they are actually proposing is to give municipalities full freedom to cut grants and in the duration of grants to children in private kindergartens, thus 1) making it totally unforeseeable for private and non-profit kindergartens to operate, and 2) making it so that the private kindergarten becomes almost worthless in the market. When the municipalities will then be given the right to pre-buy these kindergartens at market prices, knowing that the market price has become very low, there is a way to put the hook on the door for many private kindergartens. I wish the Council of State could be clear that your government is not going. It would ensure predictability for many kindergartens who are concerned about these proposals and who experience that they do not dare to borrow for example. cleaning up a nursery. A nursery I visited on Nordstrand, dare not do anything pending what is going to happen in connection with the follow-up of the Storberget Committee. The right is for transparency about economics and quality. That's why we have to have financial supervision. We are in order to impose strict quality requirements. We're positive to look at the funding model, so it's easier to run single kindergartens. I also believe that it should be made clear in the grant calculations to the municipalities what the private kindergartens will receive from grants, as there are many individual kindergartens that believe that it is also very unpredictable. I also believe that it should be possible for a municipality to invest extra in some kindergartens without any private kindergartens getting more in grants. So there's obviously a need to look at changes, but I'm not willing to risk thousands of good kindergartens to prevent anyone from making any money, when we have such strict quality requirements. I wish that was what all the parties in this room focused on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1494	I would like to thank you for a good debate. Thank you to the Council of State for your contributions, and thank you to everyone else who has contributed to the debate with great commitment. I'm very glad that this debate on kindergartens arouses commitment, because it deserves it. Kindergartens are very important in our society. The solution is not to make it almost impossible to operate private kindergartens in the municipality according to the municipality. The solution is to ensure a better framework for individual private kindergartens. I hear that we agree quite well, at least I tried to hear it when the Council of State spoke. If we do that, we take care of the diversity and freedom of choice of children and parents, while at the same time contributing to public competition for quality and development, and that is positive. It is also positive that we maintain important jobs throughout the country. As long as we have strict requirements for quality and have good supervision, there is no problem that people who take risks have the opportunity to make money if they succeed. The alternative is poorer services and less diversity and capacity over time. The most important thing for the Right is not who owns and operates the kindergarten. It is that all children can go to kindergarten, that the parents and children who use kindergartens are satisfied, that the quality is good, that the children are safe, and that the public takes the bill. At the same time, we are committed to demanding that private actors be open about economics and ownership, good quality and good working conditions. In 2021 the municipalities of Oslo and Bergen spent about one billion dollars buying up private kindergartens for municipal use. This is money that could go to new toys, more educators or more quality. It is money that could have led to several one-year-olds having the nursery place ready or to cheaper kindergartens for low-income families. Instead, the money went to tie up property investments in the municipality. I ask myself if there is a good use of public funds, and I'm pretty sure the answer is no. The fight that is now taking place is an ideological struggle on which the children lose and which reduces people's freedom of choice. But thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1509	It is correct that I said in the class fight yesterday that SV and Red are knocking open doors, and that I am standing with open arms on the inside. I also do that if the Right chooses to open doors and to discuss what I feel we agree on, namely that we need some tightening or, if it suits some parties better to call it that, updates to a code that is made for a sector that then completely different when the rules were created. In the Finanzavisen on 20 December last year we could read that Norlandia, the Läringsverstedet and Fryge Barnehager have sold kindergarten property abroad for a little over 14 billion. kr in the last 18 months. Nor do I believe the kindergarten sector and those who run private kindergartens deserve to be the focus of the debate on private kindergartens. My goal is that kindergartens should be a full part of the education process. That is why we must make clear demands on quality, we must make clear demands on working conditions, and we must have great respect for educational freedom and development. And that's precisely why, because the quality should be in focus, because the parents should be safe, because we all need to know that regardless of what it says on the logo of the building we deliver our kids in, our kids have it well, and those who run kindergartens have good conditions, we need to change the rules. Because it is not good for the legitimacy of the political frameworks around kindergartens that we are discussing this infinitely, nor is it good for what I feel we in Stortinget have a desire to focus on, namely on quality in all kindergartens. In this way, I think it is right that we make those changes as quickly as possible in order to move forward in a very important debate on how to go into kindergarten in Norway. We have a lot of ideal single group children's gardens, we have ideal group children's gardens, we have a lot of different variations of kindergartens that do a big job every day. My goal and the goal of the Storting, as I see this debate, is that there must be kindergartens that run at a reasonable profit and margin, because let's not be naive either: you have to be able to make pay if you run a private nursery, if that's what you work with. Some of the challenges are precisely this with innovators, whom I find several of the representatives here are concerned about. Driving innovation, establishing a kindergarten today, is almost impossible, both because the groups have grown so large, and because there is already no need for more places. That means that the kindergartens that end up having too few children are striving to get it to go around and be bought up by the large groups. I appreciate a good debate. I am pleased to make proposals for the Storting and look forward to joint efforts for increased quality for all children in all kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1524	That is when the debate is on case No. Seven done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1542	With Meld. St. 18 for 2020-2021, Experience, sheep, parts – Art and culture for, with and by children and young people, the government of Solberg presented for the first time the children and youth culture field as an overall policy area at national level. The aim was to give all children and young people, regardless of background, access to art and culture, to ensure that art and culture created for and disseminated to children and young people is of high quality and gives all children and young people the opportunity to experience and create culture on their own premises. I have to admit, I love the cultural school. The work of many cultural schools with inclusion and integration shows how art and culture can contribute to the creation of belonging, community, participation and the fight against alienation. Culture School is an important inclusion venue for children and young people irrespective of background and function. We need to further develop and exploit that arena even better. Culture School is an arena where children and young people get the opportunity to get to know themselves, feel mastery, explore different cultural expressions, develop their creative skills and meet teachers with great knowledge and competence. The cultural schools are important social actors, a role that can still be further developed, and of which we as society can benefit much more if we see the cultural school in conjunction with the other municipal services and institutions we have. Culture is like knowledge – there's more of it when it's shared. Therefore, good cooperation between the cultural school, the school, the kindergarten and the SFO is very important for more people to have access to high-quality art and culture – of, for and with children and young people. If the cultural school is to achieve its potential, municipalities must work strategically with their plans and have a long-term perspective. It should be a goal for everyone to take advantage of the competence of the cultural school to benefit the kindergarten, school and SFO, as well as the rest of the society. It is important that more children and young people take part in the great cultural school offers. How are we going to achieve that? Children and young people want cultural policy to facilitate the elimination of waiting time at cultural schools and lower the price of participation. It has long been an objective that the cultural school should be accessible to all who wish to participate. However, one of the conclusions of the cultural school report of 2019 is that the cultural school does not recruit evenly in terms of gender and socio-economic background. It is important for children and young people, and it is important for society that all children who want to participate in the activities of the cultural school, and the family economy must not hinder the participation of children and young people. That was one of the reasons why the government introduced the leisure card. All children and young people must have access to leisure activities. The Stortingsbericht is clear that the vision for the municipal cultural schools is ‘Cultural School for All’. The Communication gives future cultural schools a central position in the development and planning of local and regional communities. The role of the cultural school in society is incorporated into an overall municipal context. The notification also makes great expectations for the Norwegian School of Culture Council, as a central development organisation in the field. About 13 p.m. In the last few years, students in primary school have had a place in the cultural school. Achieving the message’s vision will require the future cultural school to reach many new target groups. New skills are needed and new forms of cooperation and education need to be developed. Experience suggests that such development work is to a small extent carried out by itself in municipal everyday life. But we also know that the desired development can be stimulated if it is done in a targeted way. How will the Council of State contribute to the further development of the cultural school as the major social actor it is, and what action does the Council of State intend to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1563	Culture School is an important part of many children and young people's lives. The training they get there gives them the opportunity to unfold creatively. They get to learn, experience, create and convey cultural and artistic expressions. The cultural school contributes to the building of children and young people's aesthetic, social and cultural competences. For many, this is a leisure offer that gives joy, friends and inspiration, and for some, it's also the first step towards a professional career as a musician, a writer or a dancer. Therefore, it is important that the cultural school is both a school offer, a leisure offer and a cultural offer that needs to be widely fattened. I believe it is important that all children and young people who want to go to the cultural school. It has a value in itself that there is an offer children and young people have access to, regardless of where they live. I also think it is part of a larger democracy project: that all children and young people have access to high-quality art and culture training. It contributes to social cohesion, and it is also an important arena for inclusion and integration. It is important that cultural schools have an offer that is perceived as relevant for different pupils and that cultural schools also have a diverse offer that mirrors society. I believe it is a strength to see the cultural school in the context of the other child and youth culture policy, but it is also important that we see the cultural school in the context of education policy. I am therefore pleased that the cultural school is based in the Education Act and is located in the Ministry of Knowledge. It gives us good opportunities to see the cultural school, kindergarten, school, SFO and higher education in a context. That is why the Education Directorate has now been given a clear mission to follow up the cultural field, and they are already cooperating with the Norwegian Cultural Council and will do so in the future. The high level of competence of cultural school employees is an unused resource. We have a lot to gain from seeing the skills of the cultural school in the context of the competences of kindergarten, primary school, secondary school and SFO, at both national and local level. This is something I want to work on. As Minister of Knowledge, I would also like to stress that much of the learning and experience of children and young people related to art and culture takes place in the educational process. I want a cultural school that has room for action to adapt the scope and content of the offer according to local needs, desires and resources. At the same time, it is important to me that we have clear ambitions on behalf of all children and young people who want to participate in cultural school education. Today, too few children and young people are given the opportunity to attend the cultural school. Although it is a goal both politically and for Kulturskole-Norway that the cultural school should be for everyone, overviews show that only about 13 pst. of all primary school children attending cultural schools. We also know that the majority of these parents have high school parents, and that's good, but that's not good enough. So I am now working on assessing the different ways in which we can help more people who want to get an offer. For me, this is a question of giving equal opportunities to all children and young people, and it is a question of social cohesion. I therefore consider different options for following up the government platform, including: whether a stake in the SFO can be seen with the cultural school. I think it's an untapped potential in collaboration between kindergarten, school, SFO and cultural school to help improve content and education, exploit the skills of cultural school teachers and give many more children the opportunity to participate in cultural activities. I thank the representative who puts the cultural school on the agenda, and I assure you that I am considering how we can follow up both the Hurdal platform and previous ambitions on how we can get an even better and more accessible cultural school offer for more people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1582	Then we take a break in the negotiations on case No. Eight, and there's a call for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1594	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1606	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Mudasar Kapur on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Red proposal No 2, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party and Red proposal No 3, from Tobias Drivenland Lund on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting as soon as possible with a proposal to temporarily increase the income limit in order to apply for housing aid in the period from 1 January to 1 January. 31 March 2022, so that even more can qualify to receive housing aid.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1635	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Advancement Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that beneficiaries of disability benefits, redundancy payments and similar social benefits with low income and high housing costs are able to apply for housing support.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1652	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2022 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1898	In the course of the debate, Mr Kristjánsson put forward four proposals on behalf of Mr Rødt. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to record the development of rentals from all manning companies and to produce statistics by industry and by country, including the share from EU Member States, and to submit proposals for measures to prevent, inter alia, the spread of the development of the construction industry to other sectors.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government, as an immediate measure, asks the Government to impose a ban on the hiring of labour from non-production enterprises on construction sites in the former provinces of Oslo, Akershus, Østfold, Buskerud and Vestfold, cf. [[5]] § 14-12 of the Environmental Protection Act Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals leading to an increase in basic staffing and to a strengthening of public employment services, in order to ensure the necessary labour force for businesses.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for a ban on the hiring of labour from private enterprises which are not production enterprises.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1937	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e1956	In the course of the debate, Mr Kristjánsson put forward four proposals on behalf of Mr Rødt. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] It shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 8 to 4 are replaced by the following: § 8-4 Group information and discussion When an enterprise belongs to a group which regularly employs at least 50 workers, a framework for cooperation, information and discussion between the group and the employees of the group shall be established. [[1]] The form of cooperation shall be agreed between the group and a majority of its employees, or between the group and one or more local trade unions representing a majority of the employees of the group. A cooperation body or another equivalent form of cooperation may be established. [[2]] If plans for extensions, limitations or conversions may also have a significant impact on employment in several activities of the group, the group management shall inform and discuss these issues with the cooperation body as early as possible after the first subparagraph. The group management may appoint management representatives in the activities to which it relates. [[3]] The first and second subparagraphs may be waived in a collective agreement. Paragraph 14-2 of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: Employee who has been laid off because of the company's circumstances has the right to re-employment in the same establishment, unless the employee is not qualified for a post. [[1]] In addition, if the employer belongs to a group or group of enterprises linked by participating interests or joint management, the employee has the right to new employment throughout the group or group, unless the employee is not eligible for a job. The right of pre-emption after the second sentence shall lapse if the employee does not accept the offer of other appropriate work in accordance with the third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 15-7. The fourth paragraph of Section 14-3 is replaced by the following: the right of pre-emption under Section 14-2, with the exception of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 14-2 and the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 14-2, precedes the right of pre-emption for part-time employees.» [[4]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘In Law No 17 June 2005 62 on the working environment, working time and job protection, etc. [[work environment law]] It shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 1 to 8 are replaced by the § 1-8 Employee and employer For the purposes of this law, the employee means anyone who carries out work for and subordinate to another. [[1]] The decision shall, inter alia, focus on whether or not he or she makes his or her labour available, whether or not he or she has a personal obligation to work, and whether or not he or she is subordinate to management and control. Where there is reasonable doubt as to the classification, employee relationships shall be taken into account unless the contracting entity is satisfied that there is an independent job relationship. [[2]] For the purposes of this Act, the employer means any person who has employed an employee, cf. The first paragraph. The provisions of this Act on the employer shall apply mutatis mutandis to the manager of the enterprise in the place of the employer. A legal entity other than the person who is the employer after the first sentence may be entrusted with shared responsibilities if it has performed a substantial number of employer functions. Paragraphs 1 to 10 are added as follows: § 1-10 Circumstances Disposals and agreements involving a circumvention of the law may be set aside by the courts as invalid. [[1]] In such cases, the legal status of the employee is determined by the judgment. [[2]] When assessing the existence of circumvention, attention shall be paid to whether the disposition or contract is fully or partly motivated by, or has the effect of depriving, the employee of rights. Consideration may also be given, inter alia, to the relationship of strength between the parties and the economic and welfare importance of the disposition or agreement. § 2-2, first paragraph is replaced by the following: When other than the employer’s own employees, including hired workers or self-employed contractors, carry out work tasks related to the activity or arrangement of the employer, the employer shall, irrespective of where the work takes place: [[1]] (a) ensure that their own activities are organised and the work of their own workers is arranged and carried out in such a way as to ensure a fully sound working environment for workers other than their own; (b) cooperate with other employers in order to ensure a fully sound working environment; (c) ensure that the hours of employment of hired workers are in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 10.»; Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for a cut-off rule in the event of circumvention of the Working Environment Act § 1-10 and that a cut-through rule may be applied by a low-threshold dispute mechanism and return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to clarify in the first paragraph of Section 14-2 of the Working Environment Act that ‘a group of enterprises linked by interests or joint management’ also includes group-like enterprises, chains and cooperatives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2063	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2075	Case No. 4-8 are interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2123	We'll continue with interpellant Kari-Anne Jønnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2128	The councils looked very nice about the cultural school, but she forgot one thing. She forgot that for some kids, the cultural school is everything. I want to tell you about Audhild, who when the pandemic hit the hardest, traveled around to kids with instruments to allow them to experience the cultural school at home every day of the week, or when they needed it. And I want to tell you about Ingrid-Marie and Rosamund, who changed their digital cultural school hours and adapted them to family situations, which enabled young people of all ages to continue to experience the cultural school. It says a lot about the commitment of those who work in the cultural school. Not only do they have a very high level of knowledge and competence, they are also very concerned about helping all children and young people participating in the cultural school get good experiences. I am particularly pleased with what the Council of State said that the cultural school should be thought into the SFO in all municipalities. After all, the government has set aside money for twelve free SFO hours a week for first-rate ratings. Maybe the cultural school can be part of those hours, so we can make sure that all children can participate in the cultural school's activities. So she said something else I think was very good, namely, about seeing the cultural school in conjunction with the other education system at all levels. It is very important for the development of the cultural school and for society as such. I have another question, because the big news says that there are two main ways to understand the cultural school as a resource center. The first and most common understanding and practice is that the cultural school should be a resource centre for local cultural life. The second variant is less widespread and includes the cultural school as a broader social development actor, e.g. through cooperation with Nav, PPT, school health services, child protection, health and care services, etc. Is it that the Council of State is open to, or wants, seeing the School of Culture as a resource centre in a slightly wider sense and can it also imagine to see the School of Culture as an important player towards other municipal and public services, as in the broader sense of the Communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2141	I thank you for the question and again for the commitment. I fully agree with what Mr. Jønnes says about the fact that there are many fires out there that do everything in their power to make culture available to our children and young people. Culture School is a national framework to be offered in some form by all municipalities to their children and young people. Nevertheless, there are some dilemmas associated with steering this from national teams, but with large local variations. One of the dilemmas, which is also a lot about availability, is this with price. It is demanding to say, for example: that the price should be reduced, that we should have a maximum price, if the maximum price contributes to the cost of an offer that is already reasonable in some places. It is demanding to have a national approach to moderation mechanisms, for moderation mechanisms not necessarily correctly applied everywhere. It is also demanding to have an approach that both governs more clearly on the basis of more demands, for example: to cooperation, and at the same time to local variation. Having said that, I think it's a very good idea the representative of Jønes points out, namely that the cultural school can be both bonded and broken and reinforced efforts by other public and private actors to meet our children and young people. Here it does incredibly well, exciting and varied work all over the country from before. I think we can certainly do more to reinforce that effort, but at the same time, I think we should hold on to the fact that the cultural school should be the framework, and that it is the local variation and creativity that both targets and conveys the various local cultural expressions that exist out there, which are at the heart of the cultural school's mission. I am pleased that the team will be on the agenda, that we can discuss further, and that there can also be other suggestions on how we can follow up the good and thorough work already done in this area, and how we can strengthen the efforts of the municipalities to provide even more culture and offers to our children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2154	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the cultural school in the debate. The cultural school is very important; it is very important for many children and for community as well, I would say. The cultural school is working on creating a wide range of cultural offerings, but they are also working on raising the individual talents in this field around our municipalities. I am very pleased that the Hurdal platform points out that the cultural school should be accessible to all children and young people, and that there is a need to find opportunities to do this. In my own municipality, North Odal, I have been working with the cultural school for many years. It's very important, and one of the ways I've been looking at to reach all the kids and young people is to give a cultural school offer in width. In the municipality of Nord-Odal there is cultural school provision in all kindergartens throughout the year in specific age groups. It's a way to meet big groups of kids who are very good. It's low threshold and community. In addition, the cultural school is important for lifting parts of our culture. It's actually one of the cultural foundations we have in our community. It stimulates creativity and expansion, and not least a meaningful leisure time. See one on the standard in e.g. Norwegian rhythmic music, which claims to be in international context, I don't think it would be where it is today, it wouldn't have been for the cultural school. It is also important that the cultural school is able to interact with other, local cultural actors, such as corps. In my own municipality, Nord-Odal, we have what is called the "body patrol", which means that we have a fairly solid school corps in the small municipality of Nord-Odal, which is also very important. As I said instead, the cultural school creates better communities. My former colleague and longtime rapporteur in Stage, Nils Amund Røhne, were very concerned with both culture and culture. He had an enormous commitment to it and even put into the board of the Inland Cultural School Council. He was busy – and said it very clearly – that volunteering gives us a warmer society. He was concerned about community, and he also pointed to the importance of looking at volunteering also up against the cultural school. Especially now during the pandemic, it may be important to think about how to use the voluntary cultural sector in interaction and association with the cultural school, which may be an intrusive approach to how to meet the challenges that exist to make the cultural school accessible to all. Nils Amund Røhne was a wise man in this area too, and he said that we had to focus on the possibilities of cultural school and volunteering, not the ardor that we might see in the cultural sector. If we look at the possibilities, we can help create a good cultural school. I am delighted to be part of the debate and to raise this further. I think the cultural school is a part of giving good communities. It also gives a good experience for the children who are part of it – and it must be all the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2169	Let me also start by thanking for the opportunity to talk about something that we all should be proud of. The communication on youth culture, presented by the Solberg government, which we discussed here in the Stortinget in June, was historic. In the introduction of the message we read: ‘With this message, the government presents for the first time the children’s and youth culture field as a comprehensive policy area at national level. We do this because we believe that children and young people should have an art and culture offering of high quality.’ And in chapter 8 of the Communication, which has already been highlighted in the debate, which deals with the cultural school, we can read that the government wanted a ‘strong cultural school for the future’, and that the cultural school should have a varied offer of high quality and offer an offer to all children and young people who want it. Let me start with the concept of quality. For me, and not least with my experience from Moss, the cultural school stands for professionalism and quality. One of the success criteria is that all children, regardless of their level of knowledge and background, meet across highly qualified instructors and teachers. That is why I am very pleased that the quality concept permeates the whole biggest message. Unfortunately, I'm not as happy when I read the Hurdal platform. Where we can see that the red-green parts are of quality, for example. in the teaching of swimming, the same parties state that for the cultural school it is the most important thing that it should reach everyone. In other words, I read that quality is more important in some areas than in other areas, such as: cultural school, which we are discussing here. Unfortunately, I am not getting any more upset by reading the 2022 letter of assignment from the Ministry of Knowledge to the Directorate of Education. There are two sides to the cultural school here, but the word ‘quality’ is not mentioned once. I hope I interpret this error. The second concept I want to touch in this post is ‘for everyone’. The cultural school report from 2019 shows that around 13 p.m. children of primary school age attend cultural school, as has already been said in the debate. The typical cultural school life is described as a child or youth from a resourceful family of highly educated and culturally interested parents. The report also points to getting to know the cultural school, and that parents and children have to look for information about the cultural school to a large extent. This, of course, affects the number of participants and also who participates. That is why I am pleased that the Solberg government was clear when it proposed measures to ensure that the cultural school should be an offer for everyone. I was a little surprised to hear the Council of State say that she is now moving on to find out how to include more, because in the Storing Message it is listed a number of measures for how to include more, including. that it should be a political objective for the cultural school that municipalities have both a broad range and a core offer, that the Education Directorate further develop the information on the cultural school, including in several languages, and that the information is made available, that cultural schools are encouraged to work on recruiting broader to reach just all children and young people, and last but not least encourage cultural schools to work to provide a wide range of cultural expressions in their portfolio. I hope the government will also follow up this in the work of including more. This cultural school report shows us that the lack of latitude recruitment, to call it that, is not just about economics, as some people make it as. But we should be aware that economics can, of course, be a barrier to many families. The Solberg government therefore asked the municipalities in the communication to assess whether the cultural school could be included in the leisure card scheme. The aim was to ensure that all children could be able to participate in a leisure activity. If the municipalities had made use of this, it would help lower the threshold to participate in this offer for a very large number. As is well known, the Workers' Party and the Centre have chosen to wind up the scheme before the pilot projects have been completed and evaluated, but we must also expect from Stortinget that the government will come up with other measures to eliminate the economy as a barrier in order to participate in the cultural school. The Culture School is an important arena for inclusion. There's always room for everyone. Culture doesn't have a exchange rate – you're always good enough to be a part of it. Where many fall off in sport when they feel that they are not good enough anymore, we see that culture manages to keep very many in a lifelong race. That's why culture school and quality are very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2193	Culture contributes to the creation of both living communities and a good life for the individual. Cultural schools form an important part of the core wall of national cultural activity, for cultural schools are many children and young people’s first meeting with cultural life – some by learning to play an instrument or to use their voice, others by doing something completely different through circus courses, dramas or, for example, by using their voice. visual arts. The lack of this offer creates a good venue for more children and young people to have the opportunity to develop their skills and to experience mastery, while at the same time helping to enhance the competence and joy of culture in children and young people. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party therefore regard the cultural school as an important offer for our children and young people, which can also be a significant resource for both basic, cultural and business life in the municipality. For us in the Centre Party, it has also always been important to highlight the link between the cultural schools and the field of education. The cultural school will extend the general training provision of primary school in practical-esthetic subjects and will continue to be enshrined in the Training Act in the future. At the same time, it is important for municipalities to have room to develop the offer and to facilitate good cooperation between cultural schools, schools and SFOs. In the future, we want cultural schools to be an arena where all children and young people can participate in the offer. The goal is to have a good quality offer, with good capacity and at a reasonable price. The Hurdals platform set out a clear direction in this policy, stating that the Workers' Party and the Centre wish to implement a new cultural promise to benefit the whole country, and in particular to focus on local and regional culture. At the same time, the local economy will continue to be strengthened and culture will again be 1 pst. of the budget. It hasn't done that in the last eight years, so I can reassure the representative Pettersen that it's only in the right that you think giving the offer to more people will go at the expense of quality. Our goal is that more people should have access to art and culture regardless of who they are and where they live, and investing even more in the cultural schools will be an important part of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2202	Thank you to the interpellant for taking up an important debate on the cultural school. I want to use my speaking time to talk about some of what I and Right think is important to the cultural school, and which the Council of State so far was involved in its article, which is about inclusion and integration. The cultural school is important for all children to have the opportunity to participate in artistic and cultural activities. It has an important responsibility to ensure that children belonging to ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities and indigenous peoples have the same right as all other children to live out their culture. Cultural expressions as their own language, and performing art, such as singing, dancing and rituals, are something we all have, and it is clear that children with minority backgrounds should have the same right and the same opportunity to practice their cultural expressions. The ability to meet children through artistic and cultural expressions is also important for inclusion, because children learn from each other. No matter what culture you come from, whether it's big or small, we also have a lot to learn from each other. It can help to build barriers between peoples, and not least a diverse cultural life will enrich us all. Let me give you an example. A lot of people know about the Color Game show, which is set up in several Norwegian municipalities. This is often done by e.g. the cultural schools. In my hometown, Trondheim, the cultural school, together with several others, has set up Color Games for ten years. It's an important performance, which also attracts a lot of attention, and it's especially important for those who get to participate in the art. Not only is it a nice notion, it also makes people from different cultures meet in an equivalent way and learn from each other. All children, regardless of their parents’ background and income, shall have the opportunity to participate in recreational activities, including cultural activities. Unfortunately, we know that there are too many children with immigrant backgrounds living in families with long-term low incomes. More than half of all children living in families with long-term low incomes have a migrant background — even though they represent only under 20 pst. of all children. The most important thing we can do is to make sure that these families get tools to get out of poverty permanently. It is about getting the qualifications and competences that the labour market demands, so that you can get to work permanently and get a sustainable income. But for these children, who are to be allowed to participate in society in the same way as all other children, we also need short-term measures to help them. For example, the leisure card scheme was an important measure to ensure that children in low-income families would also have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, but unfortunately it has also removed the Labour Party in government. At the same time, we need to improve everyday integration. Everyday integration takes place where people meet, whether in small and large communities or in formal and perhaps not least informal arenas. It could be in the neighborhood, at the parent's meeting, it could be the heinous side of the football team, or it could be sitting together at a performance of the very cultural school. Better everyday integration was one of the main pillars of the integration strategy of the Solberg Government, which was presented by the then Minister of Knowledge and Integration Jan Tore Sanner. For the right, it has been important to strengthen precisely the everyday integration that is taking place in these different arenas. Several measures have also been taken by the right-hand government, precisely to make more active use of culture and volunteering. An example is the scheme of inclusion for cultural life. In 2020, 9 million were allocated. kr to the scheme, which was allocated to 55 different projects providing actions aimed at children and young people in low-income families, families with a minority background, national minorities or children and young people with disabilities. For the next year, on the proposal of the Solberg government, there will also be a great strengthening of that very scheme, which will benefit children and young people. We are, of course, also pleased that the current government has chosen to continue the priorities of the Solberg government in its budget. It is important and good to have a diverse cultural life in which all children get involved, regardless of where they come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2219	I would like to thank the Council of States for their contributions, thank you for a good debate and thank everyone else who has taken part in the debate. I'll do mine to keep it alive in the future as well. Nils A. Røhne was a wise man. Culture and the cultural school contribute to a more open and inclusive society, and fortunately we are the ones who have had him in the Inland. The representative Grøthe spoke warmly about quality. Then I will be allowed to remember that there will be no more quality of covering more while budgets are being cut. That's $400 million cut. kr in the holiday card. It actually hits quite a lot. The cultural schools are a unique inclusion venue for children and young people. Nothing is as nice as seeing children and young people express themselves through art and culture. We're happy in sports in Norway, and that's good, because sport is a very important inclusion venue for very many, but the cultural school deserves the same focus, because what's more open and inclusive than culture? Culture is diverse and has room for everyone. One is good enough as one is, and there's room for being different. I don't know if everyone knows that feeling of not being good enough, but many have. It's not a big deal to be the last one to be chosen for the layer to fight for the winner. The amazing thing about the culture school is that no one needs to know that feeling, one is good enough as you are. It's a feeling that everyone deserves to know, and that we need more of in today's society. There's room for being different, taking a lot of space or taking little space, and there's room for different perspectives. It's great to see how people who didn't join the football team, play Csárdás so the tears go up at the audience, and it moves even the toughest to watch those who are struggling with the school class, but who with great of course master the theatre scene. It is absolutely necessary to take into account how some children and young people need blank sheets and pencils to tell their story, find themselves or accept who they are. The cultural school is so much more than an arena for children and young people. It's one of the important cornerstones of the social background wall. I want to take the opportunity to thank all those involved in the cultural school country for the efforts they make every day. Through the pandemic, they've stretched far. I know of many children and young people who have had the cultural school as their safe haven and their anchorage for the past two years. It's thanks to committed and dedicated teachers with great knowledge and competence. An extra thank you to all of you who have visited students with instruments, sheets and color pencils – you are important to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2234	On the way up to the pulpit, I got a hint from the representative of Jøns that it was time to say thank you for today, and I agree with that. Before that, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I think what the representative of Jøns has in mind, with the feeling of being good enough, is part of the core of what we want to contribute to by offering a rich and good cultural offer to all the country's children and young people. And maybe that's why this local variation is so important, where we build on belonging, on cohesion, and on what's special for just the community that offers cultural schools to the individual. Then I register the representative Pettersen's concern about the lack of wording in the Hurdal platform. I don't really think there's any reason for concern, but it contributes to an exciting debate, because I'm absolutely sure there's going to be quality in the cultural school offer. That's good and an ambition we share, and I'm absolutely sure it's a common goal for this hall to include more in the cultural school. However, the representative, Pettersen, is concerned, and until that, I can give some kind of a simple calculation, because after eight years of civil government, it's 13 pst. of our children and young people participating in the cultural school. That means it'll take about 60 years to arrive at the goal of being able to participate, at the rate we've had today. And then I can guarantee one thing and challenge another thing: I guarantee that I'm not going to sit that whole period if it takes this time, but I promise to challenge myself and you on how we can faster achieve the goal of more being included in the cultural school across the country. The fact that municipalities have economic muscles to prioritize local culture is crucial for the inclusion of more people. It is obvious that the local economy both characterises the price each individual has to pay to participate, it denotes the diversity of the offer and, of course, also indicates how quickly it can be converted if someone would get a good idea about something that might be relevant to offering children and young people. That's why I'm proud to be part of a government that strengthens the community economy and thus contributes to culture reaching out to more, because it's the universal arrangements that contribute to the cultural school being just a little bit bigger than just a meeting place for culture. It shall also be a meeting place between different people who, irrespective of background and wallet, have the opportunity to expand together, to get to know each other, to learn from others, to find anchors, find points of view and develop creatively with other children and young people, no matter who they are. I thank you for a very good and exciting debate and am delighted to discuss further with you all the steps we can take together to make sure that even more people get to be part of the amazing cultural school has to offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-01-11.ana.ud245e2249	The debate on substance is closed. 8 is over. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
