ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e95	Good colleagues! Bombing, saving children, people on the run, innocent victims, serious violations of international law, a people fighting for freedom and democracy – it is war in Europe. In solidarity with the Ukrainian people and all those who are also fighting for freedom and democracy in Russia, and in order to remember the victims of the war, the President will ask that we mark it with one minute's silence at the beginning of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e108	Honourable co-representatives! Former county councillor, state councillor and councilman Kåre Gjønes passed away on 26 July 2021 after a short period of illness. He was 79 years old. Although he was only a representative of the Magnificent for two periods, from 1985 to 1993, Kåre Gjønes will be standing as one of the great and solid parliamentarians. He had as a politician a straightness and integrity as few others. When he applied for the county office in the South Trøndelag, it was understood that he was not valid for a third period on the Lövebåkken. Many felt that both the party and the Stortinget could have needed Kåre Gjønnes in the big group for both one and two more periods. It was not least in the EEA case in 1992 that Kåre Gjønnes, who was then the parliamentary leader, showed political leadership by making a clear recommendation on what he thought was best for the country. Gradually, his advice has proved to be the right one. With a certain right, it can be claimed that it was he who ensured that the EEA became the compromise Norway needed in its relationship with Europe. When the center government was to be formed, Kåre Gjønnes was one of them it was natural to have on the team. He had the potential to fill any state council post in a government. That it became the Ministry of Agriculture was both a strength for this political field and a responsibility the farmer from the Orkdal went into with enthusiasm and weight. It was through employment in KrFU that Kåre Gjønnes got into political work. He was head of the South Trondelag KrFU and a member of the KrFU national government before engaging in municipal policy at home in Orkdal from 1972. When he became rapporteur in the municipality after the 1979 elections, he was the first rapporteur from a party other than the Labour Party for very many years. In 1985 he was elected to the Stortinget from Süd-Trøndelag. In his first period on the Løvebåkken he was vice-chairman of the Agriculture Committee. In his second term, he was the parliamentary leader and member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. In this ombudsman he turned out to be a reflective and knowledgeable politician. Many experienced Kåre Gjønnes as a bit of an ideologist. He was very conscious of the roots of the party, both ideologically and culturally. He was therefore a natural choice when the then Church Minister Valgerd Svarstad Haugland was to point out a leader of the State-Church Committee. For his efforts at many arenas in the Christian People's Party, he was appointed as an honorary member of the party at the 2011 national meeting. After 18 years of reigning, Kåre Gjønne was one of the veterans among the "men of the king". In the history of the Christian People's Party, too, he is counted among the veterans. We remember Kåre Gjønnes for his social inclusion and working in Stortinget. We bring peace to Kåre Gjønne’s good memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e135	Representatives Tellef Inge Mørland, Gro-Anita Mykjåland, Ingunn Foss, Une Bastholm, Silje Heimdal, Lan Marie Nguyen Berg, Siri Gåsemyr Staalesen, Seher Aydar, Olug Vervik Bollestad and Erlend Wiborg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The formerly temporarily exempted alternate of Nordland, Hans Gunnar Holand, has again taken up his seat. Four permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on Permits under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Stortingens Rules of Procedure of the representatives of Runar Seestad, Trine Lise Sundnes and Torstein Tvedt Solberg from 1 March onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Socialist Left on leave under Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, second sentence, of the representative of Ingrid Fiskaa, with effect from 1 March and until further notice, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark: Sigurd Kvammen Rafaelsen For Oslo: Agnes Nærland Wilderzeich For Rogaland: Marte Eide Klovning and Paal Kloster
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e225	Agnes Nærland Vilju branch, Marte Eide Klovning and Paal Kloster are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e237	The representative, Sofie Högstøl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e242	On behalf of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik, Guri Melby and myself, I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative to strengthen the right to self-determined abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e247	The representative of Guri Melby will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e252	On behalf of the representatives of Ola Elvestuen, Sofie Högestøl, Alfred Jens Bjørlo and myself, I have the honour of handing over a proposal for a representative on extraordinary support for Ukraine's struggle for freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e257	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e277	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e284	The Committee has worked on a serious matter. Based on the National Audit Office's study of grants to the International Peace Institute, IPI, we have gone through the criticism promoted by the National Audit Office. I'm going to go through some aspects of it, but the main message of the committee is that we agree with the criticism of the Riksaudition, on point by point. It is very important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs take it into account and ensure that the criticism that has emerged has implications for routines in the future. What the Riksrevision has looked at is, therefore, the grants for the period 2007–2012, where two three-year framework agreements were concluded with the International Peace Institute. The national audit has revealed significant procedural, control and follow-up weaknesses in the IPI grants. It is also highlighted that there are no revised project and final accounts for all the years of the period. The National Audit Office is critical that the follow-up and control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has so significant weaknesses. It shall join the Committee. It's e.g. also that the Ministry did not inform the IPI of the administrative cost limit before 2012, according to the survey. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision concludes that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not ensure that the necessary stability assessments were carried out. The Riksrevision's view is that during the period they have examined, the grant management has the effect that stability issues were simply not taken sufficiently seriously. We show in the recommendation that the Department of Justice carried out stability assessments of both political management and staff in the Department in connection with the 2012 grant payments, and that the Department then considered that there were factors that spoke of instability. Therefore, we note that the Riksrevision considers it critical that the follow-up and control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has considerable weaknesses, that it is highly critical that funding has been used to cover the administrative costs of the IPI in addition to those resulting from the guidelines of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that it is critical that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not ensured that the necessary stability assessments were carried out and documented in the treatment of grants to the IPI. The important thing to say to us is that the Committee is behind the findings and criticisms of the National Audit Office and that we are concerned that the recommendations that have been made are being followed up. It is a matter of ensuring that the current control system is sufficient to ensure confidence in those who take decisions when granting grants and that grants are followed up in such a way that the Ministry has the assurance that the grant will be used in line with the assumptions and that the intended objectives are met. We further point out that the National Audit Office recommends the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure continuity and stability of proceedings over time, as well as to ensure that necessary assessments of the stability of persons involved in the Ministry's grant management are carried out. We also support what the National Audit Office points to in relation to findings and recommendations regarding the improvement of grant systems and compliance with requirements and rules, as well as strengthening the documentation of the assessments that have been carried out. We have supported the recommendations of the National Audit Office and we are also asking the National Audit Office to follow the further work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is a unanimous committee that supports this, and then individual parties will present specific comments and proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e301	Thanks to the rapporteur for the orderly and good work and the corresponding articles on the matter. This will not be an article contrary to what the rapporteur has said, it will be more to build up below and underline the same. It is not as often as we get reports from the National Audit Office that address critical issues that go back 10–15 years in time, but in this case the National Audit Board chose to look into the period 2007–2012, after tips and information that indicated that there were weaknesses or errors in the handling of grants to the International Peace Institute, and deficiencies in stability assessments. The Court of Auditors has examined both the procedure, the follow-up and the control of the grants. The International Peace Institute is an organisation that works well, that works to promote peace, security and sustainable development, and that has been a good and informal meeting place outside the UN where relevant issues could be discussed. The National Audit Office’s investigations have revealed three aspects of this matter which give rise to concern: First, the Ministry had significant procedural weaknesses, as well as the lack of control and follow-up of the use of the grant funds for the purpose of achieving the objectives of the application and compliance with the rules on the use of the grant. It is frightening when such sums are paid over time. Furthermore, the report reveals the lack of routines and follow-up of the grant recipient, of a species that would indicate that this was discovered much earlier. The National Audit Office points out that it is very critical that funding for IPI has been used in contravention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ internal guidelines. This applies mainly to the proportion of administrative contributions made. This criticism is supported by an overall committee, and the consequences of this are – as the Riksrevision points out – that money that should have gone for other purposes has gone to the day-to-day operation of the IPI. Last but not least: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not ensure that the necessary stability assessments were carried out. The national audit considers this to be critical, and the Committee also agrees. The Ministry’s Legal Service itself pointed out in the stability assessment carried out in the context of the 2012 grant payment that there were factors that led the responsible Head of Mission to be incapacitated. Grant practices in the department were not in line with the leadership of the Stortinge or the department’s own guidelines. Therefore, it is reassuring to read the reply from former Foreign Minister Ine Eriksen Soreide, which describes the introduction from 2013 of a number of measures to strengthen the control and quality of grant management. It is also a good thing that the awareness of the department's capacity to react has increased. It is a unanimous committee that emphasises that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must use the findings and recommendations of the National Audit Office to continue working on improvements and compliance with requirements and rules, which is also confirmed by the South. There are two minority proposals in this case. The right does not support them, but refers to the fact that a Joint Committee, in its opinion, asks the National Audit Office to follow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' further efforts to improve the management of grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e322	The Ministry has made every effort to achieve objectives in the fields for which they are responsible. We end up in Stortinget every year when we adopt the budget. The incentive should not be used to promote the interests of any person working in a department. Allowances shall be used to represent the Community's objectives. The requirements we have for the management, follow-up and control of subsidies shall ensure that the Ministry is working to achieve the objectives to which the Stortinget has agreed. Equal to those for the requirements of viability. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave 58.2 million. kr in addition to IPI for the period 2007-2012. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not control how the International Peace Institute used the money. The ministry broke the rules for case management and did not take the issues of viability seriously. The Head of Mission of the Department as Assigned Resources for the period 2008-2012 became a member of the International Council of the IPI in 2010. He was former partner of Terje Rød-Larsen, president of the IPI, and daily head of the Secretariat from January 2005 to October 2020. I would like to extend a strong call to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take seriously the recommendation of the National Audit Office. The Ministry shall ensure that the control system for handling deposits is adequate to ensure confidence in those who decide who receive credits. The work of the Agency shall be based on professional integrity and legal certainty. Therefore, a recommendation from the National Audit Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should not be required to do so. It was necessary that the former Minister of Foreign Affairs put in place a series of measures to improve the management of deficits in the ministry. This must be followed up by the new minister. That's how I hope we don't get such a case to the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e335	This case concerns over 40 million. kr in grants to the International Peace Institute, i.e. the International Peace Institute, and I have to admit that I find it difficult today – the first day of the meeting after the brutal attack on Ukraine, repugnant, repugnant – to discuss what happened 10-15 years ago. I think it would have been more natural to discuss the 1959 decision, or, if necessary, the addition or repeal of that decision on this day. I have extensive comments in the committee position. I hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will assess any possible criminal offences involving officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where, in my opinion, there is obvious instability, close friendship with someone who has received significant amounts over many, many years. This is a reprehensible practice, which is very nice that was stopped. But I find it difficult today, in the first meeting after what has happened, to go into it more closely. So I'm going to finish and take up the proposals that have come from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e344	Then the representative Carl I. Hagen brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e349	The majority will have the opportunity to discuss the situation in Ukraine and the consequences it will have for Norwegian policy, when the Prime Minister comes to the Stortinget to explain later this week. The National Audit Office has carried out a thorough and useful review of the IPI grants. The U.D. has not granted support to IPI since 2018. Nor do we have any intention of further support. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has worked with the IPI for many years, even though we have not given grants in recent years. As regards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' cooperation with the IPI, changing governments have supported this organisation for decades. This support has been based on professional assessments, and they have been viewed as good. The IPI has provided financial reports and maintained its obligations under the agreements concluded with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There have been changes in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' work on allocations in recent years. The IPI case was a matter that led to learning and change, and we have reduced the number of agreements to get better control and control. The National Audit Office has gone through the allocations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has cooperated well with the National Audit Office in order to obtain the best possible clarification. The conclusion of the Riksaudition report relates to matters that are lagging behind in time, and the grant schemes have been significantly strengthened and improved since 2012. Nevertheless, we will assess whether there are still areas where we should improve. Grant management, providing financial support to organisations contributing to the implementation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ strategic objectives, is one of the most central tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is important that everyone in and outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has confidence in this work – that it is implemented in line with the Storting decision, that it is implemented in line with existing laws and regulations, internal guidelines and agreements concluded between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and those receiving funds. There shall be and currently is a great deal of transparency around the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' grant management. Norwegian funds for grants shall be used under agreements. Where funds have been used in breach of agreements, this shall be followed up. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has zero tolerance for economic and other abuses of Community funds. The zero-tolerance policy is followed up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs guidelines on the practice of zero-tolerance for economic maladministration. Since 2013, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has implemented a number of actions aimed at strengthening the systems and raising the quality of grant management in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These include: on the grant management guide, put into service in 2013. New and uniform rules were introduced for grant management for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad to ensure better compliance with statutory and internal requirements. The case handlers thus find all information on grant management in one place and it must be clear now which rules apply. This is currently a digital guidance system available to case handlers throughout the EEAS, which is continuously updated and maintained. The administration was further strengthened by the establishment of a grant management section in 2014, which established a multidisciplinary technical and control environment for grant management in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The section is part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' internal control and works with system development, advice, training and compliance with rules and quality assurance. In order to further strengthen the systems, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has set up a separate working group which has looked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' practice of the zero-tolerance principle of economic disparity. They have now submitted a report to the Department of Management, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will review the findings and recommendations contained in the report and implement any necessary measures. The aim is always to have better control over the use of grant funds. This report draws particular attention to the importance of stability assessments. It is the individual himself who must make assessments of his own stability, and when there is doubt, it must be raised to discussion and, where appropriate, to judgment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Justice and Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e374	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e379	I would like to stress that I am attending the Prime Minister's statement on Ukraine, which is a topic that concerns us all, and that he comes here later this week. The National Audit Office writes that it is highly critical how grant funds are used to cover the administrative costs of the International Peace Institute in addition to what has been the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ guidelines. This is a criticism of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose job it is – on behalf of all of us in this House, and the people – to control how funding is used. During the period 2007 to 2012, the Ministry concluded two three-year grant agreements with the IPI, without requiring information that would have made it possible to check whether the grant had achieved the intended objectives and results. The National Audit Office had received tips and information that there was something that scurried in the payments during this period – and that was it. What the Riksrevision has uncovered, appears to refer to the idea of camaraderie and the lack of control over how the allocation funds, which are people's taxpayers' money, have been used. This is detrimental to the confidence of the ministry, the government, the grant administration, and not least to us as elected representatives. The National Audit Office is critical that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not control how the money was spent, and that the Department broke the rules of procedure and did not take the question of stability seriously. Money that should have gone for other purposes has gone to the day-to-day operation of the IPI, because the ministry has not followed up the inflated administrative contributions to the precisely IPI. I'd like to stay at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' lack of stability assessment. Only in 2012, four years later, did the Minister of Foreign Affairs consider Støre's stability to the IPI. The Ministry’s Legal Department carried out feasibility assessments of policy management and staff in the Ministry in connection with grant payments to precisely IPI in 2012. This assessment showed that conditions were in order for the dispatch manager to be incapacitated. The Head of Mission was part of the procedure for grants to IPI throughout the Riksrevisions investigation period. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has strengthened both systems and compliance with requirements and rules considerably in recent years. This case shows that it has been absolutely necessary. I note that the National Audit Office still believes there is a need for action and that the Ministry should ensure that current control systems and subsidies are used in line with the objectives set. I also notice that the Government of the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that this matter is being followed up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e398	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e416	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e423	First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Norwegian OL participants in Beijing on their excellent results. 16 gold and 37 medals surpass what all other nations have delivered in the Olympic Winter Games. Our Olympic participants are undoubtedly good ambassadors for Norway. So to the matter: an overall committee shares the opinion of the proposers that the increasingly frequent award of international championships to countries with critical human rights conditions is a challenge. However, it is sport itself that chooses host countries for such events. Diplomatic boycott is not intended to affect the participation of Norwegian practitioners in sport, but the presence of official Norway at international events. Diplomatic boycott thus becomes a foreign policy instrument which also has symbolic consequences for sport. It follows from the first paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law that foreign policy, including Norway's diplomatic representation, is the government's prerogative. It has therefore not been a practice in Norway to carry out either diplomatic boycotts of sporting events or that the Stortinget instructs the government to do so. Different Norwegian governments have promoted and promoted our views on democracy and human rights issues in other countries through ordinary diplomacy. So to the reasons for the majority of the committee not to support the proposal on diplomatic boycott: there has been a long tradition that the Norwegian government is present in Olympic and paralympic games like Norwegian sports federations. This has also been the approach when the O.L. has been arranged in countries that have a different form of government from ours, and with which we have a political disagreement. Norway has no tradition of diplomatic boycott of sporting events. The majority believe that the threshold for using such an instrument must be high. At a time of geopolitical rivalry, the use of the different instruments of foreign policy will become even more important in Norway’s external relations. Disagreement between countries in individual areas should be avoided in order to close the possibility of dialogue and cooperation in other areas. It shall not prevent Norway from being clear in its criticism of human rights violations in response to authoritarian regimes when necessary. That also applies to China.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e438	It's a little special today to be discussing the boycott of the OL in China, a little bit because the situation in the world is as it is, but most because the OL is actually over, and the Norwegian government was not present. It wasn't because of boycott, but, as we know, the foreign minister had corona. I agree with the proposers that there is reason to be critical that authoritarian regimes are to a greater extent those who get major sporting events, and that they are used by different countries to clean themselves in a way, but the responsibility to clean up it lies primarily in sport. From the Norwegian side, there is no tradition of diplomatic boycott by the OL or other major events. On the contrary, it is common for Norway to participate, both in support of our practitioners and in political talks. It was planned that it would also take place in Beijing, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs would meet his Chinese colleague. I think it was a pity that we didn't get to that meeting, because I think it was a very important meeting to discuss, given the world we're living in right now, relevant security policy issues, but also issues related to the Norwegian-Chinese relationship and, of course, human rights. Because there is reason to be very concerned about the human rights situation in China, not least the situation of the Uighurs and the situation in Hong Kong. Talking together is essential to change, and Norway will use every opportunity for political discussions, including on demanding issues with people with whom it disagrees. The policy shall not govern sport. It does the sport very well yourself. But what's an example of the opposite is the ski agreement that was concluded by the previous government. There, sport was used as a means of political dialogue, and against the will of sport, it was decided to use funds to train China to make success in skiing in the Olympics in Beijing. It was an agreement signed by Norway's ambassador on behalf of the Ministry of Culture, and the previous government has been very difficult to take responsibility for that agreement. This agreement was signed under Erna Solberg's management and was managed by the state councils Trine Skei Grande and Abid Raja. That is why I believe that the high profile of the Left in this case will be a little hollow when it was just their government that combined sport and politics. I think that's a little classic left in these things, where they're very high and dark in opposition, but they do something else in government. The same is true of the question of the free trade agreement, by which the Left has suddenly become very strongly opposed, when we know that the one who led the negotiations and negotiated what is now, was the Council of State Iselin Nybø. Let me end by saying that sport and politics have gained a new meaning over the past week. With Russia's international war against Ukraine, I think it has been nice to see how Norwegian sport itself takes responsibility and excludes Russia from a series of trials, as a protest against the cruel images we now see right in front of our eyes. I will end by saying that when you read the comments in the case, it becomes a little special today to see how SV and Red use this case to mark their resistance to NATO, when they write about the main division of Norwegian politics and how NATO is responsible for international law violations, killing on civil and systematic torture of millions of people. I'm not going to turn this issue into a NATO debate, but you can read through the comments and see if they meet today's situation very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e459	As the representative of Elvenes, I would also like to congratulate the Norwegian representatives in Beijing on their historic efforts, and not least on their standing as good sportsmen. It is – as was also said earlier – of course a little special to discuss a boycott when the OL is finished, and it is also special to discuss some of the principal aspects that lie behind such a proposal, when we have a situation like the one we have around us in Europe right now. Strengthening international human rights is a high priority in Norwegian foreign and development policy. This is also underlined in the Hurdal platform, where the government indicates that we will fight against violations of international law and human rights wherever they may take place. That is a very ambitious objective. The Central Party agrees that it is a challenge that countries with critical human rights situations have consistently been awarded international championships. It is important that organisations in the field of sport — and others too — because there are many parameters behind the choice of venue for championships — use their taboos and speakers to influence this in the right direction. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that sport itself makes the choice of host countries for such events. Sport and politics should, in line with Norwegian tradition, be as mixed as possible. By hitting the official Norwegian presence at international events, a diplomatic boikot will become a foreign policy instrument with a symbolic impact on sport at the same time. Clear diplomacy and dialogue are also important. This includes meeting those we disagree with. Wide dialogue with Chinese authorities also provides opportunities to discuss issues where we disagree, including challenges related to human rights. Developments in Hong Kong are also worrying, and it is very important that we address these issues with the Chinese authorities and the UN. If we look at Qatar, the government has maintained conversations in connection with the football World Cup. We've seen positive changes in Qatar in the field of human rights in recent years. The preparations have also created a constant searchlight in Qatar, also thanks to the Norwegian press. However, it remains to be seen whether these changes are implemented, but dialogue remains an important tool. We also have to say, and clarify, that both the Norwegian Football Federation, the LO, Amnesty Norway and several other organisations have been involved in putting a political spotlight on this in the media, and that is very positive. What's positive about it is that you're made aware of concretely what's going on, and you put the searchlight on the conditions for especially workers and other human rights issues in Qatar. At the same time, it is very important that we are very clear to Qatar that we expect the authorities to ensure freedom of the press both before, during and after the World Cup, and that we cannot be concerned about the security and working conditions of foreign journalists. At a time of increased geopolitical rivalry and unforeseeability, Norway has served a constructive section of foreign policy. This does not prevent Norway from being clear in its criticism of, among other things, violations of human rights in the face of authoritarian regimes, but one should avoid conflicts between countries in individual areas closing the doors of dialogue and cooperation in other areas. The threshold for using instruments such as diplomatic boycott must therefore be very high. Foreign policy, including Norway's diplomatic representation, is very important in the world, and in the diplomatic representation we have the opportunity to engage in dialogue. It has not been a practice in Norway to carry out either diplomatic boycotts of sporting events or that the Stortinget instructs the government to do so. No matter where the toys are held, it is important for Norway to support our sportsmen, while promoting dialogue and action on human rights, which is very well anchored in this government’s platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e480	Any debate under the responsibility of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence appears at present a little insignificant, almost irrelevant. It's demanding today to show a very high level of commitment. But this thing is a little bit different, the one we're in the middle of. We are talking about Russia and about the exception that has been made on arms exports – which nobody in this room thought we would ever get an exception. It would also be considered that in this situation we may also have exemptions for the participation of Russian athletes in various sporting events. So it's not that any principle cannot have an exception, but it's still that principles should not be broken on a regular basis. It is better to change the principles and change the practice. So the principle is that it is the government's responsibility to exercise foreign policy. It is, of course, tempting for a majority to pursue foreign policy in this Chamber, but it has not been said that there is anything more right for that reason. Of course, the government can choose to leave if you get that kind of instruction, but I still think we should deal with what is natural practice in Norway. According to the views of the Progress Party, sport itself has to decide where the events are to take place, and it is not natural then for diplomatic offences to be committed or to mark it with diplomatic absence. This can also be extended to other cultural events, for where should the boundary really go when this kind of government instruction is to be determined by the Storting? And then the question is, what is an authoritarian state? There'll be different definitions of that in this room. According to Red, it is when working conditions are not in line with the working conditions we have. Some would argue that the environment should be crucial – climate challenges that are not listened to. The definition in Wikipedia is that if opinions from citizens are not taken into account, it is a typical example of an authoritarian way of ruling a country. Then we've come into a situation where we have different definitions and we're trying to take over control, and where the majority of this case is first going to decide what is an authoritarian state, and then we're going to decide that the government is to be instructed. That is why this proposal is really completely wasted. It's a shame to make such suggestions. It really doesn't mean anything, except to mark yourself in the media that you're more for human rights and more for authoritarian states than anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e493	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur and the rest of the Committee for the good and orderly consideration of the proposal, which is promoted by the representative of Almeland and myself. Yesterday Oslo's rapporteur, Marianne Borgen, was one of many who posted images of the Holmenkoll hill in the colours of the Ukrainian flag. She wrote the following: ‘This evening, Holmenkollen shines beautifully in yellow and blue, in solidarity with Ukraine, but also to press FIS to understand that they must take a clear stand by shutting Russian practitioners out of the future.’ This is a clear example of the fact that politics and sport are not separate. I agree with those who say that it is a little absurd to discuss diplomatic boycott of Beijing-OL right now, over a week after the first part of the games is finished, but of course before Paralympics has started. Nevertheless, I believe that the second part of the proposal, to ask the government to draw up a strategy on how Norway will deal with diplomatic boycotts in connection with major international sporting events, is most relevant to the world we are now in. I also believe that the debate we have had in the matter now, most of all, shows that we need a strategy, precisely because there is a lot here we should debate in this Chamber. Let me also stress that I am grateful that neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor the Minister of Culture finally went to Beijing in connection with the games. No matter what the reason for the absence, I believe it was right that we did not participate with government councils in the Tribune. And in the light of the fact that President Putin was otherwise the great international guest at this event, I am convinced that if a Norwegian Council of State had participated, he would have repented on the trip in retrospect. I respect that parties have different views about the use of diplomatic boycott as a tool. This is precisely why I believe that Norway had served with a strategy for the use of diplomatic boikot, and it should not be easy to apply – the threshold should be high. This could have been made clear by a strategy. In addition, a strategy would have given us a more conscious relationship with both sports washing and the use of diplomatic boikot, because I believe the majority in this room fully agree with me that sports washing has taken on completely different dimensions now than before, and that we cannot shift responsibility to sports alone. Sports and politics are interrelated. There are some representatives who refer to Norwegian tradition as a reason why we should not use diplomatic boycott. But once the world has changed, I also believe that Norwegian diplomatic tools should change. No matter whether you are using such a strategy often, rarely or perhaps almost never, I think we would have earned a national debate on it. I will briefly take to heart the concerns of Red and SV that other parties will shade away from the boycotting of toys organized by NATO allies or other countries Norway otherwise has a close relationship with. I believe that this is a reconstructed issue. There is no doubt that diplomatic boycott is going to go against the worst regimes that are not moving closer to democracy but are moving further away. Today, there are countries in NATO that I do not want to define as democracies, and if such a country were to organise a major international competition, I think it should have been possible to discuss diplomatic boycott there as well. I therefore hope that the representatives of the Red and the SV – who unfortunately are not present in the Chamber today – will consider voting in favour of our proposal, which then does not impose any kind of restrictions on which countries can be covered by a boycott. Many people have pointed out that it is a bit funny to have this discussion now, after the games are over and in the middle of a war situation in Europe. What I'm left with after the development of the last weeks is how important it is not to give dictators more opportunities than necessary to emphasize their own power and excellence. Xi has used Beijing-OL in the same way that Putin tried to use Sochi, and that Qatar will use football World Cup. One thing is that sports organisations themselves decide where competitions are going to take place, and that the practitioners themselves have to decide whether to participate, but why should we shine over the dictators' gallery? I think it's wrong, and I hope we stay away from the next crossroads. Last week's discussion on arms exports has shown us that in new situations, references to traditions are not sufficient to justify a position. The world is no longer like before, and that also means that we need to find new solutions. At the same time, we have shown that we can find new solutions if we want to, both in Norway and in cooperation with other countries. We can develop vaccines at record speed, we can adopt comprehensive sanctions, and Norway can deliver weapons to Ukraine. Everything is possible if we have the political will to do so, and when human rights are at stake, it is also our condemned duty – to quote the German Chancellor. With that, I am promoting the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e522	The representative Guri Melby has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e527	As others have said, it is rather odd to discuss diplomatic boycott of the Olympics after the majority of the games are over – Paralympics remains, but still. At the same time, unfortunately, the last few weeks have again updated the relationship between sport, sport and political responses. Whatever the timing of this debate, I believe it is important to speak in clear terms and clearly about the negative developments in human rights in China. We must protest against the detention and repression of Muslim Uighurs. We must protest against the systematic indoctrination of hundreds of thousands of children in Tibet. We must protest against the increasing grip of the Chinese regime on the population in Hong Kong. Yes, the list of human rights violations in today's China is unfortunately long. A short time ago, the so-called World Watch List for 2022 was published by the Open Doors organization. It reveals how Chinese authorities also tightened their response to nearly 100 million Christians in the country. Among other things, 3,000 churches are shut down in connection with the pandemic, and little indicates that they will reopen in the aftermath of the crisis. We see the same thing from Tibetan monasteries and Muslim mosques. The Christian People’s Party supports Norway’s continuation of active dialogue with Chinese authorities, while at the same time never failing to address China’s violation of fundamental human rights. This morning I met representatives of the Uighurs here in Norway, the Tibet Committee and the Hong Kong Committee. We got strong stories, and it was pointed to unfathomable suffering and systematic abuse and surveillance. We also got concrete things to follow up more post OL, which we will follow up on further. While we continue to support contact and dialogue, we believe and believe that it is unwise to set up within the propaganda frameworks that we knew that the Chinese authorities were offering around the Olympics. The Christian People's Party has been aware that there was no reason why the Norwegian government should shed political light on the increasingly totalitarian Chinese regime, and we urged the government to drop planned China travels during the Olympics. The Government, as mentioned earlier today, has been given specific responsibility under the Constitution for foreign policy. There is a caution from Stortinget to instruct the government in that kind of question. The Christian People's Party will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal for a representative, as it stands. But we are still as clear in our call: it was and is still a bad idea to throw political glamour over the increasingly totalitarian Chinese regime by setting up under the Olympics.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e538	The Committee has expressed in its opinion that the award of international championships to countries with critical human rights situations is a ‘challenge’ and that is a view I share. This may lead to a different discussion about major sporting events in Norway. There are often divisions across political parties, but that is not what we are discussing here today. Strengthening human rights is a high priority in the government's foreign policy, and so it has been through changing governments. The proposers address the human rights situation in China and Qatar, and I am very concerned about the human rights situation in China. We call on the Chinese authorities to respect human rights, to stop the arbitrary detention of Uighurs and other minorities and to give unhindered access to the region of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and I talked to her about it yesterday. Developments in Hong Kong are also worrying, and we will continue to address this in our discussions with the Chinese authorities. That's exactly why I'm against conversational boycott, because I think we're going to talk to every country with which we want to address different situations, whether it's on the employee's side or it's about equality or fair distribution. I also share the representatives' description of the situation in Qatar and the challenges it faces, and the arrest of Norwegian journalists in November 2021 is an example of the fact that freedom of expression and the press is a long way back in the country. We focus on the human rights situation, and the authorities in Qatar are very well aware of what is Norwegian point of view. We regularly address this in the UN context, in the ILO and in direct dialogue with the authorities. We believe that there is a need for legislative changes to contribute to the improvement of human rights in the country, but it requires that implementation is able to enforce this under the conditions. In a time of increasing polarization and contrast, it is all the more important that we talk together and that diplomatic channels are kept open. Then I will briefly explain what is government's strategy in this area. It is that we support an independent sport, and that sport is the ones that have to take these decisions, and then we support the decisions taken by the sport regarding participation in various sporting events. I believe that in principle underlines what is the Norwegian sport model in a nutshell, and under which the government supports it. Then «sports washing» has been brought up as a new word that is all reason to address, but I really do not think that «sports washing» works very well. We see, on the contrary, that those countries that are awarded major international championships are getting increased focus from journalists and from politicians on challenges, whether they are workers' rights or the human rights situation. So I didn't go to Beijing, because I got covid, but I think it was a shame, because then I didn't get the opportunity to answer those questions where we disagree with Chinese authorities. I've done that several times before. I have done so as the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee at Stortinget, both in China and here at Stortinget, once we have received representatives of the Chinese authorities. So I think it's important. Norway has no tradition of diplomatic boycott of sporting events, but we support sport’s view in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e564	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State expresses very clear support for the commitment to human rights. Nor am I in doubt that the Council of State shares it and uses all the arenas that the Council of State has to raise that particular issue. I have two questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Firstly, there is a desire to use such arrangements to engage in dialogue with countries on human rights issues. When we tried to dig a little bit into this before Beijing-OL, it turned out that the Minister of Culture, who was going to travel, had no plans at least for meetings where there was an opportunity to raise human rights issues. Are we dependent on participating in this kind of event to have dialogue? I think it should be possible both to have dialogue with a country and at the same time not to participate in that type of event. The second question is: I understand that we do not want to support our direct proposal not to participate in Beijing-OL, but our second proposal, on a strategy to discuss different aspects of the use of diplomatic boycott, I find it a little more difficult to understand that we do not support it. Does this mean that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes it is impossible to imagine a situation in which boikot will be a current instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e573	The strategy is very clear: sport determines, and we support the decisions made by sport itself. That's the core of the Norwegian sports model. If the representative of the Left felt otherwise, it is a bit striking that no strategy was put in place at the time they themselves set up and directed the Ministry of Culture, but that this strategy is needed only now. It has been known for a long time that football World Cup will take place in Qatar and that the Olympics will take place in Beijing. As far as the Minister of Culture is concerned, there were some limited opportunities for meetings during this Olympics because of the covid situation, but one of the reasons why I was going to leave was that I could have a meeting with my colleague, the Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs. That was also the prerequisite that I wanted to take part in the opening ceremony under the Olympics, that I could do both parts, that is, both raise questions where we agree and disagree and participate in this sporting event. I think that was a good solution, which unfortunately we could not implement because I got covid.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e580	The sports decide, says the Council of State. That's right, it's the sport that decides where to hold the event and whether to participate in it. But it's not the sport that decides if the Foreign Minister should attend an event, is it the government that does?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e585	That's what's at the root of this, that the decisions the sport itself has taken, we're in favour of supporting. When Norwegian athletes decide to participate in a championship and we are invited as guests by the Norwegian Sports Association, I believe it is natural to participate. That is what is at the heart of our policy on major sporting events and cultural events. Making a strategy where you grade different parts of authoritarian regimes, where you have your own rules for some cultural events, I don't think it fits reality. The reality is that there are many countries in the world that are different degrees of authoritarian, and our basic attitude is that sport must make its own decisions. I believe that the sport in the future is going to be busy just having major sporting events in countries like Norway, and then I hope that across different parties we can look at the possibility of contributing to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e592	Although I think most of us really want a sport that is independent of politics, I think that in particular the last few days underline how closely this is connected. Sport is also a part of society, and it is impossible to look at it detached from society. However, I note that the Council of State in its reply now and also in its statement raises the possibility that Norway might take responsibility for ensuring that sporting events are also held in countries to which we believe it might be easier to travel. So my question to the Council of State is, does this government have any plans for Norway to apply for a major sporting event?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e599	Also in this area, I have to stick to what's our principle approach: it's never the government that's applying for the Olympics or big sporting events, it's the sport itself that does. That is the core of the Norwegian sport model, under which I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, am supporting it. So I believe that the last few days have proved that we stand firm on those principles in a very good way. When it comes to major sporting events now, we have not instructed sport in any way. The sport rules itself, and then we support the decisions taken by the sport. I believe that is very good also in the situation we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e604	I don't think there's any disagreement that sports themselves are going to decide on their own participation. I am very happy that the sport has been very clear when it comes to, among other things. Russian participants in major event right now. Nevertheless, sport depends on substantial political support if it is to implement events, such as: an event like the Olympics, for which we wanted to hold in Oslo in 2022, and for which I wish we had had an impact. It was stopped because it was not a political will or a desire to support that event. So the question is: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs want to signal a positiveness associated with such an event if sport is to take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e611	I see this as a personal question, and I can only say that I fought hard for the O.L. to come to Tromsø, and then I worked for the O.L. to come to Oslo. Then we'll take it later in a clean way, and it's the sport itself that has to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e616	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e635	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e642	Yesterday, Ukraine submitted its application to be admitted as a member of the EU. This makes a strong impression. If someone wants peace today, it's the people of Ukraine. In the midst of the senseless and ruthless invasion that Putin's regime has launched with Russian forces, the Ukrainian people are looking towards Europe. That's where they find their long-term guarantee of freedom. For many of us, the EU as a project of freedom and peace has always been clear, while others have rejected this. To those who do not yet see this, I would like to ask: where do they think Ukraine should go rather than to Europe? We, Norway, are also a country on the outskirts of Europe, but to our heel it is at a peaceful edge. Such a privileged position cannot be taken by other countries for granted. As the rapporteur on this matter, I believe that today's dramatic situation requires that all parties present their views on the issue of the EU and Norway's place in Europe, especially parties which have opposed European integration. The situation has suddenly changed from when the proposal was put forward, and it calls for a clear position. For all practical purposes, we can already conclude that solitary confinement is not a dangerous road. In the short term, we hope that the world community will do what is necessary to help the Ukrainian people. In the longer term, this is the time to remember how invaluable European cohesion is, not only to ensure the prosperity and security of European citizens, but also to uphold the idea of peace and democracy. The representative proposal we have to deal with was promoted by the Left before Putin sent Russian forces across the border to Ukraine. It therefore deals with less dramatic issues which equally fully address small parts of the European cooperation works. We support the intention of the proposal. It is absolutely invaluable for Norway's place in the world that our cooperation with our European partners is the closest possible. The right also supports several of the sub-proposals and addresses the proposals we have made together with the Left in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e653	The representative Injerd Schou has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e658	Norway's continent is Europe. We affect Europe, and everything that happens in Europe affects us. This last week we've really seen how close we are -- that we're one continent, that we stand together when it's needed. The war in Ukraine has created the worst in us – war, oppression, suffering and killing – but it has also brought out the best in us, like Europe. Cohesion, solidarity and European community have been shown. The West has been united on both sides of the Atlantic – regardless of membership of both the EU and NATO, it has been possible to stand together. The Workers' Party-Center Party government will pursue an active European policy for Norwegian interests, which ensures Norwegian jobs, rights and well-being, and which is part of the European Community for our common challenges. Most of the challenges we face as countries can only be solved together. It is the acute safety management we are currently conducting, the fight against pandemics and not least what will be the big issue for many years to come: the climate crisis. But what an active European policy is is not an answer with two lines under it – because we have different policy objectives here in this Chamber, because Norway is changing, and because Europe is changing. That is why we need to have a constant debate on what is our European policy and on how best to take care of Norwegian interests. What seems clear across blocks and across governments in the last 30 years is that the EEA Agreement is our link to Europe. The new government will carry out an investigation into how the EEA Agreement has been in the last ten years, based on how the EU has changed and how we have changed, and based on how the space we have as a non-EU country, but as part of the EEA, can be better used. I look forward to that investigation because it will give us knowledge that will be useful to all of us. It will show what the EEA Agreement is and what it is not. Sometimes we see that the EEA Agreement is used as an argument for its own policy, even if it is not the case. We have a larger space of action than we sometimes give expression to. Some are afraid that an investigation will jeopardise the EEA Agreement. I totally disagree; I believe on the contrary that an investigation will strengthen the EEA Agreement and that more knowledge will be positive. Then, a number of proposals have been put forward – the Labour Party is going to vote against everyone – where the main point is that we are going to discuss Norwegian EU membership. It may be an interesting discussion that you have in the different parties, but it is not a topic for the investigation that will give you more knowledge about how the EEA Agreement has affected us in the last ten years. A number of other proposals have also been made. Several of them are interesting and good in themselves, whether it is an industrial partnership with the EU or how we should be better equipped for the 'Clear for 55' package, but we believe that they belong in completely different discussions than in a discussion on the EEA investigation. That is why the Labour Party and the Centre are voting against all the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e673	There is close cooperation between Norway and our Nordic and European partners today. At a time when authoritarian forces, nationalism and xenophobia are on the rise, the government and we in the Central Party will stand up clearly for the values of an open and cooperating Europe. We clearly see the importance of being together today, primarily NATO, but also the UN is calling for a Europe of war, where Russia's destructive forces have turned out from its worst side. I also think it is important to remember the UN as an organisation where everyone is involved. And we know that the resolution on the war in Ukraine is being raised in the main assembly with voting relatively soon. It is an important clarification, not least a clear and clear signal of how important the United Nations believes it is to bring the rest of the world community. The Hurdal platform states that the EEA Agreement should form the basis for Norway’s relationship with Europe. In this platform, the government is taking the initiative to investigate the experience of EEA cooperation over the past decades. It is very important to clarify the experience of other related countries outside the EU from their relationship with European cooperation, and, in particular, to explore in detail the experiences that include: the energy market has recently created. Here the government will, among other things, enter into dialogue with the EU with a view to ensuring Norway exemption from parts of the fourth rail package of the EU. The previous investigation on EEA cooperation was submitted in 2012. ‘Outside and within Norway’s agreement with the EU’ was the name of that investigation. It is over ten years old, and it is absolutely mature for a review. As indicated in the Hurdals platform, the Government of the EEA is underpinning Norway’s relationship with Europe. In other words, an assessment of the EU Member State option will not be included in the investigation; it has been made clear at all times. The Government shall then work more actively to promote Norwegian interests within the framework of the Agreement, and the EEA Agreement shall put into operation with particular emphasis on ensuring national control in areas such as Norwegian working life, energy and rail. In order to ensure high professional quality, legitimacy and credibility, this investigation will also be carried out by a research and knowledge-based and, not least, broad-based sample. It is very important to ensure Norwegian interests and ownership, and not least the possibility of developing Norwegian industry, become prominent. Climate and environment are important. The government also wants closer and more strategic industrial cooperation with the aim of helping a Norwegian business to seize new opportunities for value creation and exports that open up through the transition that we generally have. This can create jobs throughout Norway. Norway is already participating in a number of EU programmes relevant to Norwegian industry, including Horizon Europe and the EU Innovation Fund, and is participating in the ETS quota system. The proposals in the Ready for the 55 package are now being discussed in the EU. Here we work closely to convey Norwegian views and positions. The EU, the EEA system and the EEA Agreement are a potential arena. It is also very important to ensure that the space for action available is used to safeguard the interests we are concerned with in Norway. Here you have to have a good dialogue, I'm going to say we have a good dialogue, but it makes sense to go in and look at and define what the space for action is. The space for action is always defined from the political point of view of the government at all times. The government says no with this, among other things. is the privatisation of the railway example of what we are looking at. There are two different views with two different governments. It is clear that the action space needs to be challenged, and that is a way of checking whether it is possible to implement another kind of policy within the same framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e692	On behalf of the rapporteurs, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy and the rapporteur, Mr Schou, for their conscientious consideration. It feels like we were in a different age when we presented this proposal for more European cooperation in October. At the same time, the timing of the debate is quite appropriate, because it is precisely European cohesion and cooperation that we need more to deal with the enormous challenges facing Ukraine and the rest of Europe right now. The starting point for this proposal was our understanding that the challenges of today and the future are international, and that we are solving them best together with our European friends and partners, whether it is about cutting greenhouse gas emissions while creating new, green jobs, regulating the tech giants or standing together when dictatorships are trying to threaten freedom and democracy. The answer for Norway lies in Europe. I don't think a day has gone by without the Nordics having been happy that Norway has such strong cooperation across national borders, whether it is cooperation with the EU or NATO membership. It is hardly possible to imagine how we had experienced the situation we are now facing without the links to the EU and NATO. I will go so far as to say that it is impossible to oppose international cooperation in the world in which we now stand with both legs planted. When we promoted this proposal, it was also in response to a government platform that was poor on concrete European policy – except in a few areas: the government said no to power cables for Europe, the government would make better use of the EEA Agreement action space, and the government would explore alternatives to the EEA Agreement in order to obtain a better factual basis. I have repeatedly asked representatives from the government parties why it is important to acquire knowledge from outside the EEA, while it seems a little uninteresting to gain knowledge from our neighbouring countries, such as Sweden, Denmark and Finland, all of which have a long experience with the opportunities of a country as an EU member. Unfortunately, I have never received a good answer to this, other than a repetition of the fact that a factual basis for countries outside the EEA is very important. On a day like today, when Ukraine and several banks at the European Union’s door to get in, it is very special that Norway’s government should explore alternatives to the EEA. Because it's not like it's rosy in countries outside the EU and the EEA. In the United Kingdom, it appears that more and more people want to return to the EU. The relationship between Switzerland and the EU is on the brink of collapse after years of standstill and failed negotiations. Then there are also countries that are involuntarily outside the EU and the EEA or similar agreements – such as Ukraine, such as Georgia, Bosnia and Moldova. I guess the government is less interested in investigating these forms of association, but it's worth looking at the experience they've gained in standing outside. The Prime Minister himself recently wrote about his experience from the lobby at Sofitel Hotel in Brussels, while EU Heads of State met in the Council of the European Union. Sitting on the outside and looking in requires a lot, especially in these days. We join the EU's sanctions, and I am very pleased about that, but we have limited opportunities to influence them ourselves. The EU creates its own fund to support Ukraine’s defence capabilities. We can only join this after it's finished. It is difficult for me to imagine that Norway’s future will be somewhere other than in very close cooperation with the EU. Today’s EEA agreement has served business well, but we are living in a different age – an agreement from 1994 is just as inefficient to address today’s challenges as a 1959 decision is to decide whether Norway should support Ukraine with arms supplies. There are many proposals in this position, and I am pleased to address all the proposals, including those that I myself have made in dealing with the matter in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. However, the main proposal concerns this: if the government insists on exploring alternatives to the EEA, they must also explore the experience of our neighbouring countries, which entered the EU in the 1990s, and which have since not looked back. It has never been as clear as now as Norway is dependent on the EU and how impossible it is for Norway to solve complex international challenges alone. I hope this can be the starting point for a major debate on Norway's future relations with Europe, in which exceptions and spaces for action are replaced by cooperation and room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e717	The representative of Guri Melbye has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e722	The proposal is – and I think everyone understands it – a new rematch to get Norway into the EU. We've had that debate many times, and this is a sobbing or sobbing or what I'm going to call it. It is at least an attempt to get us into the EU or to join even closer to the EU, so that we de facto become EU members. I don't know how the representatives from the Left and the Right experience it, but I don't feel a screaming wish out there about Norwegian EU membership and less self-determination. You could say you should ignore it because we're going to raise ourselves above the people and do what we think is right, but there should be a little mix here – and the people should also be involved in assessing this. The Progress Party supports the EEA Agreement and we support Norwegian membership of NATO – NATO for Security and the EEA Agreement for Trade. It's worked well. The representative Melby was concerned that we should look at how Finland, Sweden and Denmark had joined the EU, but I assume that the representative Melby will not look at what it is like for Finland and Sweden not to be a member of NATO and determine what it would be like. Here, there's some inconsistency in the argumentation. It is not that the EEA Agreement does not work. What I understand the government will do is see if there are parts of the EEA agreement that we can do better or that can be different. Clearly, it is a challenge for us to sit in the European Committee and adopt new regulations and arrangements from the European Union without any real influence on them – that we cannot say no, but must say yes. I think that is a challenge, and so does the Progress Party. So looking at alternatives to the EEA should not be a problem. This does not mean that we need to look at how the EU works. I believe that most people have registered how the EU works, and it is clear that if you want to join the EU's policies in other areas, you would like to argue about it, but not with the spin-off that we have agreed on, and ask the people that we should not have. That's not what the people have said, and then we're dealing with the people. They say it was in 1994, and that you need to see if the agreement is not working so well. Isn't that why the government might have to look at how well it works – but not define that it doesn't work? That's a kind of weird way of looking at this. The Progress Party does not want to support any of these proposals, because we see them as a sign-up in the EU or perhaps a way to go to its own voters. I don't know how the Left and Right voters stand for this, but the feedback I get from our voters – or otherwise in society – is at least not that there is a need to give us even more national autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e737	This discussion comes in the light of something else, in the light of what we see in Ukraine. I just want to explain what our cooperation with the EU is in this situation, and it is about us being very closely coordinated. Remember that the EU does not have an agreement with any other area as extensive as the EU has through the EEA Agreement, nor does Norway have such a comprehensive agreement in any area as what we have with the EU through the EEA Agreement. Clearly, we are coordinating very closely with the European Union. Similarly, Sweden and Finland are very connected to what is happening in NATO, when we are in such a foreign policy crisis as we are now facing. When we have Denmark, which is a member of both NATO and the EU, Norway and Iceland, which is a member of NATO, and Sweden and Finland, which are a member of the EU, we are very good at keeping in regular contact, updating each other. Then there is someone who says that it can be difficult to sit on the page and not participate with EU foreign ministers. Yes, there may be disadvantages associated with it. At the same time, we feel that we have very close contacts in all possible ways, and it is clear that, after the enlargement of the European Union, perhaps the Nordic region as a community has become even more important in coordinating our work. An open European debate is also important. There are advantages and disadvantages of Norwegian EU membership, and there are different views in all political parties on the Stortinget. However, I think that the EEA Agreement as a national compromise has served Norway well. We have been given good care of our interests, but in many areas we depend on close coordination with the EU, especially in foreign policy. This applies not least to the relationship with China. We have underlined in the government platform that we see it as an advantage to be close to allying and co-ordinated with the EU, and especially the Nordic countries, in terms of our relationship with China. In view of the situation we see in Ukraine, we fully supported the sanctions adopted by the EU in 2014 and also those adopted by them now. We want an investigation that highlights the new challenges and opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement to Norway over the last decades. We also want to look at the experience of other related countries outside the EU from their relationship with European cooperation. The Government bases the EEA Agreement on Norway’s relationship with the EU. It would therefore not be appropriate to include an assessment of EEA membership options in the investigation, as proposed by the representatives of the Left and Right. This may be the subject of a national debate – there are different political views – and it must go on and on. Nor was it in the mandate of the previous EEA study, from 2012, which was called Outside or within – Norway’s agreements with the EU. I note that the government here has the support of a majority of the committee's members. We are now in the process of setting up the sample to carry out the investigation, and we suggest that the work can be started during March. The committee will present its report in the form of a NOU in October 2023. Now it's clear that the foreign policy situation has put something on hold, but that's what's meant, as soon as possible. Compared to the EEA investigation in 2012, this will be more limited. EEA cooperation is to be explored, not all Norway’s agreements with the EU. The investigation is also limited in time, to experience over the last decades. The investigation should assess how the possibilities for cooperation are exploited and how the obligations of the agreement are implemented nationally. It will examine in particular the impact of the EEA Agreement on Norwegian citizens, Norwegian society, business, economy, including the importance of the Norwegian labour model and a decent working life. So, as I said at the outset, the EEA Agreement also has a foreign policy dimension that should be discussed, particularly in the light of geopolitical challenges, which are increasing major activisation and new security threats. It implies that the investigation has to assess the interfaces between the EEA Agreement and Norway’s relationship with the EU in areas currently outside the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e756	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e762	I'm just going to follow up on some of the things I didn't get mentioned in my first post. What I thought especially should come forward is one of the proposals. It is true that any investigation of the alternatives to the EEA Agreement must also contain views on what any Norwegian EU membership would entail for Norwegian citizens and Norwegian business. Then, as the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde said, people out there could make up their own qualified and informed opinion about what they want. The government has created significant confusion about its European policy and has not been able to explain what they want to achieve with their informed investigation of the EEA Agreement. When I hear the representative August say that someone has created uncertainty about the EEA and this investigation, I have to say that the government is doing well by itself. That’s what’s needed here – that you get cleaned up what you really want with an EEA investigation that doesn’t include what Ukraine has now done, namely to ask for membership of the EU. Previous investigations of the EEA Agreement have included an assessment of full membership, and it is not possible to shed light on our relationship with the EU without including membership as an alternative. In the time we now live in, I would argue that such clarification is more relevant than in the long term – yes, perhaps more than ever in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e771	The document 8 from the Left, which is being debated here, was an important and relevant proposal when it was presented, and it has become no less relevant and topical such a world and Europe has evolved over the last few weeks, not to mention the last few days. At least I have some thoughts when I hear representatives standing here in this Chamber, and talk about the fact that the EEA Agreement stands firm, that our relationship with Europe and the EU is solid and firm, as it has done since the EEA agreement was launched in 1994. Formally, it is correct, but in practice it is quite far from the truth, because Europe and the EU are developing at enormous speed. The EU is now driving in at least two of the most important and most important areas that must and must shape Norwegian policies for the years to come. One is the management of climate and natural crises, and the other is, of course, the security policy situation in Europe. Both of these areas are decisive for all of us. I think we've all seen more clearly and more clearly how common in Europe, if we're going to succeed in solving and coming out of these challenges, that in the light of history, it's going to be a little strange when the most important concrete point in the note from the Labour Party and the Center Party here is that we're going to try to seek exemptions from parts of the destinations of the fourth railway package to the EU. Then I think we're literally talking about a siding in the great passage of history in Europe. Therefore, the debate raised by the Left with these proposals is important. I can also reassure the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. He thinks this is a sneak call – I think he used it extensively – in the EU. In any case, it is the worst attempt of time at a so-called call to present a proposal for a representative in the national parliament asking to open a wide public debate on our relationship with Europe that is not only about how we can become less connected, but also about how we can become tighter and more connected. A sock input is definitely not that. This is an attempt to start a wide, public debate on how to get closer to that part of our creation irrevocably belongs to the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e784	Both the pandemic and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine have shown the value of a united Europe and a Europe that can respond quickly. What is good for Europe is also good for Norway. We know that from historical experience. It is no exaggeration to say that an investigation into the EEA Agreement’s possibilities and scope of action is not particularly sought. The EEA Agreement has served Norway very well. We're actually totally dependent on it. Every four jobs in the private sector, i.e. Norwegian industry, is export-oriented and is heavily dependent on the possibilities offered by the EEA Agreement. There is a lot of talk about replacing the EEA Agreement with a possible better agreement, but then you might have to ask for realism in it. Norway’s negotiating power vis-à-vis the EU has not become stronger since the EEA Agreement was negotiated in due time. The force ratio is distorted in the EU's favour. The best thing to say about an investigation is that it's kind of a diversion, and maybe you shouldn't underestimate the value of diversions. If such an investigation can help the EEA resistance of the Centre Party and parts of the trade movement toned down and at best disappear, which is perhaps a little unrealistic hope, one might say that such an investigation can serve a certain purpose. However, if it is to be a good investigation – and that should be – it should investigate all alternatives, and then the main option is Norwegian membership of the EU. Before starting an investigation, you might have studied carefully the investigations that already exist. There is a 900-page multi-binding network from 2012 which has investigated exactly what this investigation is to be re-examined, namely the EEA Agreement’s possibilities and scope for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e795	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e812	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e819	The draft representative we are now considering is promoted by the Left. Firstly, it is proposed to freeze the payment of EEA funds directly to Polish authorities, and there are also proposals to ask for payments to be made to Polish civil society through the Batory Foundation. The comments shall state, inter alia, the reasons for: ‘since the current National Conservative Polish Government came to power in 2015, it has tried to accumulate power by weakening civil society, opposition, media and the independence of the justice sector.’ They also refer to the continuous attempts of the Polish Government to undermine the rule of law, as ‘at a preliminary summit in October, when the Polish Constitutional Court stated that Poland could in the future disregard key fundamental principles of EU law.’ It is an overall committee that shares the concerns of the proposers about the situation in Poland. There's a trend there that goes in the wrong direction in many areas. We refer to the Foreign Minister’s statement on important EU and EEA issues for the Storting last November, where the Minister for Foreign Affairs announced that the Ministry will carry out a full review of the programme cooperation with Poland in order to ensure increased monitoring and control of Norway’s contributions. We see this as very important. The Committee also received letters from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 7 January of this year, where she writes that she will inform the Stortinge appropriately about this process. In the same letter, she also comments on one of the premises underlying the proposal to suspend payments to Poland. It specifies that the EEA funds are allocated to thematic programme areas under a menu established by the Norwegian authorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She also writes that the funds are not a support to the current government in Poland as such, and she writes that she can assure that the government is taking seriously the negative developments in Poland and is monitoring it constantly. The Committee considers that this is necessary and appropriate. The left and the left promote the two proposals contained in the draft representative, and I expect them to explain them. The rest of the Committee does not support the two proposals and the Committee proposes that the proposals be annexed to the Protocol. Finally, having this discussion today — at a time when Russia is violating international law — is perceived as a bit special — has attacked Ukraine, and refugees are flowing across the border with Poland. As I said, there is an overall committee that is concerned about development and that the situation in Poland is unsustainable in many ways, but it must then be possible to ask questions about whether it is right now that the proposals that are here today should be addressed. Europe will face a number of challenges in the coming period, and we are already seeing a humanitarian crisis escalating. I think you also have to choose the time and place, but it is up to the proposers to assess it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e838	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Eva Kristin Hansen, for a good review of the matter. I do not think it could have just crossed my mind that in the debates we have had on central international issues today, both the Green Party and the Socialist Left are totally absent in the Chamber. However, on this point: the right does not support the present proposal for a representative. Now it should be said that there is no doubt that there have been more critical developments in Poland in recent years. It concerns matters relating to the rule of law and the protection of minorities, so as not to forget what is absolutely central and that concerns fundamental human rights, the rule of law and the development of democracy. Both the EU and Norway, as the largest contributor of EEA funds, have criticised this. For the Right, it has been important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has warned that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will carry out a full review of programme cooperation with Poland in order to ensure increased monitoring and control of Norway’s contributions. It was otherwise also a position of the previous government and the foreign minister had. In its assessment of the proposal for a representative, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that the government intends to inform the Storting in an appropriate way about this review. I would like to remind you that the EEA funds are intended to ensure cooperation and social cohesion in Europe, and in addition, the funds are also intended to deepen relations between Norway and the recipient countries. As I mentioned in an article on a previous case today, Europe is in a time of destiny. The war in Ukraine clearly shows the value of European cooperation in order to ensure something as fundamental as peace, prosperity and stability. It is important and right to criticise Poland, as the draft representative suggests. At the same time, we must be extra careful about undermining European cohesion in this critical time. Poland shares the border with Ukraine. After just four days of war, the UN estimates that half a million Ukrainians are on the run, and Poland builds up its capacity to take care of these people. It is right now, in a critical time for Europe, that we must first and foremost look at the possibilities of gathering together, supporting each other and standing together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e849	We see that developments in Poland in several areas have been challenging, and Norway is also not alone in this concern. Nevertheless, it is the sum of initiatives, multilateral cooperation and increased attention over time that is expected to have the greatest effect. Of course, Norway shall not use the EEA funds for Polish programmes or projects which contribute to undermining fundamental values, democracy or the rule of law. The ongoing review of programme cooperation with Poland will ensure increased monitoring and control of Norway’s contribution. This is a natural process that will provide the basis for any new action against Polish authorities, and this is, of course, within the government’s remit. It is important that the call for change comes from within. Here, it is essential that the Polish people call for their democracy and their rule of law. This supports Norway, in particular through the EEA civil society funds. The operating space of the Government will also be subject to the legal framework and regulations. Here, Protocol 38c to the EEA Agreement forms the framework for the EEA funds, and the legal framework regulates when we as donor countries can sanction breaches of the rules. This therefore also includes the possibility of suspending transfers to programmes or projects and will lead to possible actions and reactions. It is important for Norway to deal with the existing contract agency. Norway will not be served to end up in a situation where we are criticized for not respecting the rule of law and in compliance with intergovernmental agreements. Poland, which is a very important partner for Norway, will play a crucial role, especially in terms of refugees and humanitarian aid, in the very difficult situation that has arisen in Europe following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Good cooperation and good and ongoing dialogue are very important here. For us, it is very important to stress that we do not use EEA funds as a means of pressurisation. Poland, together with a number of other central European countries, has sought to become part of a cooperation, a cooperation based on a common view of values. When these values are challenged and put under pressure, it's of course very important to say from now on. Every measure to ensure stability in Europe is important to our security, and we see this with great clarity right now. Only a few facts about the EEA funds in Poland: the country has received EEA funds since 2004, and for the current period it is set at EUR 809.3 million, divided into 13 programmes and funds. It is a major and important work done in Poland, and twelve Norwegian trade unions are partners in eleven of the programmes. Poland, like most other countries, wants to shape its own social development, and we are not served to complicate the relationship given the need for both labour, market access and not least NATO cooperation. Examples of cooperation with Poland under the EEA funds are very comprehensive, both innovation programmes, research programmes, climate and environmental programmes, asylum and migration and the cultural heritage of minorities. In the difficult situation now facing Europe, it is very important that we stand together and have a full focus on doing the best in a very demanding situation. Although it's a little side of what we're discussing today, it's the work you've had with Poland, an arena where dialogue has arisen, and I have full confidence that the government will take care of this, in both the short and the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e864	I will use my post to talk about our own comment on the matter. The Progress Party believes that we should work overall to reduce the EEA funds that we pay in. We think there's something that the government should give priority to and see if you can do, that's the total of what's being transferred. As Mr Fasterale said in his speech, some people actually need the right of self-confidence to look at their own national development. I think that is absolutely crucial, that we accept that other countries will evolve in the way they want. It takes some time to get the democratic regime that you want Poland to have. They come gradually, as all other countries in Europe have done, through cooperation and confidence. It has been shown throughout history that pushing a country to change its national culture, its national heritage and its national way of pursuing its own policies does not lead anywhere. It leads to hostility, completely unnecessary hostility. What you should build on is what binds the countries together, and that is quite a lot in Poland and Norway. The exchange of labour, our need for Polish labour, is essential, but not only labour, also what we see now the last, with refugees coming from Ukraine, where borders open. We need cooperation with Poland also in that field, and really we should boast of Poland. Market access is something else. We need market access to Poland, and we need not least cooperation in NATO. Why don't we look at the positive sides? I have challenged the Minister of Foreign Affairs before: if it is the case that we are going to impose on other countries how to develop their countries, and demand them to have it just like us, it is demanding for Poland, because they have a very conservative, religious country, unlike Norway. But we're also doing things that maybe others are protesting about. Some would argue that our oil production is climate-indispensable, and that Norway should be forced to end its oil production. We remember the stories of self-anguish and whaling – we could be pressured on it. When you talk about media: we have publicly funded media in Norway. We even have a state channel that we are funding, and we think it is perfectly normal and right, but we must protest at the freedom of the press and freedom of expression we believe to be taking place in Poland. Yeah, maybe what we think is going on, but maybe we should look at our own system as well, how we impose, finance and indirectly affect our own media, because there are some media that don't get support because the government and the Storing don't like them. We should also be aware of that, and therefore we should be a little careful. In this situation, when we see these refugees crossing the border with Poland, I would urge the Left and the SV to draw the proposals and take that discussion a completely different time and not today, because it is very inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e881	I would like to begin my speech by thanking the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy and the Advocate-General Eva Kristin Hansen for a thorough examination of this proposal, which was promoted by my party colleagues Guri Melby, Sveinung Rotevatn and Ingvild Wetterhus Thorsvik. Today, the conditions of freedom are under pressure in several European countries. In the shadow of what is happening in Ukraine today, there are decades of ever less democracy and more dictatorship in Russia. Putin's ability to erode the Russian judiciary, weaken the free media landscape and dominate the Russian party landscape is the background for us to see a Russian dictator about to invade another sovereign country. Developments in Poland have not gone as far as Russia has, but we see very alarming features that have led the proposers to promote this proposal last autumn. The lesson from what Russia is now doing must be that we must fight against impunity at every crossroads. The road is short from eroding the legal system to appoint a president for life. Let's see the warning lights that are now shining strongly in Poland. Let's draw a line in the sand today that shows that the EEA Agreement is based on democracy and the rule of law. Let's show that we take those principles seriously, and that it has consequences when other countries break them in their agreements with us. Both I and the proposers share the foreign minister's concern for developments in Poland. Several in this room have probably spoken to Polish and Norwegian lawyers who can report that what is happening in Poland is part of a comprehensive strategy to eliminate the ability of the courts to act as an independent review body for the citizens of Poland. The objective is simple, namely to ensure a continued national conservative regime in Poland after the next elections. Negative developments in Poland have gone on for a long time, but it was not until October last year that it reached a preliminary peak. At that time, the Polish Constitutional Court stated that Poland could in future disregard key fundamental principles of EU law. It is the same as saying that Poland must no longer take into account the core principles underlying the EU but also the EEA Agreement. The situation worsened further in November 2021. The Polish Constitutional Court then declared that a fair trial under the European Convention on Human Rights is unconstitutional. This is a development that is more than worrying. There is a development that has gone so far that it is now difficult to regard Poland as a functioning legal state. That is also why neither the proposers nor I can say we are pleased that the Foreign Minister is following the situation. A former State governed by law is no longer a State governed by law and cannot be treated as such. In its letter to the Committee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs gives the impression that Norway is obliged to continue payments to Poland. This is a truth with modifications. The EEA Agreement is a Treaty of international law that allows for proportionate response when the counterparty violates all or part of the agreement. What is more fundamental to the EEA Agreement than the understanding that there is an agreement between liberal democracies? We have both an opportunity and an obligation to respond to the negative developments in freedom and democracy that we see in Poland. The funds going to the Polish state are, of course, not used directly by Polish authorities, but distributed by Polish authorities. It gives the government power and prestige to be able to distribute these funds. I mention this because the foreign minister in his letter of reply points to this as a reason why it is not so important that it is Polish authorities that distribute the funds. We should now listen to Polish civil society and to the association of courts, which are aware that the Norwegian funds contribute to repression and hinder their work. We can't have this on our conscience. It is with a heavy heart that the representatives of the Left are proposing to freeze the EEA payments. We believe that EEA funds are important for Europe, but they are also important for Norway’s influence in Europe. No matter how much it hurts, there may be no reason to avoid when the counterparty does not maintain its side of the agreement. We do not want to hit independent Polish civil society. That is why today we are promoting two proposals: one to freeze payments to the Polish state and one to defend EEA payments through the independent Batory Foundation. It is a pleasure for me, on behalf of the Left, to bring up the proposals of the Left's representative in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, which have been promoted during the committee procedure, together with representatives of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e909	The representative, Sofie Högestøl, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e914	First, it is important to say that Poland is now accepting very many refugees from Ukraine, and what we are saying from the Norwegian side now is thank you. I have thanked the Polish Foreign Minister for the solidarity that Poland has shown, and I have asked what we can do to support Poland in the difficult situation they face. I will commend them for the efforts they have made. I am also very confident that the Great Britain and the Government are critical of the political developments in Poland, and we have common objectives in this area. What instruments we have and how they are to be used are not always the same. It is an important principle for all that Norway should under no circumstances use EEA funds for programmes and projects in Poland which contribute to undermining fundamental values, democracy and the rule of law. In my statement on important EU and EEA issues for the Storting last November, I announced that I would review the programme work with Poland. The aim is to ensure increased monitoring and control of Norway’s contribution. This work is still ongoing, in cooperation with Iceland and Liechtenstein. It's something that's a little boring about such agreements. You can't just freeze them like that. I believe that it is particularly important that we deal with the rules, and the starting point of the government will be the legal framework of the arrangements. However, the EEA funds are linked to the EEA Agreement, the main part of the EEA Agreement does not say anything about the suspension of transfers to beneficiary countries or other instruments linked to the financial instruments. Protocol 38c to the EEA Agreement must be taken into account, together with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to EEA funds derived therefrom. It sounds awfully boring, but since we are concerned about following the rule of law, we must also base these criteria on how we carry out the EEA Agreement and the funds given in that context. This framework also includes under given conditions the possibility of suspending transfers to programmes or projects. As a starting point, the active substance is limited to the specific programmes and activities that we ourselves finance. It does not necessarily cover all political developments or decisions in a recipient country that are undesirable from our perspective. That's why I just want to say that I'm very warning against going outside these frames. It would not be in Norway’s interest to be criticised for not complying with intergovernmental agreements or respecting rule of law. It is highlighted by the proposers that EEA funds strengthen the power base and influence of the Polish government. I'm not sure if Oslo University Hospital or Tomra is familiar with this description. Together with the University of Wrocklav, Oslo University Hospital has been given EEA funding to research new cancer treatments, while Tomra is a partner in a project for the return and increased recovery of waste from Polish households. I could mention several projects, for example: support for the preservation of the cultural heritage of minorities and the central area of action with our support for the Jewish History Museum, which has been going on for several years. Centres for the Study of Holocaust and Life Synonyms, the Wergeland Centre, the Falstad Centre and the Jewish Museums in Oslo and Trondheim have participated in this project collaboration – so the list is long. We have over 400 cooperation projects going on. The point is that the EEA funds are multi-annual and will contribute to long-term development. There is therefore no support for the current Polish government. I notice that the proposers do not want to hit the support of civil society. It's positive, because civil society plays a very positive key role, and we'll call about democracy and the rule of law. However, I would like to state that there are two funds for civil society in Poland of a total of 600 million. kr, both of these funds are managed by independent fund operators. The proposal covers only one fund of 330 million. kr. I can assure the House that the government is taking the development of the rule of law in Poland most seriously. Where there are agreements and breaches of the rules, this has consequences for the implementation of the EEA funds. It has already been noted by the Polish authorities when municipalities that declare support for so-called LHBTI ideology were cut off from support in 2020. But this decision was justified by the legislation, and that is just the whole point. It's a sensible and proper approach, which the government will continue. And then it is absolutely essential to ensure that EEA funds have a positive role in the development of Poland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e941	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e959	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e966	The government of Solberg presented a solid and good proposal for a gambling law last June with Prop. 220 L for 2020-2021. The proposition is based on Storting's many debates and decisions relating to gambling in recent years. The legislative proposal has been widely discussed in the Committee, with both hearing and recording from many parts of society. As rapporteur, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the parties in the Committee and the Committee Secretary for their good cooperation. As referred to in the bill, the single-law model is passed on, and also in the context of the review of the report. St. 12 for 2016–2017 concluded an assessment that the one-rights model should be passed on and strengthened. The aim of the bill is otherwise to collect and replace current laws and prevent problematic gambling behaviour, to prevent economic miscarriage, to limit private foresight and to ensure that most of the revenues from gambling go to good ends. The gambling industry has become one of Europe's largest industries. For a number of years, foreign non-regulated companies have filed a complaint for illegal activity in Norway and thus showed total lack of respect for Norwegian law. At the same time, they have made themselves legal competitors for Norwegian Typing. Of course, it is a large proportion of money, but it is also likely that one believed that the previous government would open up to licensing. The overarching objective of the Norwegian gambling policy is to ensure that gambling is offered in safe and responsible forms, because we know that too many individuals and families are the victims of gambling problems. For each and every, gambling problems and dependence mean disproportionate time use, economic problems and perhaps debt settlement, problems with study and work, mental distress, and it affects family, friends and jobs. The last major report on gambling from the University of Bergen, from April 2020, shows that at least 55 000 people are problem players and that 122 000 have moderate risks. One of the main findings is that more people who use gambling indicate that increasing advertising exposure means something to increase gambling problems. Negative consequences of gambling must therefore be the most important consideration behind Norwegian gambling policy. The working party is fully connected to the one-rights model. We do that because the model has lighted our society well. We need to continue our knowledge, including to reduce the number of problem players. Money games can most likely never be without problems, but as a society we have to do what we can to reduce the problems. Through our joint venture, the state can regulate a part without going through law or regulation. The Storting majority have stuck to the one-rights model, despite an organized and economically well-placed international gaming industry that has done what they want to do in various ways. There is reason to praise Organisation-Noreg, who asked the parties to put away the idea of distributing gaming licences to foreign companies. Organisations and the majority have been concerned with ensuring social responsibility while at the same time being concerned that the surplus from gambling is contributing in a fair way to the financing of sport and culture and social and humanitarian organisations. The social mission of Norsk Tipping is about to seem attractive to those of us who play, while at the same time managing a clear social responsibility. Last year, it was distributed over 6.1 billion. kr to large and small activities throughout the country, which has secured more musical instruments, better corrugation, stronger volunteering, and many good aims have been achieved. Across the country there are traces of Norwegian Typing, in both the village and the city. For the Labour Party, it is obvious that the idea of social responsibility and Norwegian voluntarity must trump the international commercial gambling industry. I want to say that the Solberg government has put forward a good proposal for a new gambling law. At the same time, it's amazing that several of the parties that themselves were part of the Solberg government, are already well-rejecting important parts of the bill. It applies to proposals which, in addition to being well-founded, also rely on long-term practical experience, legal assessments and knowledge based on the EEA Agreement. For the Labour Party, the one-rights model with the necessary measures to prevent gambling problems is supported. Finally, I would like to point out that those who have a single right to offer something in a society must also comply with requirements and rules. In addition, the very one-law model is dependent on European competition-regulating approval. In addition to Norwegian Typing, we also have a single right to offer gambling on horses, where we also come up with a number of suggestions to ensure that one should have a safe nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e994	Let me start by thanking the rapporteur for working well on a matter that has created a lot of debate and commitment. Of course, the right supports the establishment of a new common law on gambling. We support the establishment of a ranking between the objectives of the law's objective, stressing that prevention of gambling problems and other negative consequences of gambling are the main aims of the law. We also support most of the proposals contained in the proposal. I see, however, that the red-green parties are very surprised that we are not slavishly behind everything proposed in the law. It's a wonder that can be translated into learning, and for us it's about listening also to those who have their shoes on out there. On behalf of the Right, I shall be clear that the exclusive right model underpins the policy of gambling in this election period. But when that's said, I also want to be clear that the department or government doesn't own the power of definition over what that means. The world evolves every single day, and thus there is also both the need and space to make adjustments for parts of the gambling within the model, without weakening it. Both the legitimacy on the one hand and the degree of channelling on the other are factors from which we have to rule. Norwegian Typing has worked well since 1947 in many ways. At the same time, we must not forget that the company creates addiction and gambling problems for many, in fact an increasing number in recent years, despite restrictions on foreign companies. Norwegian Typing gets to market itself directly and indirectly for very large sums of money, and they get a large and exclusive exposure in the best amount of time sent by NRK. Then it seems to me as a paradox that digitisation of the lotteries to e.g. The blindfold is produced as a threat to the exclusive right model or that the § 7 lotteries cannot merge their licenses within the total turnover, without being a major threat. The Ministry is concerned with ensuring the channelling of gambling, but at the same time says that Rikstototo will not have the opportunity to develop digital and virtual games on horses. This is something the company just wants to catch up with players who are currently betting on foreign gaming companies, because the logic is not connected. But I am glad that SV ensures us the majority for a good proposal that opens up this opportunity today. Even more curiously, Norwegian Rikstototo, which was established in 1982, suddenly was produced as the dangerous actor. After 40 years, the State must either have command of the company or secure itself the majority of the board of directors. The ministry says that an expropriation, as it is in practice, is the only way to guarantee a continued license for exclusive rights to offer gambling on horses. I must also take the opportunity to remind you that both the Workers' Party and the Centre's delegates were very clear at the general meeting of the Norwegian Travgesellschaft last year. The state was not to join the government of Rikstototo by a majority if their party were to decide. Now it's their parties that decide. I also have to go to the Lottery Authority. They have an important role to play in the exercise of gambling policy, and they shall be ensured to be able to exercise their supervision effectively and satisfactorily. However, the law proposes major changes in roles and instruments to which a number of stakeholders were critical during the consultation. Among other things, the Ministry of Justice pointed out that relations with the Constitution and human rights, in particular the right to privacy and respect for property rights, should be further assessed. For this reason, we are voting against Section 26 today and ask the government to come back with a new assessment of the content of this paragraph. It's a council Right invites more people to join in and listen to. Since the government parties were surprised that we could disagree with parts of the law, I will finally make it clear that the Right also disagrees with this time, and therefore votes against, the proposal for DNS blocking. I'll bring this up with the suggestions that the right hand side is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1022	The representative Tage Pettersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1027	It is good that we now get a law that brings together today's law in the field of gambling into a new law, and that at the same time has new provisions, which preserves the development we have seen in the field. For the Central Party, it is important that there are national guidelines for all gambling providers in Norway, and that we have an exclusive right model, where Norsk Tipping and Norsk Rikstototo have exclusive rights to gambling. In addition, the Central Party wants measures to counter gambling dependence and ensure that the profits from gambling are allocated to sport, culture and volunteering and contribute to construction and activity throughout the country. The centre party therefore supports the legislative proposal, with some comments, but I must say that I am surprised that certain parties do not support the legislative proposal, as it is the previous government that has designed it. If I are to interpret the representative Pettersen correctly, the government of Solberg has not listened to those who wear the shoes. The exclusive model is strong in Stortinget. It's a model we've seen work well, and that's a broad consensus to continue. In order to comply with the requirements required by EEA law, there must be strict State control of exclusive rights providers. The exclusive right model is the most important tool we have to follow the interests behind gambling policy, and it is essential that we take the necessary steps to ensure the continuation of the model. In dealing with the law on gambling, it is important to remember why Norway has chosen to regulate gambling as strongly as we do, the reasons behind the Norwegian gambling policy and the justification for the exclusive right model. One of the main reasons is to prevent gambling dependence and other negative consequences of gambling. Large sections of the population have played various forms of gambling. But new types of games, on several different platforms and channels, increase accessibility and play. Most of us have a controlled use of gambling, but there are too many who have a problematic relationship with it, and the numbers are getting higher and higher. In my previous job, I have met more people with gambling addiction, people who have played away everything that is important in life: family, friends, home and work. The dependence of gambling controls the entire everyday life. There are people who are left with major debt challenges, where it is difficult to figure out the way out of the problems. Gambling addiction is a major social problem, and it affects many. It is therefore important that we do what we can to prevent this, to combat gambling addiction and to help those who have game challenges. I am therefore pleased that that consideration is so strong in gambling policy, with a strong regulation of gambling and that part of the profit is to be used for action against gambling addiction. It is important to ensure and protect the model of exclusive rights. This bill takes action to strengthen and protect the model. Strict State regulation and control are required and clear requirements are set for those who are to offer games. This helps to influence both Norwegian Typing and Norwegian Rikstototo. Norwegian Rikstototo has the exclusive right to offer gambling on a horse through the bill. Direct award may take place without competition as long as the State has sufficient means of control over the actors. This respects the bill by giving the state the right to appoint the majority of the board of directors of the person authorised to offer gambling on a horse. This requirement has caused concerns in Norsk Rikstototo. It is important to point out that this change has come to ensure that Norsk Rikstototo will continue to have the exclusive right to offer gambling on a horse in the future, and that the purpose is not to limit Norsk Rikstototo or adversely affect horse sports. In this context, I would like to stress the majority comment of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV that it is important to ensure that the board has a good knowledge of the horse sport and the horse industry, and that at least two of the board members appointed by the State should have the competence and experience of the professional and galloping sport. The centre party expects this to be followed up by the department. At the same time, it is expected that the Hurdal platform will be followed up by the government and that they will subsequently make an assessment of the loss limit of Norsk Rikstototo and their gaming portfolio. In assessing the gaming portfolio, the possibility of offering digital games shall be assessed and the Central Party considers the possibility to be good. However, it is important to make a thorough assessment first to ensure that the possibility of offering digital games does not violate the principles of the exclusive right model. The centre party is committed to developing Norwegian horse nutrition and horse sports, and it is essential that further work be done on the framework conditions for sport and industry. It is therefore reassuring that the government has decided to carry out such a review, and we hope they will return quickly to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1052	There has been a broad political consensus for many years on the carriers of Norwegian gambling policy. It has been agreed that there should be a fight against the negative consequences of gambling, including gambling addiction, which many have pointed out here from the pulpit today. It has been agreed that we should allow the surplus to benefit from ideal and social purposes, as we also see out in our community, and we have agreed to allow games as a leisure activity for those who do not have major problems. But at the same time, there's been a disagreement about how best to achieve these goals, so I'm a little surprised that so many people on the platform here today are shocked that some parties want to challenge the system we have today. In fact, for many years a majority has stood firm on the old monopoly model and that it is the best solution, despite the fact that developments have gone a long way since the tipper monopoly was established. It may also seem that the majority have fully stagnated in the belief that the world is as it was in the 1940s. Fortunately, most people have been given a much wider and better range of games, and the incomes of the ideals have been good for many years. However, there is now a tendency for more people to develop gambling addiction, under a strictly regulated gambling monopoly, and for revenue to decrease. Evolution may be due to more relationships. No one can claim that today’s situation — but perhaps half of everything from non-regulated actors — is good. I would also like to point out that Norwegian Typing has also been shown to have some major weaknesses. And when it comes to marketing, I would like to point out that Norwegian Typing is a very aggressive actor, also there. Recently we saw that Norsk Tipping would not contribute to Nordic academic research. Among other things, we lost a very important project in Bergen. I don't know what they're afraid of, but I'm afraid it's that a licensing system can prove to be better than just a monopoly. For the Progress Party, it is clear that a licensing model would have been much better than today’s, and that Norway should be licensing more players. By imposing licences on operators, there will also be some demands to achieve lower gambling dependence, and we would actually get higher revenues. I find it very strange that Norway – as about the only country again across Europe – should focus on this monopoly activity. Experience from an increasing number of European countries, including our neighbouring countries, shows just a positive trend. The fact that Norway is then going to cling to a badly functioning monopoly does not make any sense to the Progress Party. I actually want to go so far as to say that today's system works very badly and is a mockery of all those who struggle with gambling addiction. Finally, I almost have to get into Rikstototo. I think the representative from the Right, Tage Pettersen, had some very good moments here, but I must say that I find it quite surprising and very shocking that a large number in this period now actually chooses to expropriate this. It is clear that the majority has not taken over all the requests we have received in the case, and an acquisition of Rikstototo I am actually very wondering whether it is lawful. We have also been informed that this would be a matter of law. The most special thing is maybe that it's the Center Party that is involved in such a state expropriation of the horse sport, and unfortunately I think it's a little embarrassing. Otherwise, the Progress Party has written a number of additional comments on the matter. We have also made more proposals and we are more co-sponsors. Initially, we are voting against the law as a whole today, with the exception of point B. Then I take up the proposals of the Progress Party alone, and the proposal we have with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1071	The representative Silje Hemdal then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1076	This is a matter that has been on the job for a long time, and it has been difficult to get involved in all the facts of the case. There has been a great deal of attention from different actors and organisations around different aspects of this law. I am pleased that we have finally reached the final in the treatment of new gambling. I think it's good that we now collect three laws for one, and that the whole law is put under one department. It will be much easier to deal with for all parties. There has been a great deal of agreement in the committee on the large, general grips and purpose of the law. It is important that we provide a gambling scene that regulates gambling for the main purpose of preventing problematic gambling behaviour and financial default, and that limits the possibility of private profit. The majority agree that the model of exclusive rights best respects these considerations. The majority also agree that there should be a ban on the provision of gambling in Norway without permission and that there should be a ban on the dissemination of payment transactions from gambling which do not have the necessary permissions. We also believe it is important to prevent the illicit marketing of gambling. Operators with exclusive rights relate to given marketing guidelines which ensure that the offer is within controlled and responsible limits. Norwegian Typing is the major exclusive provider of gambling in Norway, and while generating large revenues is not a primary purpose of the law, we are pleased and support the importance of Norwegian Typing in generating revenues allocated to the broad volunteering in Norway. This contributes to significant revenues for sport, cultural purposes and many important social organisations. We know that this is very important for, among other things, children and young people throughout the country. The second exclusive provider, Norsk Rikstototo, has a different and distinct purpose for its revenues. The whole profit goes back to Norwegian horse sports. The money goes, among other things, for childcare, education, breeding, research, horse welfare and therapy, and the preservation of endangered Norwegian horse breeds. Norwegian Rikstototo has been especially concerned with two things. One is the proposal that the State should be able to appoint a majority of the Norwegian Rikstototo board, and the other is the possibility to develop digital and virtual games based on historical horse races and horses. Both parties have been concerned by the government and the ministry because they believe it challenges the model of exclusive rights. They refer to the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which argues that the direct granting of exclusive rights without open competition, as is done in Norway, may be lawful for as long as the authorities have sufficient control over the actors. This representative has been uncertain on the legal basis that the State intervenes by a majority of the board of a private foundation but has not chosen to challenge this point precisely for reasons of ensuring the exclusive model. We are pleased that we agree with the government parties to ensure that the board members appointed have a good knowledge of the horse sport and the horse industry. When it comes to the desire to develop digital and virtual games, we can't see that this challenges the exclusive model. The government parties have said that they want to look at the Norwegian Rikstoto game portfolio, but we want to be more concrete and have therefore chosen to support a proposal on this. We believe that the state still has sufficient control through the majority of the board and the fact that the state has granted the exclusive right to offer gambling on a horse to this one actor. I am sure that with this decision Norsk Rikstototo will engage in dialogue with the Department on the device and delimitation of this kind of game. In addition to this, we believe it is good that the department has not included in the bill the possibility to instruct the exclusive rights providers, that the totalization fee will not be reintroduced, and that the government will look at the Norwegian Rikstototo loss limits. Another topic that has been discussed and where we have received more input, including: UNICEF, WWF, SOS Children's Cities and the Red Cross are the challenge of operating the lotteries of non-governmental organisations. Five authorisations for this type of game have been granted today, but only two are in use: the Pantelottery and the Postal Code Lottery. They want the government to look at how permits can be adapted to ensure earnings, inter alia. by being able to merge licences, raise the turnover ceilings of the lotteries and remove the expiry date of lotteries. SV does not support the proposals put forward for this purpose, but the government believes that further consideration should be given to how the voluntary organisations that have been granted permits can be guaranteed the possibility of operating and earning within the framework of the exclusive right model. We're very strict in Norway, and we're going to be, but as of today, we have one exclusive lawyer who has a huge selection of games, lotteries, sports betting, casino variants and poker. The Norwegian Typings app provides instant access to over 300 easily accessible digital games. It is easy to understand the desire and need of small actors for modernisation, which at least makes them a little more accessible to the public. I therefore want the government to look at whether these small lotteries can not print lots of paper, because it is old-fashioned and out of date to print paper weight in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1097	Red is for strict state regulation of gambling, and personally I find it heartwarming to see what gambling addiction can do with the life situation of individuals and families. Red has programmed that it is unfortunate that so large a part of the latitude in our country is financed by the grassroots fraction from Norsk Tipping, precisely because these funds have a backside that is not very pretty. The link between gambling and income for good purposes is ethically difficult, all the time regulating measures mean loss of income to important organisations. But at the same time, it is very important for Red that we develop a law that safeguards problem players rather than the competitiveness of companies. We are therefore pleased that the bill confirms that the main purpose of the law is to prevent gambling problems and other negative consequences of gambling, and that an exclusive right model is continued. The legislative proposal takes a step in the right direction, but at the same time we believe that the law does not go far enough on a few points. Red does not seem to exempt from the 18-year age limit for gambling, as it opens up to do in the legal text. On the contrary, we know that gambling addiction can develop from a very early age, as the Norwegian Association for Game Problems has highlighted in its consultation response. We as legislators must take that responsibility. We must set clear and unavoidable limits. Furthermore, Red wants to increase the share of the profits from gambling going to action against gambling addiction, from 0.5 pst. For 1 pst. These funds are very important contributions to the efforts of non-governmental organisations to prevent and inform about gambling addiction, and not least in maintaining the support apparatus around a group of people who need networks and resource people around them, in order to overcome their problems. Here, volunteering is very central. Both the Norwegian Association for Game Problems and Game Addiction Norway emphasises that action against gambling dependence is underfunded. This means Red has to change. And with that, I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1110	The representative Hege Bae Nyholt has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1116	The left is pleased that the 2016 gambling message has been followed up with the Solberg government's proposal for a new law on gambling. The development of the gambling market in recent years has highlighted the need for a comprehensive review of gambling policy. The left will thank the members of the Committee for the constructive cooperation we have had in the consideration of the legislative proposal, with the aim of shaping a responsible gambling policy for the future. For most of us gambling is a source of entertainment and a little innocent excitement in everyday life. For others, gambling can lead to addiction and financial problems. The main purpose of a gambling law must be to prevent gambling problems and other negative consequences of gambling. This is made clear in the purpose provision of the new law, which establishes a ranking between the objectives. Top thrones the need to prevent gambling problems. Secondly, it takes account of the responsible and safe conduct of gambling. Finally, the secondary objective of facilitating the widest possible use of revenue is for ideal and societal purposes. The new law provides the basis for a comprehensive, coherent and systematic gambling policy. This will ensure that the overall objectives of gambling policy are met in the best possible way. Until now, the law has been somewhat fragmented and unbridled. The new law replaces the three existing laws on gambling: the Lottery Act, the Gambling Act and the Toalisator Act. This ensures greater usability. In addition, the law has been modernised and new technological challenges are facing. The left supports the main grips of the bill. The left supports the proposal for the continuation of the monopoly of games and the exclusive right model. The exclusive right thus applies to gambling which requires special official control because it has high turnover and high premiums or other characteristics that give rise to a high risk of gambling problems. The exclusive model implies that Norwegian Typing and Norwegian Rikstototo are granted exclusive rights to offer some gambling. The model is intended to ensure good public control and management of the gambling market. The burden of exclusive law is subject to strict State control, as required by EEA law. The alternative would have been a licence model, such as: Denmark and Sweden have. A licence model would mean opening up the market to more gaming companies than today, against subjugating themselves to government requirements to protect people with gambling problems. A licence model would have provided greater tax revenue. Such a situation is today, the exclusive right model is preferable, because it gives a higher level of accountability than a licence model. It is important to bear in mind that economic considerations should be secondary to the prevention of gambling dependence. At the same time, developments in international competition are not likely to affect the long-term relevance of the waste monopoly. Non-regulated actors are already a challenge for Norwegian gambling policy. Technological developments have led to the distribution and dissemination of gambling on the Internet in new ways. Games are offered on new platforms with a completely different design than what we know from more traditional gambling. The situation may change further in the coming years. The gambling monopoly undoubtedly constitutes a restriction in the principle of free establishment of the EEA Agreement. Under EEA law, a restriction on freedom of establishment will be lawful if the restriction is justified by overriding reasons of public interest and is at the same time appropriate and necessary to achieve the objective pursued. The question that can be updated in the coming years is whether the Norwegian model of exclusive rights is suitable to pursue the objective it is to pursue, i.e., that it is suitable for the prevention of gambling addiction. If foreign gaming companies take a greater part of the players in the time to come, a licence model subject to a certain degree of liability measures could be more appropriate. The left therefore asks the government to follow closely the field of gambling and the influence of international actors and, by 2024 at the latest, to return to the Stortinge with an evaluation of the exclusive right model. The left notes that the government has removed the DNS alert proposal and instead chose to conduct a new DNS blocking consultation. In this context, the left indicates that the Ministry of the Hearing Notes considered it unlikely that DNS blocking could effectively prevent those wishing to make use of unregulated gambling offers. This is because measures can be circumvented by relatively simple methods. For example, there are VPN services that will automatically bypass such blocking. The Left also notes that all the hearing bodies with a technological background, which gave their opinion at the open hearing, were inconclusively negative to the proposal. They claimed that bypassing a DNA blockage is much easier than what the proposition refers to. For example, an app installed on a phone will not depend on a specific URL. Instead, the app will use the URL embedded in the code. Then DNS blocking will have no effect. In other words, DNS blocking is a low-precision method that is not suitable for combating gambling addiction. Against this background, the Left Government is asking for the end of work on the proposal to impose DNS alerts after DNS blocking.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1141	Gambling is too much excitement and a little fun in everyday life. Some scratch a Flax lot in new and no, or support the sports team's Christmas lottery or hope a Saturday in between for Lotto's big win to hit. Some bet a little bit of money on who scores goals, or which horse wins a race. Then, unfortunately, someone loses more than they can afford, and who gets into trouble with work, living together, and also friendship because of gambling. The new gambling law we are dealing with today states that there is just a need to prevent gambling problems and other negative consequences of gambling, which is the central and general objective of the law. In addition, it is good that the law is ready and facilitates revenue from gambling for good purposes. The proposal for gambling was presented by the previous government, and in the Hurdal platform, the Workers' Party-Center Party government says that we will preserve and defend the exclusive right model and take action to prevent gambling on foreign gambling companies in Norway. A new waste of money is an important instrument in this regard, and it is desirable to have a broad majority behind the law. The new government therefore supported the fact that the bill from the previous government was to be dealt with in the Stortinget. We see that an increasing number of foreign gaming companies and those who pass payments on their behalf choose to withdraw from the Norwegian market. That's good. It is becoming more difficult and more difficult to have an illegal offer launched here in the country. That means that our policy is working. Several instruments launched in recent years have a positive impact. Like several of the previous speakers with amazement, I have noted that parties who themselves presented this bill when they were in government are now turning their backs on several of their proposals. I had hoped that the responsibility from the government period would be a little longer, but unfortunately it does not seem to do so in the case of the Left and Right parties. In the Hurdal platform, the government clearly states that we should strengthen the fight against gambling addiction. In this bill, it is now legal to have at least 0.5 pst. Norwegian Typing's surplus should be set aside for action against gambling problems. This will give us a tremendous increase, from today's 17 million. kr following the plan against gambling addiction annually, to over 30 million. kr annually in the future. With this, we can get more measures that can help prevent, detect, respond to and deal with gambling problems. The main aim of gambling policy is to ensure that just vulnerable players are protected, and we do so, among other things. by providing two selected providers, Norsk Tipping and Norsk Rikstototo, with exclusive rights in each of their fields. There has also been some debate about the role of the exclusive rights provider. Being an exclusive right provider is accompanied by a need to accept that the State has strong and effective means of control in order to follow the objectives of the gambling policy. It was just supposed to be missing, and it is also a claim under EEA law. I look forward to the rest of the debate, and I look forward today to a new and up-to-date gambling market, which provides us with a good basis for implementing our responsible gambling policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1167	I just need to repeat once again that for the Right, we are firmly behind the exclusive model, just to point it out. Rikstototo is 40 years old this year, the EEA Agreement is 26 years old, and suddenly there is a need to do something about the law in order to ensure Rikstototo a licence to play exclusive games on horses in Norway. It is therefore proposed in the law to have government governance through the right to appoint a majority of the members of the board. Several lawyers have said that they consider this to be very problematic in terms of EEA law, and even SV's Kathy Lie has called for an action to clarify this matter. Then I want to ask the Council of State what the reason is. What's the change since this is all of a sudden a requirement we have to make for Norsk Rikstototo?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1176	The premise in the question from the representative, Pettersen, I would say is wrong. So it is not the law that the government does not want to instruct or impose anything on Norsk Rikstoto, but in this up-to-date gambling law we are demanding those who are to be exclusive providers of gambling. So now it's like today Norsk Rikstototo is the exclusive offerer of games on a horse, and if they want to be in the process, you have to assume that you have to follow the requirements that the state can have for those who offer games. We need strong and effective control of the exclusive rights providers, and it is therefore also right that this requirement is now incorporated into the law. So there is no direct control or change we make towards Norsk Rikstoto, but general rules for those who want to offer gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1181	That was not an answer to the question. Regardless of who has the license, the question was, what is the change that has occurred in the last 40 years, which makes it necessary to clarify or modify the law now? But let me ask another question and go over to the lottery for small charities. How can it be produced as a problem that small lotteries for organisations such as Blindbound, digitised in terms of sales and traction, which they have requested? We also debated it in the previous period, and then several of the red-green parties agreed that it was time to go in that direction. Or what's the challenge for the 7 lotteries by merging several of the licenses, as long as you relate to the same total roof? How does the Council of States view the two issues as problematic with regard to EEA law?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1188	The Norwegian exclusive gaming model is precisely based on the fact that only the state-controlled players, i.e. Norsk Tipping and Norsk Rikstototo, are to offer gambling. So then we have a tradition that the representative points to, with a private lottery market, which is an exception from this point of view. It is therefore a complement to the exclusive right model, and an important condition for these lotteries is that they should be offered on a very limited scale. There's a very hairy limit between challenging the exclusive model and having a – what to say – sensible portfolio of games. We have evaluated these wishes and realized that we cannot meet them, because we are just concerned about protecting the condition of the exclusive right model. We are saying that these lotteries should be offered on a limited scale in order to be in line with what we want to preserve, precisely the Norwegian game model.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1195	Yes, the department has promoted several strongly in-depth proposals for the governance of the Norsk Rikstoto Foundation. First of all, it is the right of the department to appoint the majority of the board of directors of the foundation. We have been contacted by several in this case, including legal experts, as pointed out by the Right, on the EEA law, but also on how the bill complies with the Constitution. Then I wonder: To what extent has the Ministry assessed the relationship with the Constitutional Act, and what legal expertise has been used in this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1202	It would be very special if the government promoted a bill to instruct or intervene in the internal affairs of Norsk Rikstototo as a foundation, but that is not what the Money Gambling Act is doing today. We're setting up some rules and conditions for those who want to be exclusive providers of games. Today it is Norwegian Rikstototo and Norwegian Typing. Of course, when you are allowed to be an exclusive provider of gambling, you also have to comply with the state's need to have the means and the ability to control it. That's why the rules that follow the gambling law we adopt today, and that's when Norsk Rikstototo has to choose to do if they still want to be the exclusive provider of gambling. But it's a general law and general rules, not rules that apply directly to Norsk Rikstototo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1207	I record that we do not get any assessment of this, but I await the notified case in order to get a proper legal assessment of this. I have a slightly different question: as the Minister is aware, neither I nor the Progress Party are pleased with this monopoly system, nor the exclusive model, and we have today made a proposal on just a licensing model. I then wonder, since the Minister also pointed out in his intervention the importance of these funds being used for social purposes – culture, sport and so on – whether she has an estimate of how much Norwegian volunteering and sport, for example. Today, losing much of this money is being sent out of the country today, rather than establishing a licensing model.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1214	I think that's where the Progress Party is wrong. There is nothing to suggest that the introduction of a licence model will help to increase the use of money by volunteers, sports and culture in their activities, on the contrary. Introducing a licensing model will lead to perhaps some of the gambling games that are illegal today being subject to a license, but most will not. And there are good reasons for that, because if you were to be subject to the same regime as Norsk Rikstototo and Norsk Tipping, you would in principle not be able to make money, and these companies are here to make money. So one would end up having an almost as large unregulated market of foreign illegal operators, even if some go on licensing, while Norsk Tipping and Norsk Rikstototo lose the terrain. So there's nothing to suggest that this will lead to anything good for culture, sport or volunteering, and definitely not for those who are the most important, and it's those who are in danger of becoming addicted to gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1220	The minister seems very hesitant in his case. Therefore, I wonder why it is then this resistance to the proposal of the Progress Party to have a review of Norwegian gambling policy and an evaluation of the current system and not least to look at our neighbouring country and why they are successful in a licensing system. My last question will then be to the Minister: why is there so much resistance to evaluating the scheme – if the minister is already so sure that this is a bad solution for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1227	We regularly debate and evaluate the Norwegian gambling monopoly, and I have also enjoyed – together with the representative Hemdal, since we have been in the same committee for many years now – at least a few times a year to have this round in Stortinget related to the future of the exclusive right model. We have also been able to report together on a report from various actors that is just going through the strengths and weaknesses of the exclusive right model. So there is no lack of reports or lack of knowledge. I respect that the Progress Party is ideologically in disagreement with the government that you want to preserve a monopoly of games. That's fine, but we don't have any reason to produce any more reports or have any official review. All the sides of the model are up to discussion all the time, and they should be. So at the end of the day, it is a political position whether you want to preserve and strengthen the model of exclusive rights in the future, first and foremost to consider those who are at risk of becoming addicted to gambling, but also to ensure that the surplus goes for charitable purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1234	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1241	We probably don't think people change behavior just because we make a decision in Stortinget. But we are clear that we believe that if the Stortinget makes a decision that we want to prevent advertising of illegal games, and otherwise help prevent commercial players, it will have an effect on people. We believe that when Stortinget proposes to give the Lottery Authority better tools to prevent transactions, it will affect what is happening around the games. We have been promoting a number of proposals over a long period of time that will help to improve the protection of gambling addicts and, of course, we welcome the fact that the government has followed up on the proposal we are now considering. The goal of Norwegian gambling policy must be to facilitate responsible games, so as to minimise problems. That is the main reason why we are dealing with the gambling law today. Too many people with problems have ended up losing a house, a job, and a family. I actually think that we all know someone who's had or had different problems with games. It is therefore important that we have responsible actors and that we have strict State control. Games should be excitement and joy, not something that gets people into trouble. The model of exclusive rights has been developed to limit gambling dependence and social challenges. I'm glad that we're fenced around this model, that the profits from Norwegian Typing go to volunteering, and that there are no foreign owners in tax havens who are left with large parts of the billions that until now have gone all the way back to volunteering in Norway. As you know, sport over the state budget does not receive a grant, but it is given in the form that parts of the profits of Norsk Tipping are transferred to sport. It allows children and young people to participate in sports, to experience sports pleasures and mastery, and to build sports facilities throughout the country — including in the smallest municipalities, such as the Utsira and the Witsøj skate park. Organisation-Norway has also enjoyed the profits of Norwegian Typing. Typing funds finance instruments for corps and bands, and they contribute to the operation of NPISHs such as the Red Cross, the Cancer Association and the Rescue Company. Across the country, there are traces of Norwegian Typing and their contribution to culture, sport and volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1256	The last decades have fallen monopoly after monopoly, and it is really sad that we have this debate today, where one chooses to maintain this monopoly – especially because it does not work. Why doesn't the game monopoly work? I think there are three reasons why: Firstly, there have been several problem players under this monopoly regime. Over the past six to seven years, we've had a double in the number of problem players. The second reason why the monopoly doesn't work is that we see in the big leak. Over 50 pst. by those who play online, play on actors other than the monopolistic actors. It shows that the monopoly doesn't catch up with the players. Thirdly, this monopoly makes social benefits less money than they could otherwise have. We have some reports from some years back that show that you could get up to 2 billion. kr more for social purposes. It's not so strange when we know that hundreds of thousands of Northmen add billions of dollars each year to foreign gaming companies, and it's quite obvious that you could get some of this money in for useful purposes if you had an arrangement that took these players into the good company. Our neighbours must either have a desire to create more problem players or have understood something we have not understood in Norway, when one by one they choose to move away from monopoly to licensing. In Norway, we still choose to stick our head in the sand and pretend that we don't have hundreds of thousands of Norwegians who spend billions of dollars each year on foreign gaming companies. I understand that the reality that several representatives from other parties here describe is something you would want to want, an ideal reality for many parties – namely, that you only had monopolistic actors who were the only actors in the North. But that's not the reality. Hundreds of thousands of Norwegians are playing with foreign gaming companies today. They're spending money abroad, and we don't get any of them in Norwegian tax dollars. That's the reality. Then you can either try to get those heads in for good use, or stick your head in the sand and pretend it doesn't happen. I understand that there are strong forces moving when challenging monopoly powers, and we have seen that research does not even escape. Even research with other Nordic actors is said not to be based on the fact that foreign gambling companies are involved. We also see that the new bill affects both the bingo industry, private lotteries – the Blind Alliance was mentioned – and others for which it now has negative consequences. I would like to remind you that it is legal for the Nordics to play with foreign gaming companies. In fact, the Norwegian state and all of us, through the oil fund, own shares in several of the companies to which this is referred as illegal gambling companies. I think that many of these proposals are drawing this in the wrong direction. It is also frightening to see how little government parties can trust the horse sport when you now take state control of Rikstototo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1273	For us in the Working Party, it's important to fence around the one-right model. In order to protect him, it is also part of the debate that one has to note the fact that has been well discussed today, that it is illegal foreign companies operating in the Norwegian market. We see that it is widespread, and therefore what is mentioned is also proposed measures, including: with DNA blocking. There's a work going on, and it's a shame that several parties are turning around before one has gained knowledge of that work. I want to raise skeptics and opponents of the one-right model to take a closer look at the following: In 2015, depositors received a letter from 16 of Norway's largest organizations, asking Stortinget to continue the one-right model as the best solution to limit the scope of gambling problems. Here, for example, the Norwegian Sports Association, the Red Cross, the Rescue Company, the Salvation Army and the Cancer Association participated. The letter was an answer to the pending right-hand government's work on fixing a licensing model. The feather toft selection, the government’s strategy selection for sport, delivered its setting in the summer of 2016, and it provides a clear recommendation that the one-rights model must remain, and that the licensing regime is not recommended. There was probably a lot of excitement in which the game model Right National Assembly last year was going to land. Fortunately, on the one hand-rights model, former Prime Minister Solberg encouraged the national meeting to vote in order not to create more uncertainty about funding volunteering, sport and culture on the way out of the pandemic. She said, let's not have that debate on every single cup that's arranged beyond the fall. There I must agree with the former Prime Minister, Solberg. She is right that the sport would certainly discuss this, and that it could be unpleasant. One thing is that it had become uncomfortable around the cups, but also for future cups. I find that both Solberg and – here – the representative Pettersen have confirmed that one stands by the one-rights model, and that he means a great deal for the universality of the whole country. But then it's important that one is for all the measures that also apply. Many organizations have, as I said, taken the order to preserve the one-right model, and Marit Bjørgen, Astrid Uhrenhold Jacobsen and Birgit Skarstein warned in the VG after the court meeting and said the following: ‘Norwegian gambling policy shall ensure that the revenue from gambling benefits the entire community. It shall support sport and volunteering, but it shall also prevent people from becoming addicted to gambling and helping those who are struggling. Increased tax revenue or profit may not shade for this important objective.» The title was: "Norway needs latitude and volunteering. No more gambling.’ And it's hard to disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1297	This case has a couple of very central elements: Of course, it's promised purposes, which many people have had, and it's absolutely fundamental, to call about the one-right model. To do that, it actually requires a law that is quite precise. Then I understand that it creates reactions, among other things. from Norsk Rikstototo, and that it is inconceivable whether this is actually necessary to protect the one-rights model. But regardless of the usemja, the one-right model is absolutely central to protecting Norsk Rikstoto. We also have to bear that in mind. Some of it all, most importantly, and perhaps most importantly when it comes to horse racing and horse racing in general, are the future framework conditions for horse sport. There's 16 000 added to the horse sports, and Rikstototo just translated well for 3.4 billion. kr – at such a size. Then there is no doubt – and it is also stated in the Hurdal platform that we should look at the framework conditions for the horse sport – that it is quite central that the horse sport has a viable framework in the future. Because without viable framework conditions, I don't believe there's a lot of horse to play with either. It is a point that has been little in the debate, it is that this legislative proposal simplifies it too. When it comes to small lotteries for small layers and associations, you will be required to register for less than NOK 200000.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1308	I need to say that I am a little surprised at as much time as the Workers' Party's representatives spend on the foreign gaming companies and the exclusive rights model. There's only one party in this room that disagrees with the rest of us on that question, so there's a sub-topic theme in this gambling law. That is why I was also a little surprised when the Council of State said that parties in the previous government seem to be running from the line of responsibility. The right is behind five proposals promoted by this law. Otherwise, we are involved in what is in the law, and not least in the purpose of the law, which I took up in my first post. Our first proposal concerns the composition of the board in Rikstototo, which has worked for 40 years. I don't think that threatens the Norwegian monopoly model, and it's also the lawyers that disagree about it out there. Our second proposal is to digitise the lotteries for smaller, charitable organisations, which SV has also raised in this debate, even though they are not included in the proposal. I can't see that it threatens the exclusive model in any way or is irresponsible. The third proposal is to say no to DNS blocking. Right hasn't turned there. The right has said no to DNA blocking as long as it's been debated in this room, in the previous magnification period, so we're at the same position as we've been behind over the last four years. Our fourth proposal concerns one of the paragraphs, Section 26, where we say that ‘we ask the government to come back to Stortinget’, because among other things. The Ministry of Justice, with many others, has concerns about some of the elements that lie there now. We're not saying that we disagree, but we're saying that it's too poorly solved in relation to some of the concerns that have been raised. The last proposal we're promoting is on the § 7 lottery, where we ask to look at the possibility of merging one or more of the five licenses within the 1.2 billion ceiling. NOK – we are not going to trade for more kroner – and within EEA law. None of the five proposals are running from accountability, and we're behind the main lines of the Money Gambling Act. There's a need to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1323	In my previous post I spoke a little more generally about the monopoly and the system and the change the Progress Party wants there, so now I thought I would touch some of the individual proposals a little bit more. The first thing I want to talk about is DNA blocking, which has been adopted in the past, and which the government says you should come back to. This is a form of censorship that the Progress Party will strongly warn against. It's censoring the Nordics' websites and access to websites because of something it's legitimate for the Nordics to do on the Internet. It's a pretty strong censorship of the Internet, which we probably don't have in any other area, and that's also a restriction of freedom of expression. So we would want the majority to decide that DNA blocking of foreign gaming pages is being removed. The second is a topic that has also been discussed by several others today, namely that private lotteries and many good voluntary organisations are not allowed to offer more digital solutions in line with both the present and the future, and in line with our behaviour in all areas, namely that we are doing more and more digitally, whether it be gambling or other. What is actually being done is to refuse more associations and non-governmental organisations to have these games and thus generate income in the future through these channels. I would like to remind you once again that playing is legal for the Nordics, whether it is with the monopolies or with other actors, but it has been decided to pursue a policy that makes it harder and more difficult for the North to play, including with legal actors, such as these private lotteries. I wish you had a more open attitude. I would also like to see an evaluation of today's monopoly system, simply because by continuing the line we have today, we make ourselves – and also the social players who receive profits from Norsk Tipping and Rikstototo – a bear service, by not letting them take part in the billions of dollars that disappear out of the country because the Nordics are currently playing on foreign gaming companies. So it would have been an advantage for everyone if you could make an evaluation of today's system. Then we could do the same thing as many of our neighbouring countries have done: modernize our system for the best of those who receive profits from gambling, and for those who are struggling with gambling problems, because a licensing model could have given a more comprehensive, coordinated response to gambling problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1334	I am pleased that we are holding on to what the Progress Party calls the monopoly, the model of exclusive rights. Although some Nordics still play illegal games, the solution to this challenge is not to throw the model of exclusive rights on the boat, as the Progress Party suggests. Since it was mentioned here that SV encourages Norsk Rikstototo to sue the State, I just want to say that it is not that we go around and encourage people to sue the State. It's probably a little bit of a free interpretation of the nations. We've just said that it could be interesting with a legal assessment. There's a little bit of a nuance difference on that. The last thing I want to mention in this case is the question of DNS blocking. In 2018, a request decision was taken in Stortinget to ask the government to stop illegal gambling by introducing DNS blocking of their websites. SV supported this proposal. DNS blocking is not part of today's decision, but it has nevertheless created debate. In the case, it says that the government will investigate how a DNA blockage can be designed, and conduct a new consultation on this, and we are pleased with that. However, the debate has raised some impact and impact challenges. We have also received concerns about censoring the Internet and preserving privacy by redirecting people to the Lottery Authority's pages, and that this can be logged. Some have also shown that DNA blocking is quite easy to bypass for those who really want to. However, we haven't been negative about DNS blocking, because it also shows that this can be a threshold that prevents particularly new players from accessing illegal gambling websites. We support this investigation, and we encourage the government to include these challenges in the investigation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1346	It's basically a big paradox that the state is holding on to a monopoly on gambling to just avoid the negative effects of gambling. But we just have to admit that gambling and the Internet have come to stay, and we have to regulate it the best possible way. That's why the Norwegian model of exclusive rights is so unique and so well-functioning: precisely because, over these many decades, we have been able to develop it further and modernise it as technological developments and people's gambling habits take place. Then it is that the Right and Left do not escape that they run from the suggestions they themselves made when the game law was presented to the Stortinget. It makes very little sense to me that representatives from the Right cannot see that the proposals they are now running away from threaten the exclusive right model. It is with respect to report a very difficult balance to maintain the monopoly of gambling, as the many legal cases against the monopoly of gambling have also been and continue to show. But we have managed to defend the game monopoly, precisely because we are able to have this predictable and strong state dynamic governance of the way both Norsk Typing and Norsk Rikstototo get to advertise, channel on, etc. Today, when we present a new and up-to-date gambling scene, it's about being able to do this for the future as well. This is why we are presenting the need for new instruments, such as: the fact that, in line with other supervision, the Lottery Authority has access to information, and that we need to put some leads on, for example. the composition of the board in order to control those who wish to be exclusive game providers. Then it is that DNA blocking has come up in the debate. It's not part of this law, but I just want to let you know that we in the government are fully aware of all the advantages, disadvantages and counter-representations that have come against DNA blocking. We're going to come back to the instrument DNA blocking on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1357	I thank you for a good debate. I feel the need to clear up some things completely. It's been a good discussion about the standing of the one-right model, and fortunately, it's a plural to preserve the one-right model. But we also know what the consequences are of not strengthening the one-right model and possibly having a licensing system – there are many of them. If something is uncertain, at least we know from other countries that what will increase, as we see it in other countries, is commercial advertising. In an overview from a manager in Norsk Typing, Nikolaisen, published in 2019, we will see how the marketing and advertising of gambling has exploded, and there are many examples of tightening up. In Sweden, it was used over 7.4 billion. kr. Denmark received a sharp increase in advertising pressure, and Danish members of the EU Parliament would make proposals to ban money gambling advertising in Europe. Italy imposed a ban on sports betting advertising from 2019 onwards, and Spain wanted to equate betting advertising with tobacco advertising. I have not yet met anyone who wants to increase the advertising of games on TV in Norway, and I am probably not going to do that either. Finally, I would like to comment on the fact that we should continue and also strengthen the one-rights model. We have a good deal of measures to strengthen him and make sure that he is not threatened either. We'll talk a little bit about Norsk Rikstototo and their gaming portfolio. The representative of the Centre Party made it clear that, in the form of a comment, the Labour Party and the Centre Party have found a solution that one should look at the gaming portfolio, but also look it up against the one-rights model. In that context, I think it is a pity that the Socialist Left Party joins with the parties on the right in the proposal that opens directly to it. In the SV's own batch program, they are to preserve the one-right model and to reduce game dependency. We know that more games increase competition, which in turn can threaten the one-right model and not least increase the room for gambling addiction, which I hope everyone in this room will really work to prevent. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1366	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1383	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1390	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives who have made a proposal that has created an enormous amount of commitment out there. It's obvious that digital games are in the wind. The Committee has also worked well in this matter, so I will first comment a little on the committee work and then move on to the Progress Party. In 2019, the government launched Solberg Norway's first computer strategy. It was an important beginning, and having computer games as a separate post on the state budget was no obvious thing. The representative proposal explains that computer games as an activity include an increasing proportion of children and young people and include many that are not necessarily captured by or want to engage in traditional organised leisure activities. The proposal also describes the development of an increasingly large and organised e-sports sector, and further indicates that computer games seem to have little overall treatment in, among others. the schoolwork. The Committee has considered several of the concrete proposals, and during the hearing on 20 September, there was a great deal of good input from different actors and organisations. The Ministry of Culture has also announced that during 2022 they want to create a new strategy for computer gambling policy – which has already begun, as I understand it. That's good. As rapporteur, I am very pleased that the Committee was able to agree on at least one of the proposals. I had a great hope of more, because many people really agree here, it could seem like. But I think it is good that the whole committee can support at least one proposal. However, it is the case that the Progress Party has previously promoted a proposal for a national e-sports strategy. We have also put forward proposals on this subject, but unfortunately we do not get a majority in favour of it. I find that sad when, among other things, Vestland County is the county council that comes with the recording, where the Workers' Party is and controls, which in its time supported the proposal of the Progress Party there. So this I think is a little bit sad. Otherwise, I would like to address the other proposals of which the Progress Party is a part, and I would also like to inform you that we are co-sponsors and support the solution proposed by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1405	The representative Silje Hemdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1410	Computer games are today something quite different than when the first consoles came in the 1970s. This is where many children and young people spend a lot of their everyday life, and computer games are also a venue where they learn and meet friends. Gaming, as it is called, is the most important leisure activity for very many children and young people. The intention of this representative proposal is positive, and I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus that one wants to build up all the positives of the digital game culture. However, I have to say that I am a little over the games that have been running for eight years, that they are waiting until they are in a minority before they get involved in this. The representative proposal also kicks open doors, because some of the measures proposed are already under way, and other measures are already notified by the government. For the Workers' Party, it's nothing new to recognise the computer game culture. Allereie in 2008 presented what may have been the world's first video game broadcaster, the impending Minister of Culture of the Labour Party. For the first time, computer games were raised as culture and recognized as nourishment, and since then it has been part of our policy. When the computer game strategy was presented in 2019, it was therefore nice to see it incorporate many of the suggestions that our national meeting has also put forward. Computer games are also culture. It is also increasingly used in learning. In addition, e-sports is a growing sport, for which the government of the Hurdal platform says that a desire to facilitate is in line with the values of the Norwegian sports model. At the same time, it's important that we work with the negative sides of computer games, because we know that in some games there are elements that are similar to lottery and gambling. We take this seriously and are happy that the government is so clear that one wants to introduce a rules for lottery mechanisms also in computer games. In this context, I would like to refer to the treatment of the new gambling law, which we have just debated. Here, a joint committee points to the challenges associated with regulation of lock boxes, and suggests that governments continue to work with good regulation. Children and young people must feel safe and included in the meeting with computer games and computer game culture. Increasing the skills of computer games and computer game culture means that we're important, and we're already focusing on that. When it comes to school, we know that games are increasingly being used in education. We also know that a number of advanced schools offer e-sports line. E-sports are currently not defined in the national supply structure, but are part of the Top priority. With the flexibility that is currently in the supply structure, the state is free to make offerings, as we see many already do. This is the responsibility of the county, and of course we do not want to regulate in detail what municipalities will have to offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1427	The Solberg government launched in 2019 Norway’s first computer game strategy, Playroom – Computers Strategy 2020–2022, to raise computer games such as autonomous cultural expressions, art form, nutrition and leisure activities. We who are the proposers in this matter show that it is important that the measures of the strategy are followed up and further developed by the new government. Computer games have developed into one of the most important leisure interests among children and young people in recent years. It is therefore necessary that computer games and e-sports receive the status they deserve, in line with more traditional leisure interests and sports. These include: on the need for more arenas to operate computer games and e-sports in municipalities. In addition, we believe that e-sports and computer games should enter school as a valuable educational tool in education. The right has programmed a clear commitment to computer games and e-sports, followed by this representative proposal. There does not seem to be any disagreement in the Committee on the importance of computer games and e-sports, but on our side we believe that the government is too passive and too leans too heavily on today's grant schemes from, among other things. NFI, Norwegian Film Institute, and Frifond. With regard to the use of computer games in school, they indicate that the county municipality is responsible for secondary education and that it is up to the counties themselves to assess whether more computer game-based education is to be introduced. But we do not exclude that the framework for school content is largely decided nationally. One of the highest thresholds for many young people is access to premises and equipment. That's why last year the Solberg government presented the computer game and data culture supervisor's meeting places. However, I am somewhat disappointed with the answer given by the Minister of Culture to this very proposal. She shows a great deal about the role of the libraries. It's important, but I don't think it's enough. Consider cities such as: Sarpsborg, who has established a fantastic offer at Youth's Kulturhus, or Spillhuset in Bærum, as two good examples. There is room to be more offensive than the government party put up in this case. In conclusion, I would like to express my satisfaction that we have, after all, found ourselves together in the committee and are behind the proposal to follow up the supervisor and consider how to further contribute to making it easier for the municipalities and others out there who want to establish inclusive meeting places for this group. I'm bringing this up with the suggestions that the Right is part of, including proposal No. 6, which by an incursion had fallen out of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1444	The representative Tage Pettersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1449	As the representative proposal underlines, a large proportion of the population have a relation to computer games, and computer games are an important sport and leisure interest for many. So it's important that we take action to raise the digital game culture. I think it is very good that the proposal for a representative has lifted its commitment, and that we have had a good discussion in the committee in the light of games – although most of the proposals that have been made have already been taken care of. Over the last few years, Stortinget has been addressing strategies and big business messages that deal with the topic, which it is working on, and which will also be followed up on. There are many children and young people who have computer games as leisure interests, and the development of meeting places and social arenas for those who play computer games will be crucial. The follow-up of the computer games and data culture advisors will therefore be an important work to be done in the future. The Trettebergstuen State Council, through its response to the proposal for a representative, has responded well to the work of her department in the field, and made clear comments on the various proposals, with good input from the other departments. As the Council of State points out in its reply, the government is already following up several of the proposals and others are already covered under existing arrangements. A new strategy for computer gambling policy is already under way, which will be ready in the course of the year. I hope that the Council of State will take with it the commitment and the recordings that have been made in this proposal for a representative. It is clear that the Thematics takes up the Minister, and it is good to see that both the Minister and the Government follow up the Thematics well and are already working on several of the proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1460	I am very pleased with this proposal that has been put forward by the Right, and I will also refer to Mr Hemdals and my proposal on behalf of the Progress Party last year, on a national e-sports strategy. Unfortunately, this was not intended to be treated until the last session ended. E-sports have had an explosive growth both globally and nationally in recent years. E-sports are considered the fourth largest sport in the world, and in Norway over 96 pst. by boys and 63 pst. by girls between the age of 9 and 18 that they play computer games on a regular basis. We've seen a large spread of clubs, the organized environment is growing rapidly, and the number of viewers is also increasing sharply. This is also a major industry, and we see teams investing large millions of dollars to make Norway a host for teams in international e-sports contexts. It is also impressive to see the e-sports environments emerging in different places in the country. Several have already been mentioned here, and I can mention the environments in Lier and Florø as other examples. We also have an e-sports association, which today is located at Lillehammer, which also has a formalized cooperation with the Cyber Defense. E-sports may have had a maybe a bit of a blush reputation that some kids run into in the boys' or girls' room, but it's gotten a lot, a lot bigger. The reason why we want a national e-sports strategy is that we believe Norway has the potential to be a world leader in both the recruitment of talents and the hosting of major international events, for international federations, and for workplaces and teams that generate large dollars for both e-sports and the community. We think Norway has all the prerequisites for world leadership in e-sports and digital games, but then we also have to dry out having an offensive strategy. This has been put in place outside the public sector, but it is good that the school system and others also follow and offer education and specialisation opportunities. But we also need a strategy on the other sides, not least the commercial ones, so that we can make Norway the world's capital for both e-sports and digital games in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1471	Computer games have evolved in recent decades, and almost all children and young people play games in some form. As a result, communications, strategies and representational proposals on computer games in Stortinget have been discussed several times. Computer games have even received their own entry on the state budget. Computer games have proved to be an activity that also includes young people who are not using traditional organised leisure activities. For many, this is an important activity and an activity in which they feel included and non-discriminatory. A growing number of sports teams and recreational clubs have computer games as their offerings, and matches and competitions are increasingly being organised. In the report Meeting Place Datakultur, young people say that there are the same needs for meeting places for those involved in computer games as for those engaged in other activities. They want these meeting places to be co-located with other offers. In my home municipality, Lier, there is an e-sport offer for children and young people with disabilities. This has proved to be a particularly important offer for children and young people who are not so easily included in other leisure activities. For SV, it has been important to point out that computer equipment is expensive and that it is important to provide facilities for low or no participant fee arenas and that do not require individual owners of their own equipment, so that all children and young people have the opportunity to participate, regardless of the family economy. It is important that computer games and e-sports are recognised as a good and inclusive leisure service, and that young people are given a safe social framework and guidance and support from safe adults with competence in this area. It is important that this work is followed up by the supervisor who has been developed to make it easier for municipalities to develop good, inclusive meeting places for children and young people involved in computer games, where they may experience being seen, including and feeling safe, and at the same time experience mastering. The SV therefore supports the Committee’s proposal, which asks the government to follow up the meeting places for computer games and data culture. SV is concerned with computer games and e-sports as a wide range and the inclusion arena, and it is nice that sport has success, many consequences and big revenues. But this isn't our main focus. Nor have we given any emphasis to Norway becoming a large, world-leading hub. SV does not want to contribute to the country's secondary schools being forced to accept e-sports as offers, and fully supports the fact that it is up to the county council to develop and dimension its school offerings. Such an offer in several secondary schools is likely to grow gradually as a result of the high interest. SV is uncertain whether computer games such as educational tools in school are the right medicine to lift students who have not achieved the learning goals. SV is engaged in a good school, where teachers’ pedagogical skills and freedom of method enable the school to choose the pedagogical method that best takes care of each student, without the detailed management of the authorities. On this basis, SV will not support the concrete proposals of the Right, Left and Advance Party in the matter, but we agree that the digital game culture must receive the recognition, support and status it deserves, in line with more traditional leisure interests and sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1490	Computer games are the biggest recreational interest among young people today, and they grow rapidly. According to the media surveillance survey Children and media 2020, the proportion of children and young people playing computer games is increasing year by year. All 96 pst. by boys and 76 pst. girls indicate that they are playing, and the increase is clearly highest among girls. This is not surprising to me – I was myself an avid gamer a few years ago. Unfortunately, I had to put it on the shelf when I started the studies and the doctorate, but I hope to pick it up again soon. For many young people computer games are a source of community and identity. Now it is high time that gamers get the support and status they deserve, and that the digital game culture is recognised in the same way as more traditional leisure interests and sports. The left considers it important to create meeting places where young people can meet and play with others. The report Meeting place Data culture from 2020 shows that young people playing computer games have the same needs for meeting places as those with more traditional leisure interests. The youth also states that they want these meeting places to be co-located with other offers. The left will point out that in its reply letter to the Committee, the Council of State refers mainly to the libraries as a current arena. Several municipalities are currently cooperating with recreational clubs, local sports teams or other voluntary organisations to provide facilities and equipment so that the youth can meet and play computer games in combination with other activities. In the municipality of Sarpsborg, the Youth Culture House as part of the team of the leisure club has shared their competence with the libraries, the cultural school, the communication department and the kindergartens in the municipality. This is how they have created arenas where young people’s skills can be demonstrated and further developed. The left will therefore stress that although the role of libraries as a computer venue can be strengthened, it is about far more players than that. Youth workers in municipalities may also be important intermediaries and contributors in cooperation on such offers. For the Left, it is important that children and young people have a real opportunity to participate in the design of different offers. Left will stress that digital game culture and game development have a high transfer value to other sectors of society. Computer games are increasingly being used as a valuable educational tool in education. This gives children and young people additional skills that will be strongly sought in the future. The left will prepare children and young people for the future labour market. We believe that all children and young people should build digital skills at school. The left will have a school that is forward-looking and equips the students for a digital everyday life and a digitised working life. Computer games provide skills such as cooperation and communication, strategic thinking, analysis and good language skills. These are competences that will be strongly sought in the future labour market. The left will also give all students the opportunity to acquire basic programming skills. There is still an unused potential in computer game-based pedagogics. This will be a very good contribution to the teacher's toolbox. It will also benefit all students and contribute to mastering and motivation. The Left calls on the Government to facilitate better the smart use of computer games education in school and to support the development of more gaming-based learning material.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1508	Yeah, it's time for the gamers and the computer game field to get a lift. This is a cultural and artistic expression, an entertainment product, a leisure activity and also a sport that has been given a significant boost in recent years. Policy has become more offensive, regional and municipal provision has been strengthened, and sport and volunteering are increasingly contributing to new and good initiatives in the field of computer gambling. The Norwegian gambling industry has also strengthened. The government and the Stortinget are already committed to working for the computer game culture through the objectives of the strategy Spelomum from 2019. The needs and opportunities of the field and industry are far greater than what current instruments can contribute to. This is precisely why the government has already started work on a new strategy for computer gambling policy, which will apply from 2023. We've started working on that, and of course it's across departments. This new strategy should further lift the digital game culture. I'm going to look at the government's tools to enhance the availability, security and transparency of Norwegian computer game culture. We need to put in place more physical arenas, where competent professionals and up-to-date equipment can help to strengthen and develop the computer game culture and make it more accessible. Such venues may be meeting places to promote creativity, interaction, competition and not least pleasure over just computer games. I take with me proposals and insights from comments and the debate on the proposal for a representative today, in the further work on the government's forthcoming strategy for computer games. It also includes the challenge of so-called slot boxes and other lottery elements in computer games, which have been addressed by many in the context of the case, and which I will meet through a stricter regulation. I would also like to inform you that we will use the notified strategy to strengthen the knowledge base in order to be able to assess precisely such a code against lottery mechanisms in computer games. I would also like to refer to the government's action plan on gambling problems, which was presented just a week ago. That action plan also sets out measures to regularly identify problem games and behaviour. I look forward to further, good cooperation with the Committee, so that together we can raise Norwegian computer games like culture, recreation, entertainment, creativity, interaction and sport in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1523	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1528	I believe the Council of State and I agree much more with this matter than we did in the previous one, and I want to thank you for a good article. I want to take on board what has become a unanimous recommendation from the committee to follow up the supervisor in order to make it easier to develop attractive, accessible and inclusive meeting places. The council itself said that some of the important thing is to put in place several physical arenas. And the debate also brought forward the report Meeting Place Data Culture, where young people themselves are saying that they want these arenas to be more integrated with arenas for other types of activity. The question to the Council of State will be whether it has assessed or will be assessed that this type of arena can be more widely incorporated as part of requirements for, among others. to receive State funds in connection with the development of sports facilities, cultural houses or other places where public, state money contributes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1537	Making computer games available to more people, bringing together and practicing their leisure activities, their hobbies and their culture, is important to me, and therefore the strategy announced will address new measures to provide it. So I just want to tell the representative that we're doing well. Last Friday I had a meeting with the KS and regions and municipalities from all over the country. There was just getting the municipalities to organize meeting places where people can meet and play, some of what I brought up with the municipalities. It would, of course, be very topical to look at how existing grant schemes, grants through cultural spaces, etc. may assist in the organisation of physical meeting places for computer games outside the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1544	The minister knows how happy I am to talk about Bergen, so of course I won't let this chance go away either. I'm not going to say that it was the world's first, but at least it was Norway's first e-sport line that – of course – was established in Bergen, at Garnes in Arna. It was a big and important step in the right direction. It was also the start of the work that, among other things, The Progress Party – and perhaps especially Frank Willy Djuvik – has taken the initiative to give Westland as a county its own e-sports strategy. That's why the Minister's own colleague, who is the leader of the selection panel in culture, also had an input to us to put in place a national e-sports strategy. Then I wonder why the minister is so negative to a national e-sports strategy, as the Progress Party suggests. Is it just because the proposal is from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1549	No, e-sports as a sport are very important, and of course we will also be able to facilitate the development of e-sports in Norway. It was now that Westland asked for a computer strategy – to be right – but e-sports will also be mentioned in the computer strategy, and we are definitely involved in facilitating its development. But it's also important, when e-sports are like sports to count, that it's the E-sports association that's in the driver's seat to develop that sport in Norway, and not necessarily the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1554	I think it's very positive that the minister was ready for a digital game strategy, but I had hoped that you could still go for your own e-sports strategy, precisely because of the reasons that the minister here himself points out, with the connection and explosion of the type of activity, but also the incredible space of opportunity that Norway has to position itself early in order to consolidate a role here. But is it so to understand that the Minister will nevertheless assess this when creating a digital strategy plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1559	As I said, e-sports will also be part of the upcoming computer game strategy, but we also have to remember that e-sports are just a small part of what's the computer game area, and it's defined as sport. So we have to keep it clear. But, of course, we want to help ensure that e-sports have the best possible framework in Norway, that people are allowed to participate in e-sports, and that major international e-sports events can also be seen in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1564	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1571	It's a pleasure that so many in this room now agree that we're going to recognise gaming as something more than what's going on in boys' rooms in dark cellars. I myself am a mother who has seen the light. From hanging out with the kids because they're playing, I've started to show an interest in what they're doing. Seeing the joy of the kids when mom cares about computer games cannot be described. They definitely didn't expect it. They can thank my colleague Turid Kristensen for that. It was she who made me aware that I was guided by out-of-date attitudes. It may be no longer to wait from one that's grown up with Super Mario and understand little of the pace of today's game, but there's no excuse. For computer games, as has been said, is the biggest recreational interest among young people today, and it is also a rapidly growing sport worldwide. Then we have to cheer up this on the same line that we're on the football field and we're roaring. Gaming and e-sports also have great transfer value to other parts of society, and several schools in Rogaland have used computer game-based pedagogics in education. At Vardheia Youth School, this is being used actively, and they have their own game education and their own room for gaming. The school suggests that all groups should have a game-based approach during the year in both language and social subjects. Rector Eirik Jåtten points out in Education News that research shows that games as a method can have an effect on learning, especially in language, and he is clear that this has come to stay in school. At the same time, he is clear that gambling in school is not the same as it is in leisure. But more should do like Vardheia, for this is good for everyone and perhaps extra important for those who need other ways of learning. But there is also a need for good meeting places for those who want to play in leisure. At the Haven e-sports centre in Stavanger, they have worked closely with schools, sports teams, municipalities, businesses, Nav and a number of other actors. Last week they had a visit to a school class with teachers playing on the schedule. The garden opens the doors into a world that too many have been strangers. They provide facilities, equipment and competence and can offer a unique wide range of services. The bet that Haven is doing is taking part in raising the status of gaming, and the bullying officer in the Gulf sees a clear link between clear cases of bullying for eleven-year-old boys and the increased status of gaming. Using computer games in education and actively participating in the gaming environment, young people can build digital skills and technological understanding for the future. Computer games provide skills that will be strongly sought in the future labour market. It can be anything from collaboration and communication to strategic thinking, analysis and good language skills. The industry is already recruiting gamers. Then we mothers and politicians must keep up with developments and ensure that young people get good environments for both interaction and learning. I am pleased that there are so many people in this room who today agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1584	Game On! Few things are like a good game evening with your neighbor or friend. It's fun, it's social, and shared passion builds community. Gaming is rapidly growing, and therefore we put forward Norway's first computer strategy, which launched a new era of computer games in Norway – such as leisure, sports and nutrition. Because when we know that so many people have it as a hobby, our job must be to make sure that more people can follow that interest in safe arenas. At the Haven e-sports centre in Rogaland, they've got it -- either a single one will drop in for a social night, or if one will do like my name brother, Alexander from Stavanger, who has now become a foreign pro in Italy: train to be the best. Garden cooperates with sports teams, schools, businesses and hubs, getting people from the boys' room to social gatherings, including and giving people the foundation wall on the way to their first job, building social communities around a common passion. I am very pleased that we are now getting a majority for better organisation for several such meeting places and e-sports centres throughout the country. Used correctly, computer games are an excellent source of learning. I'm proud of my old high school Revheim, who used to work with an early school teacher of her own for the smart use of computer games in teaching. It is good that at least the Right, Left and Advance Party in the Chamber today will be concrete that this effort must be strengthened. In an increasingly digitised labour market, many young people now have digital skills and technological insights that others can only dream of. Language and history, cooperation and communication, analysis and strategic planning – the list is long. When crew companies ask young people to put gaming on the CV, it shows that something is about to happen. The status is increasing, and many young people receive a new entry ticket to the labour market, because they are needed. The entire breadth of business is now in demand of competence. So this is a very exciting industry in itself, with opportunities for value creation in the job. So here's just one thing to say: Game on! Game On!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1594	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1611	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines will be given with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The first speaker is the representative, Tage Pettersen, who is the working case rapporteur in the absence of Turid Kristensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1620	This matter is one of many where the committee offers a recommendation that we are actually behind. Although we use a little different words in the comments, I see that we are all happy that the government Støre is following up the work of the government of Solberg in this area. The proposal proposes to strengthen the right of fathers to parental leave and to have a fairer parental pension scheme, where fathers who have earned the right to parental leave must be given the opportunity to take out eight weeks of parental leave without requiring a mother's activity. In addition to those amendments, it is proposed to amend the rules of withdrawal in case of tight childbirth and a minor amendment to the Cash Support Act, which reduces the benefit by one month in connection with the transition to kindergarten. The right-hand objective is a good, fairer and more flexible parental pension scheme. As of October last year, there has been a free postponement of parental leave, so that parents can decide for themselves when they take parental leave within the child's three-year-old age, and we have programmed that we will work to provide fathers with self-sufficiency and exit rights in relation to parental leave. The legislative proposal we are examining today thus supports this. In our note, we point out that the EU directive on balanced working and private life allows the introduction of two weeks of leave to be postponed until 2 August 2024. We follow this up with a call to the government to consider an introduction of the last two weeks at a time earlier than the deadline set. This is a request I will assume that most of us will certainly stand behind. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the aim of the EU Directive is to facilitate more balanced working and family life and to promote equality between women, not least their participation in the labour market and a more equal distribution of care responsibilities. That's a goal I hope and think we can all stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1635	Today, when we discuss the matter of changes in the law on popular protection, strengthening fathers' right to parental leave, we state that we are taking another step on the road towards good universal arrangements in Norway. The Hurdal platform stressed that the parental leave should be extended and that both parents should be guaranteed independent claims on their part of the leave with the child. It was also intended to maintain today's father's quota and further strengthen fathers' rights. Today, with this proposal, we are on the right track to achieve these important points in the Hurdal platform. But why is this so important? Why is it important that fathers get leave and time on their own with the children in the first year of life? And what does this tell us about what society we live in? If we look to other countries, we see that Norway, with its leave of absence, ensures parents and children the opportunity to be together at home in large parts of the first year of their life, so that they have time to develop a safe relationship, become familiar and enter into new routines of breast-feeding, sleep and family roles, to mention something. In an equal society, both superiors must be given this opportunity. This is an important political choice. Not only must they be given the opportunity, but experience from many countries shows us that without economic incentives, there are very few fathers who can take advantage of this opportunity. Family growth, as we all know, is also a period of great spending. In my previous job, I taught a lot on a prenatal course. Permit rights and their interpretations were a recurring theme that we spent a lot of time on in the courses. I met someone who did not have the right to leave, because my mother did not meet the activity requirement, and I had many conversations with fathers who, in response to the course's focus on the importance of father's role in childbirth and the first year of life, could not understand why this right did not apply to everyone. It was simply experienced both incomprehensible and unfair. Now that we are dealing with this proposal, it is about giving both parents – mother and father, mother and co-mother, or father and grandfather – equal opportunities to have equal importance for their children. Today we can guarantee to all children the right to a few earmarked weeks with both representatives, and it is pleasing to the Labour Party that this proposal seems to be unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1646	In this case, a number of amendments are proposed which aim to strengthen the right of fathers to parental leave. This is an overall committee behind it, and it's very positive. The centre party is concerned that both parents should be equal to caregivers, and we believe that both take leave and are at home with the child, strengthen the relationship between parents and children and give the children the best conditions for good growth conditions and secure relationships. A flexible regulatory framework that can be better adapted to the situation of parents, we believe, is an important and fundamental position. The legislative changes take into account all factors that may affect parental withdrawals, which will simplify red tape for several parties. Finally, I would like to point out that the time when the children are so young and need this close and good follow-up and the relationship building with their parents is fast. It is therefore very gratifying, from a gender perspective, that these changes can lead to both parents achieving a greater balance in the important infant phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1655	Yes, this is a good day, and it is primarily a good day for the children of the country, for the fathers, but also for equality. Of course, it is a good day for the Progress Party also, who has established this in its programme, but who also a year ago promoted this proposal, where we stood alone in this Chamber at that time to give fathers this right. But now, after just a year, there's actually a unanimous committee in favour of the change. That's how sometimes the Progress Party has to suggest things sometimes, and then it's debated, and then there's hope that people turn around. And nothing more pleases me than that you've actually taken fathers' equality challenges seriously and now corrects this mistake, because it's actually about equality. In fact, many families today are missing out on parental leave to father, and much of it is due to old-fashioned and out-of-date attitudes earlier in the parties on the left, which have now fortunately corrected themselves. In fact, it is very important to take into account that gender equality also deals with issues for men. We have pointed this out in a number of cases, including the right of fathers to parental leave. Fortunately, many good improvements have been made in recent years, and today we are getting an important and proper step forward. I hope that it helps to give more freedom to the families, but also that you now share in giving children first and foremost a right to both parents. It is the individual family that can best decide for itself what is right for it. Therefore, I hope that this is a small, but good step on the right path to give parents generally more freedom in their everyday lives to decide about their own family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1662	It's always a pleasure when we make changes that strengthen parents' rights to be able to have more time with their children without compromising the family's finances. We are now making the parental pension scheme fairer, by allowing fathers who have earned the right to parental leave to take out eight weeks of parental leave without requiring a mother's activity. It's announced that today's change is the first of two steps, where fathers' rights in the next round will be extended to ten weeks. The amendments relate to Norway's compliance with the EU directive on balanced working and family life, which sets the deadline for the introduction of the last two weeks to August 2024. The SV supports the government’s proposal, but will nevertheless encourage the government to look at the possibility of introducing the last two weeks earlier than August 2024. We are pleased that there is also a proposal for a change in the rules on abortion at tight childbirth, so that parents do not lose parental leave because it has not been possible to wind up these weeks in time. We also support the proposal to shorten the cash support by one month. In fact, SV believes that we should wind up the entire cash support scheme, and notice that the government is taking a small step in the right direction. Self-evident exit rights for fathers and co-mothers are an important recognition that both parents are important caregivers for the children. It is important for the children’s association with both parents in the first year of life and an important step forward towards real equality between parents as carers. It is good to know that this is a matter of great cross-political agreement, but most importantly it is that this is a good thing for the children, for the parents – yes, for the whole family.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1675	Our parents are for most of us, perhaps, the most important people at the beginning of life. Time with the young children is so important for how life becomes later for the children. What's good for our children is often also good for society as a whole. That is why the parental leave scheme is so important. But it has unfortunately been that until today not all fathers have had the right to withdraw parental leave. It was therefore important for the Christian People's Party in the state budget of 2022 to say that we wanted to change the legislation in this area, and I am pleased that a joint committee actually ensures that all fathers with their own right of service are given the opportunity to take out parental leave for eight weeks. All children, regardless of their mother's activity, need time with their father. Father is important in a child's life. The parental leave is primarily important for our children, and therefore it is also important for the Christian People's Party. I am also pleased that in 2018 the Christian People's Party received an average of up to four months of increased leave for twin parents, and that those who get vibrations or more, as parents can be at home with their children for one year. That is why I am also pleased that in 2019 we were given the opportunity to extend the period of parental leave for parents who have premature children – that leave ends at the same time as it would have done according to the date of birth. This is primarily important for the children. This case is also one of the things that one also wants to change the law about the cash support. It is certainly not a bomb that the Christian People’s Party will not vote for it. Then, on the one hand, we now want to give parents greater opportunities, and at the same time, we restrict the possibility for some parents by subtracting a month from that payment. So we don't want to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1686	The Norwegian parental pension scheme is well developed. Both mothers and fathers can take out paid leave, but a group of fathers have not yet had the same opportunity as others to withdraw parental leave. It's the fathers who have children where mother hasn't set up the right to parental leave. If mother doesn't want to, or doesn't have the ability to go to work or other activity after birth, father can't take parental leave today. The proposal dealt with by Stortinget implies that fathers who have lit the right to parental leave are granted the right to take out eight weeks of parental leave. So they can take out these weeks even if mom doesn't go into activity after birth. With this change, fathers' right to take out parental leave is strengthened, and father and children can have more time together. The proposal also gives fathers the right to take out up to two weeks of parental leave in connection with birth. Fathers who are employees are entitled to leave to help their mother in the context of birth, but some fathers are paid by the employer, while others are not paid during this leave. With the proposal we are discussing today, all fathers are able to take leave to be with their mother and children in time around birth. The change does not give rise to multiple weeks of parenting, but it gets more flexibility and can choose whether to remove parental benefits at birth or to save them later. It is also suggested that a change in the rules of withdrawal be made in case of tight childbirth, so that parents do not lose parental rights where it has been difficult or impossible to take them out in time. The legislative proposal will also meet the requirements of the EU directive on balanced working and family life. I take the view that the Directive is met if fathers are entitled to take up 10 weeks of parental leave. There is an opening to wait for the introduction of two of these weeks to 2024, which is also the basis for the government's proposal. I am pleased that a joint committee joins this proposal. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has estimated that about 4,900 fathers receive new dishes each year as a result of this change, and that's good for these fathers and these families. Finally, in the setting, we are asked to forward the last two weeks. Of course, it is possible, but it was actually the previous government that proposed this, and we have decided to continue that arrangement now – and of course we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1701	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1718	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1725	Thank you to the Committee and the Committee Secretary for good cooperation. There is a joint committee that joins the main lines of the proposal. This is mainly due to changes in the current child protection law in relation to multidisciplinary health monitoring – an important change in the law in relation to one of the most complex and vulnerable areas in society, namely children and young people where parents can no longer take responsibility and there is no other way to take care of them. In addition, there are proposed changes to the child protection obligations and changes to the employer's pension scheme. The Ministry of Children and the Family had the legislative proposal on a hearing in December 2020, and the Solberg government issued the bill in June 2021. The committee has had the legislative proposal that has been put forward on the agenda. That is very much in favour of the bill. Studies clearly show that children in child protection have an increased risk of poor physical and mental health. The overall focus of strengthening multidisciplinary health monitoring is, therefore, to identify their children’s needs for help and health needs. This should contribute to better and more accurate measures to adapt the individual. In this way, one will be able to achieve even better stability and reduce the risk of moving and breaking in position, which is particularly demanding for children. If one of these is closed, it will turn out to be positive for both that debt and society. The right to participation and to care for the best interests of the child shall form the basis for health monitoring. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, propose an obligation for municipalities to ask Buffetat for multidisciplinary health monitoring when bringing cases for inclusion, decision or voluntary placement. Whether or not the Buffetat public should have an obligation to carry out screening activities has by date unresolved issues. This is about putting Bufatat in a position to fulfil an obligation to provide local authorities with assistance in relation to health monitoring. The majority make the following suggestions: ‘The government is asked by the government to decide that the public should have an obligation to offer multi-disciplinary health monitoring at the request of the municipality and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner quickly.’ In the case of compulsory payments, it is suggested that Paragraph 13b(l) of the Administrative Act should apply. 5 shall also apply to the protection of children. This may have a positive effect on cooperation with other services such as health, kindergarten and school. There is also a loose proposal from a joint committee. The reason is that a sentence was omitted under A III, which refers to a new child protection law in force from 1 January 2023. For the sake of order: a year is missing in the loose proposal, so it is replaced by the following: ‘In Law 18 June 2021, no. 97 [[...]] I'll deal with the loose proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1747	The representative of Olav Urbø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1752	It is an important issue we now have to deal with — changes in the Child Protection Act, interdisciplinary health monitoring. It is good that the theme comes on the table, and there is no disagreement about the importance of the need and need to monitor children who are in the care of child protection for different reasons. This applies to both somatic, psycho-emotional and cognitive. It is important that children who have had a difficult time should not experience additional stress that could have been avoided by timely health monitoring. The working party would stress the need for professional authorities to have a particularly important role in assessing the timing of the various aspects of health monitoring. The consultation showed different views on when such health monitoring should take place, and this is due enough to the fact that the different parts of the health monitoring have different assumptions as to when they should take place. Taking a blood test or examining the child’s records and health history for proper medication, or going to a dentist to ensure that the child does not have pain, belongs to the somatic part of a health surveillance that is, in most cases, easy to perform early. A cognitive investigation, on the other hand, requires that the child has had enough time to restore safety – in the professional language it means that the child is testable – and that we know what we are testing. Dreams, especially multiple traumas and e.g. the diagnosis of ADHD may, in individual situations, be similar. These are the same areas of the brain that can be affected. A cognitive investigation at the wrong time can identify what was symptomatic and the cause of the care placement, and not neurological disorders. This is what the professionals know. The working party would stress that even if investigations are to take place as early as possible, it is not considered that one should go on chords with the best and best professional care of children when it comes to cognitive examination of any neurological diagnosis. Professionals must be given confidence in making their professional judgements on the timing of each part of the survey and not pressured into making pre-maturity assessments. With this reservation, as the Workers' Party underlined in its majority opinion together with the Centre Party and SV, monitoring is welcome. Good health monitoring, as we want to adopt it now, could give children and young people a greater chance of getting proper medical help, proper psycho-emotional measures and, not least, proper care. Overall, it will enable children to move forward in their development and learning to reach the best of their potential, despite a difficult start – a change to the best of their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1765	Let me also start by stressing the importance of the matter that we are now dealing with. The changes in the Child Protection Act are important for many. Annually, around 2,000 children and young people are in the target population, many of whom can now have a better working life than they could otherwise have had. So the Right believes that we don't go far enough today. We believe that we should say yes to an obligation to avoid that it would be too much because of the individual case handler's judgement whether or not the child is receiving a health monitoring. But I want to pay tribute to the government parties to promote a proposal to carry out an obligation for multidisciplinary health monitoring, and an overall committee supports this proposal. There has been a very great commitment to this matter. In addition, most of the hearing bodies agree with their feedback, both to the ministry and to us in the committee, but I believe that the majority should have listened even more than they have. The UNICEF Committee writes that they believe that there are several compelling arguments in favour of the obligation of the Child Protection Service to refer to the target population health monitoring. The SOS Children’s Cities state that there should be an obligation on both the Child Welfare Service and Buffetat to carry out health monitoring, and the Children’s Ombudsman brings forward the Children’s Protection Act, the Constitution § 104 and the Children’s Convention, which are all demanding to be complied with by taking care if there is no guarantee of health monitoring in children with needs. The Children’s Ombudsman writes: ‘Without an obligation, the judgement of the individual case handler will largely depend on whether the child receives a health surveillance. There will then be a high risk of focusing on non-relevant considerations, such as time and resources to write a reference and follow-up on health monitoring. This would lead to a risk of different assessments between case handlers.» The bodies that I believe it is particularly important to listen to in this matter are those that stand in this every single day. Then, of course, I think of the children and the young people themselves, and not least of the many foster homes. In May 2021, the Foster Home Association presented its study in which over 1,000 foster homes responded. 40 pst. they did not get enough information about the child’s mental health and function before a placement, and 30 pst. they did not receive enough information on the somatic health of the child before a placement. All this speaks for the fact that the Storting should now have taken the step completely out of the way and agreed to an obligation today. But then let's hope that the government will quickly come back with the investigation they're getting ordered here today. I'll bring this up with the suggestions that the right hand side is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1783	The representative Tage Pettersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1788	I am very happy that we have this matter for consideration today. The Committee also paid very close attention in the last period to precisely this type of problem. A little of the background for that was, among other things, the extensive CARE study, which showed very good results in this respect. Of course, I think it's good that we can come up with some consensus here, and then there's a nuance difference. I'm very pleased that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left joined forces on some common proposals, but when we see that it doesn't get a majority, the other solution that was sketched up here is, at least, better than nothing. Nevertheless, I find it a little disappointing that one cannot support the proposal of the Progress Party that is about evaluating this health monitoring scheme, precisely because there was a very high level of involvement in this matter, and there were a lot of hearings that pointed out challenges and not least problems associated with such monitoring. So I had hoped that in a matter that we really agree on in the first place, one could also agree that one should look at the strengths and weaknesses of the arrangement when it comes into force. But it's probably like in a number of other things: that the Progress Party has to promote it sometimes, and then you might get such an evaluation. But in general, I am very happy today that the Committee has again managed to reach some common agreement, even though we might primarily have taken on a slightly different role already now. With that, I would at least like to thank you for a good and constructive cooperation within the Committee. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1801	The representative Silje Hemdal has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1806	This change in the Child Protection Act is long-lasting and wanted by many. Approximately 80 out of 100 consultation bodies have been in favour of the proposal for multidisciplinary health monitoring. The bill was made by the previous government and contained many good elements, and everything was well intended. But we have seen that there were some weaknesses in the original proposal. That's why we have the job to make improvements. Many hearing bodies have opposed legislation whereby neither the municipal child protection service nor the Buffetatate should be required to ask for or carry out health surveillance. As a result, children under public care may not receive the health care they need. It is vital to ensure the best possible health for children and young people that they know what is wrong with them. When child protection enters and decides to transfer or place a child outside its own family, it is particularly important to capture whether the child has any health challenges that require treatment or in particular follow-up. That municipal child protection should make assessments of which children should be referred to health monitoring appears to be too random. There is also criticism of the competence of staff in the service to assess this. Together with the government parties, SV has therefore agreed that we want the municipal child protection service to already have an obligation to request health monitoring for all children where it has been decided to promote a case for county council members or decisions on voluntary placement, unless it is clearly considered unnecessary. We also agree that multi-disciplinary health monitoring requires the consent of the child's parents if the child is under 15 years of age and that children over 15 years of age can decide for themselves. The National Association for Children’s Protection believes that health monitoring should take place after the movement has taken place, and we take this seriously. However, in some cases there may be reason to carry out health monitoring as early as possible in order to provide the best possible offer to the child, but, as Mr Hartviksen from the Workers' Party said, it is important to do the various screenings at the right time. The most important thing here is that the screening should be best for the child and be professionally sound. For SV, it is also very important that the legal rights of participation of children are respected. With regard to Bufetat's obligation to carry out the health monitoring, we should like to see this become an obligation right away. However, we see some challenges in the fact that the Child Welfare Service needs specialist healthcare resources and that it will take some time to build up sufficient capacity to monitor all the children concerned in the short term. We have therefore asked that it be investigated that the public should have this obligation when the municipality asks for it, and that the government should quickly return to Stortinget with this. I know that the capacity of healthcare is a major challenge, but I still expect the government to give priority to this, so that within a reasonable period of time we can ensure that interdisciplinary health monitoring of all children who, for some reason, have to leave their biological family becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1821	The matter we are dealing with today is one that the Christian People's Party has been working on since we entered the government offices in 2019. Not only have we worked on this, there are many – including in this room – who have done it. But there are people who require an extra thank-you, and I believe that is the Children's Ombudsman. They should be very grateful for the job they have done. Finally, the Stortinge must get this case over to the country. Since this is new crime, it's not really taken a long time, but when we wait for something good, it can sometimes feel longer than it really is. I am therefore pleased that an overall increase agrees on the main essence of the proposal, namely that children and young people who have to leave home should receive health surveillance and thus receive the help that each individual needs. It will mean a lot to those who need us all, most of all. There are always demanding considerations that must be made when the authorities decide that a child or a youth can no longer live at home with their parents, and unfortunately sometimes it is best for the child to move. But when a person makes such a decision, it is a great responsibility. I am therefore very pleased that today we have a law that will give child protection a much better starting point for giving the kids the best care they need. Many of these children who are assisted by child protection have been subjected to severe stress, and over half of the children living in foster homes and in childcare facilities have mental problems. I am therefore very pleased that the proposal we presented is also changing to the better for the young, and that we, together with our former government partners, are helping to strengthen that proposal. The Christian People's Party will announce that we will vote in favour of the proposals of the minority Right, the Progress Party and the Left, but we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals of the government parties and the SV. Then I will also report that the Christian People's Party is behind proposal No. 4, all of which agree on an amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1841	Children in child protection have the same right to the necessary health care as other children. For this reason, I am very pleased that the Stortinget today deals with a bill on multi-disciplinary health monitoring for children who are being moved out of the home. This is a matter that I have been concerned about for a long time, including as a representative of big business. When the government decides that a child should and must be moved out of the world, it has a special responsibility for giving the child the best care and follow-up. In order to provide proper help, we need to know what the child needs. Health monitoring shall contribute to this precisely. In this way, children may be provided with adequate health care and follow-up. It may also reduce the risk of fractures and accidental movements in child protection and provide children with more organised child protection provision, which will increase their safety and stability. I would like to stress that health monitoring should be a voluntary measure. The child’s right to participation and to care for the best interests of the child is a key principle of child protection, and it also applies to the provision of multidisciplinary health monitoring. This bill was made in the Storting of the Solberg government. One weakness of the proposal was that municipalities did not have a clear obligation to ask for health monitoring for all children in the target group. It was they added to the Child Welfare Service who were to assess the need for something they did not always have the competence to do in my view. I therefore fully support the proposal from the majority that municipalities be given an obligation to ask Buffetat for multi-disciplinary health monitoring for children in the target group, when this is not considered to be unnecessary. Such a clear obligation will also be a resource-saving obligation for the child protection services in municipalities. The majority of the Committee calls on the government to decide whether the public should be obliged to offer multi-disciplinary health monitoring at the request of the municipalities. It is a proposal that I will be following as soon as possible in cooperation with the Minister of Health and Welfare. Health monitoring is entirely new, and it is a multidisciplinaryly specialised measure. Testing of the action started in the autumn of 2021, and it is currently only possible to identify a part of the target group – there is a known shortage of health professionals in the paediatric psychiatry, and it will take some time to build up capacity in line with the needs that this health monitoring will require. However, we are not in the target until all children in the target group are offered health monitoring. Law fastening is a step in the right direction. I must finally say that when the old government parties now go further than us, I must remind you that it was they who made this bill to the Stortinget without either a municipal or the president: state duty. Now they've turned in a very, very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1858	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1863	I first get to thank the Council of State for her boasting that we have done a good law even better – or suggested doing a good law even better – through the work in Stortinget. One of the big issues we've all been dealing with is the obligation. We're all happy that there's a majority to figure this out, even though some of us want to go further already today. Several of the hearing bodies, not least the Children’s Ombudsman, are very clear that the challenge today is that there is too much discretion on the part of the individual case handler, with a high risk of different assessments for the individual child. Norway’s human rights institution is another body that brings this about. The question to the Council of State is: What will the Council of State do until an investigation is made clear, and until any obligation is taken into account by this Stortinget, in order to ensure that the case handlers out there actually have the competence to carry out the assessment for which they are responsible, in a good manner, in the best interests of the child?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1872	I will follow that proposal in a good and justifiable way. The most important thing now is that the Child Welfare Service and Bufetat provide a haven for health monitoring – which one has had before, but in a very inappropriate way and with a lot of extra work. I'll follow up on that. Then I have to say again that a law has been even better. The representative refers to the hearing statements, but the representative could also have listened to the hearing statements when his own government put forward hearing suggestions on this, because it was exactly the same criticism. No one actually called for the solution proposed by the old government. I did not choose to draw the matter, because I wanted it to progress, but it was in short that here the Storting had to make improvements, and fortunately the Storing has done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1879	It's only now that the law has been being treated in Stortinget, so that's only now that we at Stortinget can have some opinions about it and to the extent that they also hear the hearing bodies, and that's what the Stortinget does when we deal with a law. I hope that even the current government's big group can sometimes find out that the world might look a little different than what the government is proposing in its investigations. The Council of State did not respond to what she would do to increase the competence of the case handlers while she herself is now sitting and is going to investigate this obligation, which was my question instead. But I can ask questions now about the progress of this investigation. How quickly does the Council of State think she can come back to Stortinget with a matter, as a unanimous bigotry today asks for?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1886	To answer the previous question about securing competence clearly, there is nothing new in this. It is exactly the same challenge that was posed by the representative's government in the bill. We need to secure that competence. There is nothing new with that distribution proposal. When it comes to the time we can come back with an obligation destination, I mean when I say that this is a high priority task for us, and it says in the decision from Stortinget that we will come back quickly. Of course, we're going to follow that up, because I have respect for the Storting. What is a problem, which I think everyone can also see, is that there is a lack of health professionals. If we could just adopt it, it was easy, but that's why the obligation destination is a little harder than it might seem, because you have to get health professionals to carry out this screening. I want to do that, and that's a matter I'm very involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1893	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1912	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1919	We are now debating proposals from the parties Right, Left and Christian People's Party on the teacher-specialist system. For a long time, the Stortinget has had ambitions for school and school content, including teachers and teachers' opportunities. Career paths and developments are important for many professions, including teachers. Development in own work is what triggers many workers, including teachers. The Committee carried out consultations on the issue on 3 February. In its setting, the views of the parties are well expressed, and I assume that the parties will explain their position. Two proposals, from two minorities, are being promoted today and the majority are in favour of the non-adoption of the proposal. I now want to explain the centre party's introduction to the matter. The teacher-specialist scheme was established as a pilot scheme in 2015 and consists of the teacher-specialist function and teacher-specialist training. The scheme targets the entire initial training in some selected areas. The evaluation of the scheme came from NIFU in November 2021. The centre party has come from the scheme, criticised the lack of anchoring among the parties and that, on the contrary, this was more politically motivated than based on professional needs. As the Minister of Knowledge refers to in his letter of reply to the Committee, the government is in the process of facilitating more career paths in school, with the aim of stimulating the maintenance of school skills and strengthening development and professional cooperation in school. Being opposed to the teacher-specialist scheme is not the same as being against empowerment or extended opportunities for teachers in school. The Centre Party, alone and together with the Workers' Party and SV, has, in several rounds, promoted clear alternative proposals for recruiting qualified teachers throughout the country. This concerns opportunities for teachers in the profession, opportunities for those who are outside the profession and must be recruited, as well as recruitment to the profession and teacher training and teacher training. The rate of non-compliance is too high in all areas. The result is that the students do not receive the instruction they require when qualified teachers fail. The teacher-specialist scheme has until now been a pilot to test a function — and a definition — of school specialists and a system of further training. The centre party believes that too many people have had too little benefit from the scheme. In the Hurdal platform, the Arbeiderparti-Senterparti-Registration shows that we want to facilitate more career paths in school, with a party-based system that gives teachers better time for development work and strengthens the professional community in school. We want to learn from the NIFU report. The centre party meets the government's further work and believes that teachers will be better cared for by a new government action, which ensures qualified teachers at schools throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1938	There has been legitimate criticism that the government, together with SV, chooses to wind up rather than further develop the teacher-specialist system. The system of teacher specialists was part of Solberg’s government’s historical commitment to teachers’ skills, school development and early efforts. For the Right, it is important that education policy is knowledge-based. Just days before the Nordic Institute for Innovation, Research and Education, NIFU, presented the final evaluation of the system of teacher specialists, the budgetary agreement between the government and SV concluded that the scheme would be terminated from the autumn of 2022. There is reason to ask what the decision-making basis the parties had. The evaluation for NIFU shows, inter alia: training yields good results and that exciting tasks, the desire to fill, professional development and new challenges make the system motivating and attractive to teachers. In other words, the evaluation shows that we were on the right track to achieve important objectives of the scheme, namely that it should help skilled teachers to experience good professional development opportunities and want to continue teaching. Furthermore, the scheme shall strengthen the collective professional community and develop the school as a learning organisation. NIFU points out in the report that surveys conducted among teachers have shown positive developments in the perception of the scheme and that it has become more well known and accepted in school over those years. In its consultation on the proposal for a representative, NIFU pointed out that this positive development could be related both to the fact that the scheme has been implemented over time and that there have been more teachers specialists in school. For the Right, it has been particularly important to prioritise teacher specialists in initial training. Of the more than 1,800 teachers specialists in the classrooms in 2021–2022, about 500 are specialists in initial training. These have been particularly important in the early life of the school, but also have important skills when it comes to closing the gap of knowledge out of the pandemic. It takes time to develop and phase in new schemes. There is therefore a significant risk that government and the SV decision will slow down school development and make it less attractive for good teachers to continue teaching. Rather than wind up the teacher-specialist system, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party are asking for the scheme to be further developed in cooperation with the sector. This is supported by the teachers, from the students, from the principals and the school owners. The NIFU report should form a good starting point for further work, and with this I take the proposal Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1951	Then the representative Jan Tore Sanner drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1956	The teacher-specialist scheme was a pilot scheme and the final report of the experiment was ready in November 2021. As a result of the budgetary unity, the scheme has been concluded, but those who started the study programme in the autumn of 2020 and 2021 will, of course, be completed. The teacher-specialist system of the right administration came from the very beginning. The experiment was set up without involving all the parties in the school, the experiment was made permanently without involving all the parties in the school, and a functional supplement was introduced that was not anchored by the parties. The objections and feedback from the en route sector were not listened to. This is probably an important part of the reason for the weaknesses of the scheme identified in the final evaluation. It points out, for example: lack of role clearance, lack of formality and lack of transparency. Who grants specialist training is unclear, and the process of recruiting specialists in each school is unclear, and this weakens the legitimacy of the positions. There is no formal link between a position as a teacher specialist and teacher specialist training. Those who have been admitted to teacher-specialist training are not guaranteed a specialist position when they return to work, nor is there any requirement for such a specialist further training to enter into the function of teacher-specialist. Then, a main purpose of the scheme is new career paths that keep the teachers in school, but the final assessment also points out that it cannot be demonstrated that the scheme has met that objective. So these weaknesses, but also the successful aspects of the scheme, are to be included as experiences and learning points when establishing a new scheme, this time not from above, but in dialogue with the sector and with the partners at school, a scheme for new career paths at school, and to strengthen the profession community at school. We are impatient about that, and therefore, together with Red, we are also promoting a proposal here in the Chamber to show it. Even though the Council of State has notified much of the same thing, we want to show that such a system has a anchor in the Stortinget, and that that is something we want to repair. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1973	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1978	The teacher-specialist scheme was a pilot scheme with the aim of testing a model of specialist function for teachers and an associated training. There is no automatic continuation of pilot schemes unchanged as a permanent scheme. Among the criticisms of the scheme have been the lack of role clearance, formality and transparency. Finally, the final evaluation report is now ready, and it provides a lot of useful information to take with us in the further work. When we start developing a new scheme, it will be based on the experience of the project. In the Hurdal platform, we are clear that we want to facilitate more career paths in school, with a party-based system that gives teachers better time for development work and strengthens the profession community in school. The testing scheme with teacher specialists was initially not anchored by the parties and the functional supplement is also outside the contract work. I think that is critical. The starting point of the Labour Party is that we will engage in dialogue with the parties, based on the Hurdal platform, to facilitate more career paths in schools. We are clear that we will replace the teacher - specialist system with a party - anchored system. Teachers must be included in the design of the layer. So there will be full pressure on continuing education with the government sitting there, and we will provide more career paths. For the Workers' Party, nothing is more important than good teachers to provide learners, and that is exactly what our practical policy also shows. The Workers' Party and the Centre's government platform state that we will continue to invest in the development of competence in the school, and for the 2022 budget, that means a total of 1.7 billion. kr. It's a costly system, but we think it's an important investment in professional competence and professional development in school. The important thing is how the students are doing, and we're going to do what we can for them to learn, and for them to thrive well. Then we have to ensure a good and adapted competence throughout the school. I don't think the answer to that is the Right Teacher Specialists' System, rather a new system that is just anchored in the teachers themselves. If we are to give our children a good school where everyone learns well, nothing is more important than qualified teachers with the right skills and time for the individual child. Then the career paths in the school must support that, and therefore I am glad that the Council of State is clear that she will engage in dialogue with the parties, follow up the government platform and take with her the experience that is now from the end of the pilot scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e1993	Red also supports the desire for good provision of continuing training for teachers. But the biggest challenge for Norwegian school today is to provide enough qualified teachers. The Federation of Education has a campaign these days called Misstler.no, in which it is expressed that 16 400 teachers are missing. At the same time, one in five of those who work as teachers today lacks teacher training. We're in a situation that can be described as a teacher refugee. One of the trees with teacher training is no longer working in school, and it is almost 40,000 teachers. This can be seen as a reserve force, but as long as they're not in school, they're not teachers either. Studies have been carried out to show that teachers drop out of working life as teachers because they believe they have too little time to teach and spend too much time on testing, screening, etc. We have to make sure we get a school with enough qualified teachers. It is especially in the districts that there is a challenge with enough qualified teachers. We've seen examples of good economic communities offering bonuses to get teachers. We believe that this is unwise. We believe that wages should contribute to the recruitment of the profession through collective bargaining and agreements, not individual employment. Red believes that all teachers are specialists. That is why we also believe that the teacher - specialist system must be abolished. We share the concern of the trade union movement that the scheme can lead to an a-layer and a b-layer among teachers, and that it helps undermine collective pay systems. I would like to refer to the joint proposal by Red and SV, which has already been taken up by the representative from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2006	We are now interrupting the debate on substance. 9 and ringing for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2018	It summons the alternate for Finnmark, Sigurd Kvammen Rafaelsen, takes no seat. The size is then ready to go to voting on the case no. 1 to 6 on today's map, and then to deal with case no. 15, Unit, before the debate on case No. 9 goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2035	A total of two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party and Red proposal No 2, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may have breached the criminal provisions of the Criminal Code for matters revealed in the National Audit Office’s Document 3:12 [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2061	There are some people who have made a mistake. We'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2073	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Swedish National Audit Office is asked to carry out a revision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ grant to the International Peace Institute for the years 2012-2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2107	During the debate, Mr Melby presented two proposals on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that no representatives of public Norway visit the Winter Olympics or the paralympic games in Beijing in 2022.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy that will lead the Norwegian use of diplomatic boikot for major international sporting events.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2138	The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2150	There are several that have been corrected - we will resume voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2169	A total of ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-5, by Ingard Schou on behalf of Right and Left proposed no. 6-8, by Guri Melby on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposed no. 9 and 10, from Guri Melby on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 9 and 10 from the left. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an ambition to enter into a separate partnership agreement with the EU in order to ensure full participation in EU green giving, as part of the ongoing dialogue with the European Commission on enhanced industrial cooperation.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with proposals to implement amendments to Norwegian law and regulation in order to ensure full compliance with the EU ‘Clear for 55’ package.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2205	Proposal No. 6-8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative of a green industrial partnership with the EU to ensure the best possible conditions for the export of Norwegian zero and low-emission solutions.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure Norwegian participation in the IPCEI programme for batteries.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider the initiative to establish new IPCEI programmes for liquid sea wind, bioeconomy, green shipping and carbon capture for storage and use and to return to the Storting appropriately.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2234	Proposal No. 4, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all the provisions of the fourth railway package of the EU remain applicable to Norway’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2249	Proposal No. 1 to 3 and points 5, from the Right and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that any investigation of alternatives to the EEA Agreement also includes an investigation of what Norwegian EU membership would entail for Norwegian citizens and Norwegian business.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider notifying the investigation of alternatives to the EEA Agreement as a premise that Norway’s link to the internal market should be established.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the result of the treatment in the EU bodies of the ‘Clear for 55’ package and the positions recommended by the government to Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to inform the Storting appropriately about the progress and extent of Norway’s participation in the financial agencies EBA, EIOPA and ESMA, the European Railway Agency and the EU Energy Agency Acer.’; [[ERA]] The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2291	Right, Left, and Environmental Party The Greens have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2310	During the debate, Sofie Högestøl has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the freezing of payments of EEA funds that go directly to the Polish authorities until the conditions of Polish law are substantially improved.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of payments to Polish civil society through the Batory Foundation.’ The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2341	Red and Left have been notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2360	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward in all. It's proposed no. 1-3, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No 4, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of Right and Advance Party proposal No 5, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of Right and Left proposal No 6, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left proposed no. 7-10, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 11, by Hege Bae Nyholt on behalf of Red Proposal No. 11th from the Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 12, first paragraph, point (c) 2 is replaced by the following: minimum 1 pst. the profits of the company are set aside for action against gambling problems.» The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2398	Proposal No. 7-10, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to return to the Storting as soon as possible with a proposal to abolish the gambling monopoly and to introduce a licensing system providing for a level playing field for Norwegian and international gambling companies. The scheme shall continue the three guiding principles of the game policy’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to amend the Marketing Act so that all licensed gaming companies can legally advertise their products’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a broad and external evaluation of Norwegian gambling policy as soon as possible, including the exclusive right model. [[game monopoly]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to lift the sales ceilings of the lotteries, merge the permits and remove the expiry date of the lotteries’ licences.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2430	Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for close follow-up in the field of gambling and the influence of international actors and, by 2024 at the latest, to return to Stortinget with an evaluation of the Norwegian gambling monopoly, the so-called exclusive model’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2445	Proposal No. 5, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Commission to investigate the scope, within the framework of the exclusive right model and EEA law, for the lifting of the sales ceilings of the lotteries, for the aggregation of permits and for the removal of the expiry date of the lotteries’. The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2463	Proposal No. 4, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortingen with a reassessment of the provisions relating to the role of the Lottery Authority in the processing and supervision process at the same time as the submission of a case on DNS blockage’. The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2480	Proposal No. 3, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to complete the work with proposals for DNS alerting or DNS blocking.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e2495	Proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to maintain its current governance in Norsk Rikstototo’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement the necessary changes to the private lotteries legislation to facilitate digital payment and distribution solutions as soon as practicable’. The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3127	It's going to be written over A § 26. The right hand side and the progress side have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3141	It's going to be over the rest of A. The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3155	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3169	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting. Furthermore, it was set:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3183	The Labour Party, the Center Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3202	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-4, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of Right, Advance Party and Left proposal No 5, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of Right and Left proposal No 6, from Tage Pettersen on behalf of Right Proposal No. 6 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that several municipalities make their multi-purpose halls and cultural housing arenas organised for data matches and e-sports competitions, for example through the use of games and other grant schemes.’ The Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats, the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Free Alliance support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3231	Proposal No. 5, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting the introduction of a regulation on lottery mechanisms in computer games in Norway and, where appropriate, assessing a ban on this.’ Red, Christian People's Party and the Greens' Greens' Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3248	Proposal No. 4, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for better use of computer game-based education in school.’ The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3265	Proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the selection of e-sports for more secondary school students in line with other top-level sport lines.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to open up support for initiatives for international e-sports events in Norway.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3290	Proposal No. 1, from Right, Advance and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to develop a national strategy for e-sports in Norway.’ The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3391	The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 9, and the first speaker is Abid Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3396	It becomes clearer and clearer for every day that the Støre government's motivation to pursue politics is to reverse. We have seen it with the judicial reform, the regional reform, the teaching requirements and what we are discussing today: the teacher-specialist system. For all these reversals in common, they are attacking measures or reforms that were introduced to provide citizens with better services and services throughout their lives. Either the government has strong problems in implementing its own policies, or they just have incredibly low ambitions. The low ambitions go beyond our students and our teachers. The teacher-specialist scheme was introduced as a pilot of the Solberg Government in 2015, as one of several civil action to bet on more and better teachers and higher status of the profession. We were going to get good teachers to go to school, and the students were going to learn more. Teacher specialists are helping to strengthen the school's work, among other things. early interventions and help to increase the quality of education. This is a policy for which the Left has been working for many years. Evaluation also shows good experiences with teacher specialists, including: report to the principals that teachers specialists are doing an excellent and good job and that they are raising education in schools. Four out of five teachers who have taken teacher-specialist training believe that they reflect more on their own teaching, and three out of five believe that education has strengthened their teaching. Professional teachers who have completed teacher-specialist training express that they, among other things: have been improved to facilitate the professional needs and interests of students. There is something strange here — when these are the feedback from the teachers, from the principals and from the school system and it obviously does not make either the minister of knowledge or the government satisfied. The government lowers the requirements for teachers. They lower the quality of the training we give our students. After years of pandemic, we need the opposite, but on this the government doesn't deliver at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3407	I think everyone in this room will do the best for both teachers and students, and I agree with the representatives in that career paths for teachers, among others. must aim at maintaining teachers in teaching positions. Good teachers we need where our students are. I believe it is important that career paths in school should not only be something for the individual teacher; it should also help to strengthen the professional communities in school. The pilot with teacher specialists has been a useful test. At the same time, I am sure that it is possible to make a similar arrangement both differently and better. I notice, among other things. that there have been uncertainties about the role, tasks and responsibilities of teacher specialists. There have also been shared opinions as to whether the time resource of the function has been sufficient. It's important for me to have the parties on board when we're going to put together a career path system. What we're going to do has to work for teachers, students and principals. I am already establishing the framework for this work. In our time, we start the dialogue on what should be included in career paths. Together, we're going to come up with a common understanding of content and what should be done further. I therefore believe it would be wrong to pre-empt it, for example. are disciplines or age levels which should be given priority. At the same time as I have dialogue with the parties, I work in the selection of continuing education and training. In October they will, among other things: providing assessments of the importance of continuing training for career paths in school. This we have to include in the further work. This means that this process will take some time, but it is important to use this time to anchor good solutions for the school sector among those who are going to use them. Those who have taken teacher-specialist training have gained more competence. This will still be useful for them and the schools they work at. I trust that local development work in schools will continue even if we take the time to work out a well-established new system. However, we will benefit from the skills already filled with our teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3425	In this case, the government on collision courses with the students, the teachers, the school leaders and the school owners, who have all asked for further development of the system, is not going to wind it up. I also realized that there was a starting point for the Big Government in the budget for 2022, where it was not in favour of the extension of the scheme by the Solberg government, but a continuation. A few days before the final evaluation came from NIFU, SV agreed to wind up the entire scheme. Does the Council see that the scheme is now being phased out and that important development times will be lost before any new scheme is in place, and what decision-making basis did it have when going to wind up the scheme instead of further developing it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3432	I agree with Mr Sanner that there has been a great deal of importance in the system that has been in place. I also think it is very important to learn from the NIFU evaluation. At the same time, I would say that when we say that we are going to anchor and develop this with the parties, that is exactly what we are going to do. Then it's unnatural to start by saying what it's like, to go to the parties and say, "That's the way it should be!" We are concerned that we will develop this from the start to the end in cooperation with those who wear the shoe, who will have clear ideas about the challenges to be solved in school, what to do to make it better to work in school, and also what to do to give teachers the skills to where they need it. I allow myself to quote from the Storting's own hearing on the matter, where the Education Association also says that they support the intention to create a new system, but that it is unrealistic to put it in place already now, because there is simply no time to anchor a new system, and anchoring is an important point in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3439	It is true that the Education Association wanted further development of the scheme, but they warned against winding up. That's what's going on right now. 2 000 to 3000 teachers were ready for the autumn to participate in the development of the school and the professional community, to the delight of the students. What is happening now is that the scheme is terminated, and then you have to sit down with the parties and develop a new system. It'll take time. We lose important development time in school during the period that the Council of State is now going to sit with the parties. In the proposal that the civil parties are promoting today, we have also opened up the possibility of further developing the system in cooperation with the parties. Then we would take care of the important competence that lies there, the teachers' specialists would not be separated, and you could be based on the experience you have. Instead, it is now terminated. What is the time perspective of the state councils for the development of a new regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3448	It sounds to the representative Sanner as if the skills available in school are now disabled because this particular pilot is no longer going to exist. It also appears that, when the representative Sanner describes the development work done at school, there is no development work in Norwegian school. I totally disagree with that – there is a lot of important development work in Norwegian school every single day, both because of and despite political efforts that have been made in the past. I am concerned to maintain that when we are going to develop a new system, it should be with the parties. If I were to say that it takes a week, a month or a year, I would have pushed the consensus we're going to come up with with those who wear shoes. I can't do that. I don't want to do that either, because some of the points must be to agree on what the challenges are, to agree on what challenges to solve, and how best to arrive at a mechanism that contributes to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3455	From 1977 to 1977, there have been conflicts in this room about how to organise working life. The main line has been that the red parts of the Stortinget and the Center have essentially come together against the blue parts. What is and has been the Central Party's line is that the Center Party wants a well-organized working life, because that's the prerequisite for a safe family life. And the Central Party line has always been and is that Norway should stick with its own workers, i.e. permanent employees, temporary employees and seafaring workers. The centre party has always seen a whole in this, that we are going to organise the working life so that it meets the labour demand we have in a legal way. It's not an easy job to do, because working life is so diverse. But one here has to have an overall perspective on it, and we have to constantly make laws that make business get the labour it needs. That's the main point we're after. During the previous period, we received an improvement and clarification of what is in permanent employment, which is enshrined in the Working Environment Act, Section 14-9, first paragraph. It is now clear that employment is to be permanent and unlimited, that the rules of the law on termination are to apply and that the agreements are to ensure predictability of work in the form of a real scope of employment. It was through the illegal possession of the employment contract that NHO Service and Handel had, which was called permanent employment without pay between assignments. It was a great improvement, and I haven't seen anyone disagree in the definition of permanent employment after that. Then we have temporary employment – the Working Environment Act § 14-9 second paragraph. There are different letters: a, b, c, d, e and f. That's the letter f that is now being removed, and it has the full support of the Center Party. We were against it when it was introduced from 1 July 2015, and we have always said that we disagreed with a general access to temporary employment, sail if there is a time limit of 12 months, that is a standstill period, and that is a maximum number of 15 pst. by the labour force. As the representative Tuva Moflag said, an overall trade union movement reacted to it in its time, and it is also documented in the setting that it has been used little. The most important thing that then remains of temporary employment after this tightening is point (a) of the second paragraph of Section 14-9 on temporary work. It is an important provision, as I would say, that there is a need for a discussion of the content of detail, because we need to define ‘temporary character’ more clearly. It is quite obvious that seasonal work, asphalting, snow mining and plant production in agriculture fall under the «temporary character», but there are demanding grey areas in industry which live by the winning of tenders, for example in the shipbuilding sector and in construction. So that's why there's a need to go into that section more closely -- I just want to say it right away. Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act also states: ‘The employer shall, at least once a year, discuss the use of temporary employment under the provisions of this paragraph with the trustees, including the basis and extent of such employment. and the consequences for the working environment.» This part of the Working Environment Act is also important for vitalising and getting more attention to it. With regard to what the representative from the Right referred to, the possibility of getting a foot within the working life, I believe that the Right rarely or never assumes that at any fixed employment there is a probationary period of six months. It is a real probationary period and the probationary period is used and is an important factor in permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3477	We were many who took part in political strikes to show clear resistance to the proposed deterioration of the work environment law that was both promoted and adopted by the civil government. We know that the mantra was that a modern working life needed a modern and flexible law. Of course, a lot of things have changed in the world of work. It is no longer the case that the price of the goods at the store is manually checked, which is done with barcodes. We know that we communicate with kindergarten and school through digital aids, and we do have pay machines for floors. But still it's hard both to raise goods in the shelves and to lift up children to give them comfort, and to join the race about how many square meters you can get to mop in the shortest possible time. And also in a modern working life, workers need protection, and that is precisely the basis of the Working Environment Act. It is a law of protection to protect workers against the crooked conditions of power in the labour force. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary, still, to strengthen the law. We also heard the mantra that more people had to try out in the workplace – people who were far away, with holes in the CV, with disabilities – as if working life were some kind of ‘Idol’. Work is the basis of income, of security and of community, and therefore the resistance was very great. The disabled people's organisations said we should not push them in front of us, in the weakening of our everyone's security. There were strong warnings also from the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, among others. because young people, women and pregnant women would be more vulnerable in the workplace. We all know that a temporary contract means a cash discount on housing loans. That's why it's been SV's view that the weaknesses that the right-wing government caused to the workers, that change and that lack of protection, we have to do something about: we have to change that, paragraph by paragraph. So we can disagree today on the extent to which this law has been applied and the extent to which it has changed the working life. I am quite convinced that the enormous access to the use of hired labour has made the possibility of general access to temporary employment less used than it would have been if it had not been so easily available, both in law and in working life. A good society is not based on unemployment, but on full and permanent jobs. This is what provides the basis for professionalism, for contributing over time at work, and that is what provides the basis for joint organisation and development. Therefore, it is very gratifying that the Storting now has a majority who are gathering to reverse the general access to temporary employment. I look forward to making strong restrictions on the use of rentals and the other weaknesses that the right-wing government has caused to workers in this country. It is a joyous development that is absolutely needed to do something about power conditions, and to provide a good and better organized working life for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3491	It's in the working life as in the love life: a period may be fun with a little work off, but in the long run you have to get into a fixed relationship. Having a regular job is a prerequisite for living a safe and predictable life. A regular job is what makes it possible to plan your daily life, to get housing loans, but a permanent job is also what gives you the security to organise your trades, to tell you about critical conditions at work. If you are temporarily employed and stick your head forward, you risk not renewing your contract. Temporary employment is hampered by the labour force. All kinds of untimely work weaken the trade movement. Apparently, Norwegian trade union movement is doing well. The number of professionally organised sessions last year, but there is another number that gives cause for alarm, and that is that the proportion of workers who have worked in a collective agreement company has dropped significantly. In 1998 was 77 pst. by workers in Norway covered by a collective agreement. In 2019, the same figure had dropped to 69 pst. That means that about 250,000 workers have lost the protection provided by a collective agreement. This decline has taken place under several governments, and developments can be seen in the context of the fact that the most well-known lay-off machine, namely the manning industry, has grown in size and success, especially in construction and in the yard industry. Here, the large, well-organized contractors are largely replaced by manning companies where foreign employees are too lukewarm and cold water and are not afraid to organize themselves. It is moving towards a two-fold division of Norwegian working life, and the well-organised part is getting smaller, while the unorganized part is growing. The unorganised part is characterised by tenders, redundancy and low wages. There may be contractors – bicycles with a pizza on the luggage board – or hire Eastern Europeans on construction and yard, and when the unorganised part grows at the expense of the organized, the trade movement will at some point lose its power in society. Fewer and fewer strikes can be made, and the decline continues, it will not be possible to carry out effective strikes at all. It was the Advance Party Council Robert Eriksson who in his time opened up for general temporary employment in 2015 and who got a historical general strike in return from the Norwegian trade union movement. The first Solberg government did when they came to power a few years ago, was to establish that it would be as nice to be unorganized as being organized. It's a desk theory from Right House that's no more realistic than the dream that it should be just as nice to work as dancing. No Norwegian government in modern times has been as pronounced a union enemy as the one we have fortunately put behind us. The trade union movement has reacted strongly to this, and Red was given a majority in its time for the government to work for increased organisation of the labour market, but the Solberg government went straight ahead and finally lifted that decision without providing a single measure. For this reason, Red has made a number of proposals to replace unemployment with permanent employment, for example. removing the general access to temporary employment and the prohibition of agency staff, clarifying and tightening the responsibilities of employers and closing gaps in the law allowing bankruptcy to be used in order to get rid of collective bargaining agreements. The Solberg government did not directly combat organised work, because it costs too much to go into direct conflict with LO. Instead, they indirectly attacked the Norwegian model by supporting the manning industry, opening up temporary employment and liberalising the taxi industry. The crew industry was a heart issue for Erna Solberg. She admitted in the summer of 2018 that her biggest defeat was that the bulk of the population tightened the rules for hiring labour. But now, fortunately, we have brought Erna Solberg even greater defeat than that, because at the elections last autumn we had a historically left-winged maggot with 100 of 169 mandates on the red-green side. That is why we have finally and fortunately also received a new government from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which so far delivers a lot of good policies on working life that we in Red have both worked for and supported for many years. Of course, we also support the removal of general access to temporary employment. There is no reason to believe that this problem is big today, but if you tighten up the manning industry, it will leak to another end, and then the interest in abuse of temporary employment will increase. Therefore, it is necessary that we make the changes to the laws that we need to ensure that regular employment is the main rule in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3508	The government has proposed to remove the general access to temporary additions, and I am very pleased that the Multiplicity of Storting is now joining this. The proposal is part of the government's objective to strengthen employees' right to permanent membership and to facilitate a safe and organised working life, because it should be easy to organise. We want workers to have more power over their everyday lives, and that also means that the proposal that is being discussed here today is closely linked to the proposals when it relates to renting and the right to a full-time hearing. It is also about the proposal relating to collective redress, which will subsequently be discussed, and proposals for further follow-up from the Fuugner Committee, to which I will come back later. The goal of strengthening the right of fixed additions is very good reason. Fixed additions not only provide the individual more diligence and security around what is future income and what is the working situation, but having a high level of fixed additions will also contribute to a more competitive and adaptable business. Not least, it will be able to contribute to more productivity because, among other things: is invested more in the competence of those who are permanently added than those who are only in short assignments. The determination of a general access to temporary additions violates the basic principle that permanent labour needs should be met by means of fixed additions. It differs from the other bases in the law by not setting requirements for specific reasons for temporarily assigning people. When our goal is to produce fixed additions, access to temporary additions must also be limited to situations where there is a specific and time-limited need. It also means that the destination we now have up to treatment points in the wrong direction for the development of working life. This is a destination that was introduced in 2015, and it was in particular the reason that an increased access to temporary additions could serve as a springboard into working life for groups that have traditionally had difficulties getting in. However, the mappings that have been carried out do not provide a reference point to conclude that the destination has helped to achieve such a goal. On the contrary, the surveys show that about half of those temporarily employed achieve a fixed position after one year, but that for those groups who have difficulty getting into the labour market, they are less likely to go from temporary to permanent jobs. So we also have several studies that support that even if temporary additions can serve as an entrance gate for some, they can also act as a blind road, because it makes it harder to move on in the labour market. In other words, increasing the use of temporary additions is therefore not the right way to promote an inclusive working life. Surveys also show that the destination is of little use, which means that the need for flexibility is adequately addressed by the other destinations already covered by the law. So in other words, there's a number of reasons for lifting this destination, and I'm very happy that the majority in the committee are behind that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3530	It's a little hard to understand the reasoning about this change. I understand that the majority in Stortinget disagreed with the changes that were made in 2015, but also in the contributions of the Council of State, it was presented both as a serious attack on the Working Environment Act and permanent employment, and at the same time that it has had no effect. Both things cannot be true at the same time. Now both the representative Bergstø and the representative Kristjánsson have said that this could lead to getting fired if you stick your head forward, that pregnant women would have trouble getting a steady position and all these things. Then is my first question to the Council of State: are these statements right? Have the changes that were made in 2015, which have been evaluated and which the Stortinget also decided to evaluate, led to the horrors that are now being voiced from the pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3537	The evaluations provide us with a very good basis for both discussing the destination and taking a very clear position on it, because what the evaluations show is that it is a destination that is clearly less used than it was advertised when the destination was introduced, which shows that there is already sufficient flexibility in the work environment law. But it also shows that one cannot simply conclude with what was claimed when the destination was introduced. One cannot claim that those who have been outside the labour market and have had difficulty getting in, will be easier to move from temporary to permanent jobs. There is no basis to say. On the contrary, you can see that even though it may be an entrance portal for some, it is a blind road for others, and you can ask yourself why the right party and some other parties insist on maintaining such a blind road in the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3542	I think, if you look back at the debate from 2015, that both the horrors from the left and the trade union movement were wrong, and that some of the hopes that the government had at the time did not strike. As I said in my post, it is clear that those who are most remote from the labour market need, above all, both places of action, language training and work training to get in, and this change was not primarily meant for them, but precisely, as the Council of State says, for some of the others who have had access to the labour market. My second question really concerns what the representative Lundtigen pointed out, namely that we have six months of probation, and it is ‘real’. Now the Fuugner committee has shown that it is not, in fact, in the sense that if you look at the case law, it's quite demanding to cancel someone who's on probation. It means, again, closing one door again and referring to another measure, which the Fuugner Committee itself refers to does not work according to that purpose. Does the Council agree with the representative Lundtägen that today's probationary period is real and is a substitute for temporary employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3549	One has a probationary period today, according to the existing legislation. The Fuugner selection has come up with a number of recommendations relating to how to interpret employees' rights, as well as employers' obligations. It is not unknown to this assembly that I have a strong sympathy with the recommendations of the Fuugner majority, but I want to come back to how it will be followed up at a later date. But when the right-wing representative is busy saying that things have not been linked to this destination, neither as the right-wing party claimed when it was introduced, nor as the left-wing party said, I would just stress that this debate is not just about how much the destination has been used. The debate is also about what kind of working life we want. I want to be very clear that we want a working life in which employees and employers experience, as much as possible, that they are empathetic, and if it happens to be a user's temporary addition, part-time or renting a lot, the balance of power in the world of work will be disrupted. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3554	What seems not to be mentioned when discussing these issues are the constraints and constraints that came at the same time as this general approach was introduced, for example. that, as the Council of State said in its statement, you cannot use temporary labour for permanent tasks, because then the time goes out after 12 months, and then you have to get a regular job. This is why you said you can't have more than 15 pst. employed in temporary jobs in a company and said that if you end the relationship, you should have a quarantine period. It might be some of the explanation both of why it hasn't been used anymore, and of why not some of the horrors that the left-hand side came up with when it was introduced. And then my question is back: what happens – so if you look at the results – that it is so important for the government to tighten up on this, which has therefore led to someone having access, within a clearer framework than what happened before the Solberg government arrived?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3559	I feel that I repeat myself here now, but it is now time that the evaluations that you have related to the use of this destination show that one, rather than a part of it, complained about when the destination was introduced, that one should make it easier for groups outside the labour market to get into the labour market, have seen that precisely those groups have less probability of going from temporary to permanent jobs. The evaluations also show that although it is true that there has been an entrance portal for some, as the representative from the Right says, it has nevertheless acted as a blindway for others, because it makes it harder to get more into the labour market and get a solid foothold there. I would like to stress this government's ambition that more people should have a solid foothold in their working life, and that it is safe, firm and complete. That's what we're going to work for in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3564	I understand that there are different political views in this matter, but the Labour Party has long had a rhetoric that temporary employment is a freelance society. I am pleased that the Council of State here obviously has a somewhat more moderate line now when one has entered the government, but the Council of State does not agree that one often meets oneself at the door, when the proportion of temporary employment is most likely to be in municipalities that are run by the Labour Party and the Central Party, because they run most of the municipalities in the country today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3569	I found it a little difficult to understand this question. It seems that the representative considers that when there may be a problem situation in one place, one should not try to clean up and arrange another location. There should be no doubt about how this government wants to shape its future working life. It is safe, firm, whole settings we want to be the main rule and norm in Norwegian working life to an even greater extent. I know that many spokesmen and state politicians from both the Labour Party and the Center Party, and probably also from some other parties, are working very systematically to get up to that very thing: safe, firm, whole positions that workers can go to in their municipality. That doesn't mean one has arranged everything. There are still several problems to solve, and I'm very motivated to actually do it with the rest of the layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3579	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3586	Is there one thing that remains after the eight years we've had with the Right in government, that's how they had the opportunity to choose, but never took sides with ordinary workers. Time and again we saw a government that weakened our employment rights. Time and again, they weakened the organized working life with strong unions we have in Norway. Time and again, the working life we young people meet made us more uncertain. What remains is the greatest betrayal of the labour policies of the right-wing parties, as they are open to weaken the labour-environment law and gain more temporary employment. Imagine that you've just reached the age of 20, and you've decided to work. You apply for many jobs, but the only one you are offered for is a part-time job for three months. Then the three months are extended to three more months, three more months and another three more months – finally without justification. Every time you ask, do I still have my job the next time the contract expires? During the time you work in the workplace, you dare not say no to extra guards who are not really appropriate. You're afraid to report yourself ill in danger that your boss might think you're too much gone, and in the worst case, you're afraid to report unfriendly experiences or sexual harassment, because the option of losing your job is either worse than just standing in it. The perception that many young people meet in the workplace is that they don't need predictability when they're young. The right-hand side argues that increased temporaryity means more freedom in the workplace. It's wrong, because there's no young people wanting more freedom in a working day where you can't plan your life ahead. There are no young people who will have the flexibility to not be able to get mortgages. And there's no young person who wants the freedom not to dry up or start a family. Increased temporaryity is the opposite of freedom and opportunity – there is increased insecurity and insecurity. Temporary employment is still possible if necessary, but there is no need for a working life where several young people meet temporarily without justification. Now this government is cleaning up. The Working Environment Act shall not be weakened; it shall be strengthened. If there's one thing we young people should have, there's a safe working life with permanent jobs, a working life where we can contribute and engage in our work in the same way as the bosses, and a working life where it's safe to notify or report unsolicited experiences because we know it's not dangerous. It's the Norwegian working life that we're so proud of, and we're going to keep fighting for in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3601	When the former government introduced general access to temporary employment in 2015, this meant a weakening of the right to permanent employment. Today, we're going to correct past mistakes and previous priorities. We are now taking the country to a new course – a straight course. Safety for work is one of the most important things you have. When investing in housing, whether it's in Finnmark or here in Oslo, fixed income is something that temporaryity cannot provide. Because in caring for the family, it is important to know that you have a job to go to – today, tomorrow and in the future. You have to have a predictable future. When planning your vacation, you need to know that you are safe at work. For us, safe and secure work is the number one job in this government period. A serious working life with strong tripartite cooperation is the key to moving on. That is why we doubled the union deduction before Christmas and strengthened the right to an organized working life. Decisions we made then, and decisions we make today, ensure little differences among people. Safe workers create more, and safe workers provide better health. Fixed, entire positions must be the norm in Norwegian working life. That's what the voters have clearly stated in last autumn's election, and now we're going to keep that promise. This is about paragraphs – but it's really about people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3612	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3629	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each political group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3636	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work. VTA workplaces – permanently organised jobs – in the sheltered or ordinary activities are an important part of Norwegian working life. Many people who have a disability have gained dignity in living with VTA sites. In many cases, those sitting at the bottom of the table have received this offer; having a job to go to, feeling useful, helping to create something and not least to have a community in lunch, sharing life's experiences. VTA came as a result of the HVPU reform a few decades ago. Being able to give this part of the population a job and a rich life makes sense to have a position as a politician. In recent years, there has been an increase in VTA places, and that's good. What this issue is about is how fast the number of VTA slots is going to increase, and how the follow-up is going to be for those in the ordinary course of business. Should that follow-up take place through the normal channels of Nav and all labour market enterprises, or is there any other way to do so? All in all, a foundation that works with organization and follow-up in the ordinary business is one of the proposals. Last week I visited a labour market company in Tvedestrand in old Aust-Agder – Lisand, an intermunicipal enterprise in eastern Agder. There I had the pleasure of seeing and experiencing the amazing people who work in that company, among other things. weaving workcloths and dishwashing cloths. The joy and pride I saw over the operations they did, and the pride of doing a craft, we may not see so many places other than in those types of businesses. I'd say it's unique in the workplace. When I then had a conversation with the supervisors there, they also said in Lisand that they can do exactly the same job as Helt Med, and they do it to a great extent with lots of places in the country, but they have to be able to do it and get the opportunity to do it through Nav. The Committee agrees that it is important that Nav guides are well involved in the follow-up of participants in VTA in ordinary activities and not only at start-up. It is important that VTA participants wishing to work in the ordinary course of business are properly followed up. There are slight variations between proposals today. We in what seems to be the minority, want a little more complete reason and evidence of what we're doing, because after all, there are perhaps some of the weakest in society we're going to help. We are concerned that we will get a good offer for those who need it in the VTA.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3651	In the Hurdal platform, we state that anyone who can and will work will have the opportunity to do so. In our goal of full employment, there are opportunities, but there are also responsibilities. The government is basing its work on welfare and labour policy, and that is because work and well-being are linked, both for individuals and for society. This also obliges the community to set up active measures to help people get into work. People with disabilities and health challenges shall meet an open and inclusive working life. In the Hurdal platform, we say that we should strengthen more mechanisms to get people to work, including permanent job placements, and make them available to more people, as we also showed through the first budget made available by the Workers' Party-Center Party government in the autumn. The members of the government parties support the intentions of the proposals that have been put forward and are being discussed here today, but we believe that there are elements in the wording that are problematic. We are therefore promoting two loose proposals in this matter. These proposals are promoted on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. In the first proposal, we ask the government to investigate the need for more permanent, well-organised jobs in the sheltered and ordinary activities and to return to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way. In the second proposal, we ask the government to develop better follow-up models in VTA-O, inspired, for example, by Hel Med, and to get back to Stortinge appropriately. Organised follow-up of persons with developmental disabilities in normal working life must be of a lasting nature. There are two reasons why we are here proposing alternative formulations for what is in the vote. First of all, we want to add to a more thorough process than is achieved in the time available until the 2023 state budget is presented. Secondly, we're a little concerned that a sentence that locks it to a degree of follow-up similar to that in the whole Med model might make sure that you don't get the right follow-up for everyone. People with developmental disabilities are a diverse group with different needs and assumptions, and some of them may need more extensive follow-up than what is provided for in the Whole Med model. With that, I will deal with the two proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3662	The representative Tuva Moflag has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3667	Disability is not the same as inability to work, and our crystal-clear goal must be that all those who can and will get a job – let more people share in the community, contribute to the creation of value and experience the joy of work. On the Right Guard, we put in a lot of concrete measures, among them 3,000 more permanent jobs, so that we now give work to 12,000. There are many of them in history, but that is not enough. Two of the trees with slight developmental barriers are still standing outside and knocking on. Measures must be taken. First of all, we need more permanent jobs. Therefore, the Right proposed a permanent, obliging escalation plan with at least 1,500 new jobs. Unfortunately, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV are voting. But we're not going to surrender, and we're going to continue to fight for more places in the annual budgets. Luckily, however, we have been given an assurance that the government will present an inquiry into the need now and in the future already in the autumn. It will provide us with a good factual basis for a predictable escalation in the coming years. In addition to several long-term jobs, we need to improve our follow-up. Many employers don't give people the chance because they're not sure if they have the resources and skills to follow up well enough – and that's not the way we can do it. Then we have to think about something new. And the whole Med model is an example of such innovation. There the employee gets closer and lasting follow-up of job specialists. The employer is better supported in such a way that the threshold to say yes is lowered, and the employee becomes safer and is able to stay in a job over time. I am very pleased that we are now getting better models for following up those who will try their way into the ordinary working life, where actors other than Nav are also going to contribute. And I just want to thank all those who have contributed, whether it's Emily, Adam and John and those in whole Med, who have inspired us, or the parties in the hall who are voting for or giving supportive remarks. It's a big day for many disabled people when we now take a big step to get more people to work. With that, I'm going to deal with the suggestions that the right hand side is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3682	The representative, Mr Stokkebø, then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3687	This is a joyous day, for now we are dealing with a matter that is important for thousands of people in Norway, namely a stepping-up plan for permanent job placements, called VTA. Norway needs to include more people in the labour market. Too many people are unfortunately outside. Unfortunately, the proposal for an obligatory escalation plan was already voted down in the revised state budget in June, but we are able to get a majority for a compromise proposal to investigate the need and come back in 2022. In addition, we agree that actors other than Nav, e.g. Completely Med, who is doing an amazing job, can be responsible for the follow-up. Unfortunately, both the Labour Party and the Center Party are opposed to this, but fortunately they are not in majority, and it is likely that all the other parties on the Stortingen are joining forces to adopt it. Completely Med is a great model. Unfortunately, the whole Stortinget isn't quite there, but it's the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3696	A little while ago I had a very pleasant visit here at Stortinget. It was by one named Felix. He was here to tell me about his job, what it means to him, how important and nice it is to have a work community and also about the joy of contributing. The biggest wish for Felix was for more people to have the same experience as him by sharing in normal working life. For Felix’s part, it was all the way into working life, and Completely With jobs to include people with developmental disabilities in normal working life. It has been commented that the proposal refers to some rather than others, and that it is one of the reasons why we are not here today, despite the fact that I feel that the intention is quite similar in the various proposals – and it is important to know. The purpose of referring to the Whole Med is just to show an example that can inspire, and also to show that the goal is to include more in the ordinary working life, but that better methods are needed for follow-up, and that there must be a follow-up that is predictable, like commodities, and that will be there as long as you are actually in the job, sometimes. And there has to be room for working life to be for everyone. It is precisely a goal of opening up the labour market so that more people can participate. Then we also have to find new ways to include more and make sure that the arrangement is adapted to the individual, rather than vice versa. Several VTA sites are needed, and the group that needs permanent work is complex and broad. That's why it's very important, and it's very good, that there should be a proper investigation about the need for VTA sites, with the goal of covering them just so that even more people can have the opportunity to participate in meaningful workdays, which are adapted to their particular situation. That's why it's a pleasure that a majority has gathered so clearly today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3707	In Norway, for many years, we have had a workline that many people have suspected not to be a workline, but a social security line. The objective underlying the work line is one of the most important parts, namely that as many people as possible should be involved in and contribute to the Norwegian labour market. It's not only because it's good for society, but also because of course it's good for individuals to be able to join, use themselves and develop themselves through work. Then we have to do something basic about working life so that there is room for more. Durable work is one of the tools we have to get more into the workplace when they have different challenges, disabilities, etc. I am very pleased that there is, in fact, complete cross-political agreement in this Chamber on the objectives of this, both a permanent escalation plan for permanent work and to look at getting rid of other actors, such as. Completely Med, which is the one mentioned most often here. There are some slight nuances in the proposals of the government parties and the opposition parties, but they are of such a technical nature that everyone who is not sitting in this room had to have read it four and five times to realize that there are different proposals at all, so I think we can say that there is a great deal of consensus. When we in Red have been busy pulling forward the whole Med, there is also a recognition that Nav, who is a giant, a mastodont, and who is going to solve a huge number of tasks in Norwegian society, has struggled to follow up a part of permanent organized work. Of course, we want Nav to be able to follow people in such a proper and good way that actors like All Med might become redundant, but we're not there today. That's why we need to be able to get rid of ideal non-commercial actors like Helt Med, who have developed their own designs tailored to parts of these groups, with a completely different kind of specialisation than the giant Nav can allow. This is the background for Red in this case finding together in the world's longest horse shoes with Right, Advance Party, SV and all other good forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3716	Durable work is a very good system that has opened up the labour market to many people who are disadvantaged. Many have come out of isolation and into a work community. One thing is that it can be useful for each individual, but in addition it's useful for us as a society. We need everyone who can be at work to have a real chance of actually being able to be. In the Hurdal Platform, the government writes that we will strengthen more labour market measures aimed at the most remote groups in the world of work and that we want to make them more accessible to more people. Of course, this applies to, among others: permanent work. In the recommendation of the Labour and Social Committee, the government is asked to figure out the number of places needed in the VTA and to come back to the Stortinge in an appropriate way before the draft state budget for 2023. This is going to be quite a short time to make a distinction, at least if it's going to be a full distribution from an independent research environment, like one. In 2012, one was awarded a grant from the Arbeitsforskningsinstitut. What I'm going to do is ask the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to conduct a survey of the assessments to be added to the Labour and Welfare Act and, of course, report to the Storting on the results of this, in its own way and in accordance with the deadlines set by the Stortinget. About one in four of the participants in permanent work are also in ordinary work, and activities in this scheme are allowed to work with their own employees as fathers who accompany the participants. The proposal asks the government to develop better models for follow-up in VTA in ordinary activities. Nav has not reported any particular problems with the scheme, but I would like to see, of course, how the scheme can be improved. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is currently in dialogue with Nav about a test of enhanced follow-up in VTA in ordinary activities, and the experiment will, among other things, include: be inspired by the Helt Med model. The Abeids and Inclusion Department has had discussions with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, showing that a system of reinforced follow-up has many legal, financial and organisational aspects that need to be clarified more closely. That's why the department wants to start with a test. I therefore believe that it is a bit unfortunate already to conclude in advance how such a scheme should be set up, as the setting adds, but of course I agree with the Stortinge's will. I also record that there are two loose proposals for treatment from the government party, and I would like to stress that, in my opinion, they have a wise arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3732	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3737	This is a good day for many people with disabilities who want to contribute to work, when we are going to lower the threshold for employers to give people the chance and create better models for close and lasting follow-up for those who want to try their way into the ordinary world of work. So my question is simply: does the Council of State share the enthusiasm on behalf of the many who can now look forward to better, closer and lasting follow-up in working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3742	Yes, I share the enthusiasm when it comes to escalating the number of VTA spaces, and I am excited that one will develop several models. I even have to admit that I'm excited that one should figure out how to do all of these things. Then there's a disagreement about just how to do it, but not the disagreement about the goal that we're going to achieve here. In any case, I think that when the Storting's plurality is based on the proposals they have made, the government will of course base it on its work. I think it is good that we share the same objective across the political parties, even though we have made slightly different assessments of exactly which instrument should be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3749	The Council of State's enthusiasm meant that no one else has asked for a reply, and we go back to the ordinary list of speakers. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3756	We're lucky to be in the world of work. We don't have to stay at home on the sofa and feel that the days go into each other. This week is the winter holiday in Rogaland, and we are many who are happy to come home, but there are still too many who lack the important distinction between everyday life and leisure – the feeling of weekend. The work to include more in the working life is an important project for the Right and is one thing I am burning extra for, because I have seen many come from the so-called alienation, which succeeds and flourishes as they get an opportunity and some let them into. We miss out on very important and necessary labour by not including more people in the labour market. We all need someone to believe in us and give us a chance. A few years ago, Erling at Nordpolen Industrier stood in Eidsvoll's Square and asked for several VTA sites. Together with Erling, the National Confederation of Labour, NHO Arbeid & Inclusion and all member companies fought to make sense of more through the possibility of work. They acknowledged that the government of Solberg had made a significant and historic uplift for long-term job creation, and at the same time they were clear that the need was great. Then came With its groundbreaking social innovation that offers opportunities for far more by establishing important links between employer and employee, which now inspires and engages more and more employers and sign up to. With it the important follow-up ensures that the working conditions and thus the individual are more successful. Kenneth Stien, Director of NHO Work & Inclusion, has said the following: «COMMUNICATION shows the way in which workers are included in those with a greater need for assistance. The experience gained from the project should be an inspiration for the formulation of public policy.’» And Professor Karl Elling Ellingsen mentions the follow-up to Helt Med as the most important thing that has happened in the field since the HVPU reform. It is therefore gratifying to stand here today and acknowledge that the Right is involved and goes in front of the work of including more and creating better models for an inclusive working life. It is not difficult for us politicians to sympathize with many of those who are out of work, but it also requires that we take action to do something about it. The majority in this room now want a modernisation that will allow even more people to get into work and get the organisation and follow-up that will enable them to succeed in their working life. It also wants the National Association of Workers to be clear and clear. The goal must be for different people to have the same opportunities in a society where there is a need and space for all of us. Today I would like to extend a great thank you to all those who have gone ahead and shown their way. Erling is not alone in valuing a job, and today Stortinget ensures that even more people can get a job, such as Erling, both in the screen and in the ordinary business. It makes dreams possible for even more, and it is extra happy that there is so much consensus in this room about this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3778	Many visits and conversations do not make it difficult to get excited when we talk about this topic. And something that might be equally important is that it's hard not to get touched in the heart, so feel the hurt that it is for those who don't get involved in different schemes, like VTA workplaces and different measures in the workplace. For the truth, for most of us, presumably for everyone, it's being part of a college, feeling that one gets to use the abilities and resources one has innate in it, something that makes us who we are, what makes us feel useful to someone. I think a little bit about it sometimes, the way we talk about people who have abilities and resources, where sometimes we talk about it as a good thing, that we're going to help them, maybe not the right way to talk about people. For the truth, these are people who have a lot to come with, a lot to contribute, a value for us as much as we have a value for them. That is exactly why I am also pleased that this government has made words for action and increased the number of VTA sites. It means something to all the individuals. And even if this isn't the theme most debated in the big debates, it means an incredible amount to all the individuals who experience the pride and the possibility of being in a community, in a college where you can use your abilities, and where you can show what you're good for. I've seen the spark in the eye of several people who've been involved in this, and I'm going to think of all of the places where one can right. We're going to be in the front line of this work. Our government is going to deliver. I mean, we've got a pretty good start on this, and we think we'll continue. As the representative Moflag said, this is a notable group, and we're all going to make sure that we find a place where they can go right. It makes me very happy that we share a common ambition in this matter, an engagement that extends across – as Mimir said – the world's longest horse shoes. Right in this case, I could be on that horse-shoe. It's going to be all right. Then we'll deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3789	There have been many discussions about permanent job placements, VTA. We have experienced an increase of 3,000 during the Solberg administration. Now we're up to 12,000. There was a good strengthening during the period of the Solberg government. The center party systematically went in to increase to more. Why did we do that? Well, because there was a great need, and there were a lot of people who needed VTA, who then and now get it covered by their own efforts from the individual municipalities that are funding it completely. This is a setting where the majority of the Committee, all except the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, say that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have announced a further increase in VTA seats in the coming years. And I can assure the representative Alexander Stokkebø from the Right that in Stortinget we will fight for the strengthening of VTA in the coming annual budgets – just as the Right did when they were in the government position here in Stortinget. We have VTA in sheltered businesses, we have VTA in ordinary activities, and it's about people who receive disability benefits, or who in the near future will be granted disability benefits, and who at the same time need special organization and close follow-up. What happens in the position is that VTA in normal working life needs better follow-up. Nav has a responsibility today, and Nav has to do a better job. Public and non-profit labour market enterprises can do a good job here and should be used more extensively, and there should also be non-profit foundations, such as the whole Med, as described in the position. The people involved are given an opportunity through VTA to enter a working community. One gets income, but the most important thing: one gets a stronger sense of seas. It is a unanimous committee that says it is necessary to make the need for VTA sites visible, both nationally and across different states, and I expect the Council of State to take note of the unanimous comitology comment, for so far we have not seen the need for VTA sites nationally and distributed among different states. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the representative, Mr Moflag, said that elements in the wording of the majority proposal were problematic, and that is why there are two solutions. When it comes to voting down our loose proposals, I would like to stress that the majority's proposals have a good and clear intention, which has the full support of the Centre Party – whether we do not now support them by voting in favour of the proposals of the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3804	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3821	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3828	As spokesman, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee for a good and thorough work on this matter. This representative proposal is about securing sick pay for patients who are in a condition of health as a result of delays in treatment due to covid-19. It is this that is the starting point of the proposal, simply a concern that different people feel that those who follow these outposts are losing their right to sick pay. I would like to present what an assent committee will point to, namely that by 2020 was the average waiting time for the launch of healthcare in the 63-day specialist hospital. For the reference's debt: this is an increase of four days compared to 2019. In the second tertiary in 2021, however, the waiting time was back to 59 days. This is something that a collective committee points to. However, there is a concern on the part of the proposers that individuals who experience non-payment of sick pay will go down from the sick pay to the redundancy allowance, which instead covers 66 pst. It is a concern that the proposers have made clear. But for the majority in the committee, which consists of the Labour Party, the Center Party and the SV, there's a point that when you compare the situation before the Korona and the one we're in now, there's no difference in the number of waiting days. It is worth noting when we are going to decide on this proposal. Another thing that is important is that there are many patients who are in a state of health because of conditions that are not due to the pandemic. Furthermore, it is a very central element that it is challenging to distinguish which patients are in a health queue due to covid-19, or not. That is precisely why we are clear in our vote: we do not support the proposal, but we expect a follow-up of health-care grounds to give priority to all those who need health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3841	The pandemic has caused great inconvenience to many, and the health system has been under pressure. According to the State Council's letter at some point in the pandemic, this has been a challenge and an increase in the average waiting time in the specialist health service. Compared to 2019, the waiting time increased by four days in 2020, and it was clearly related to the covid-19 outbreak. At the same time, the Council of State stated in the same letter that in other tertiary 2021 there was a lower average waiting time than before the pandemic. Thus, these figures do not provide a basis for saying that there has been a strong correlation and an average increase in waiting time for the launch of healthcare in the specialist healthcare service. Therefore, the right considers that on the basis of the information available to us, it is not necessary to change the sickness pay scheme and to establish the rules for exemption in it at this time. At the same time, it may be necessary to provide more information on the number of individual patients who have experienced exposure to treatment due to covid-19. Although the average waiting time has not increased, it is quite likely that more people have experienced having to wait longer, and there is also a risk that some of these would have to go to work clearance because the sick pay period was over. The right will therefore propose that the government monitor as soon as possible the number of patients who have been subjected to surgery and specialist healthcare treatment as a result of the pandemic and who have thus had to apply for redundancy benefits. At the same time, I would like to point out that I find it a pity that neither the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV or Red seem to support such a proposal to get more facts on the table about the fate of individuals and the impact of the pandemic on their health care. I'll bring it up to the proposal right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3854	The representative of Alexander Stakkebø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3859	In these times, with the board we have around us, this may seem a small problem, but in several of the country's hospitals, capacity has been transferred from regular patient treatment to preparedness and to dealing with patients with covid-19. This has had significant consequences for individuals exposed to their treatments and operations. Those who have been exposed to their treatments and operations experience not only health challenges and all that results, but also a significant economic challenge. Some of the patients have waited so long for treatment that they simply lose the right to sick pay, as others have pointed out, and then it is going to be moving them over to redundancy pay. For the majority of those affected, there is a significant economic challenge, as redundancy payments measured against sick pay lead to a 36 pst reduction in income. It is unreasonable for the individual waiting for treatment to pay the price of increased waiting time in the healthcare system. Most of these people want to return to normal jobs as soon as possible, but are prevented because they do not receive the treatment they need. It is worrying that the majority of people in this room seem to feel that it is right that those who lose sick pay and wait for treatment should be forced to make major changes in their lives in order to make the ends meet, when it comes to reasons beyond their control. The majority are more concerned with assessing the average waiting time in the treatments than with addressing the problems encountered by those affected. There may be different waiting times at Sørlanden Hospital and Hammerfest Hospital, and it may be the outcome that makes there just no big difference on average. Extra evil will happen to those affected when they record the availability of private available capacity, but the government does not want these to be used for ideological reasons. Therefore, the patient is not referred further to non-public services. It's sad for them that they're being hit financially by a pandemic, but it's even sad that the majority rather than helping them want to hit them harder, by not being given the opportunity to be treated by private services paid by the public. With this, the proposals of the Progress Party have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3874	The representative, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3879	It is immediately easy to get sympathy for the proposal that has been promoted and is under consideration today. It is difficult not to be affected by those who have to be in a situation where health care has not been provided as quickly as you could – if it was not for the pandemic. There's little evidence that it's a very large group, and that's very good. But it's still serious for them. It's also for people who, for other reasons, wait a long time to get the health care they need, whether it's because they have complex, complicated disorders that take a long time to figure out or there's a lack of treatment for, and that the waiting time is long. It is therefore important to strengthen community and security as a whole, rather than to make major changes to help a group here and a group there. It is simply about the fact that what should be our security when health fails must be built on something solid, something predictable, something universal. That is why SV wants to strengthen the hospital economy, because we know that it is important to be able to have good offers and enough capacity in the hospital across the country. Now it is not our committee that deals with it, but the principle that public health is what needs to be strengthened is also mentioned in this debate. That is why we want to settle the issue of unit-price financing and rather want a solid and predictable framework funding of the healthcare system. It is also important that the arrangements we should live on when health fails are sound. That's why I think it's strange that the same parties that think it's all right, and who have voted to weaken the redundancy money, now feel like bad that people can't live off the sum. I would rather invite you to strengthen the community, the well-being, the hospitals and not least what we're going to live on when health fails or the work is lost, than to run after one and a meter for justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3890	Representatives from the Progress Party suggest that those who have been suspended or treated for the reasons of the coronary apathy should be entitled to more than 248 days of sickness benefit. According to the rules of the People's Redemption Act, there is a right to get sick money in what is then up to one year. Sick pay shall be replaced by lost income and shall correspond to 100 pst. of previous income. And it's also that with the rules we have, the same diagnosis of disease could naturally lead to different degrees of disability, and that also means that the length of the period of sickness benefit is not differentiated from different diagnosis of disease or expected treatment time for the different diagnosis. During the coronary apathy, several health professionals have postponed operations to have capacity and resources to deal with seriously ill covid-19 patients. Postponing a treatment that has been planned is a great impression for the patient and not least for the patient’s relatives. However, in some cases it has been necessary to do so in order to provide sufficient health professionals to deal with those who may need intensive care for an urgent period of time. The Minister of Health and Health has informed me that the average waiting time for health care in the specialist services was 63 days in 2020. As several representatives have been involved, it means an increase of four days from 2019, and we see that it is due to the pandemic. In the second tertiary 2021, the average waiting time was 59 days, which means one day less than at the same time in 2019. It is now too early to say how the waiting times will be affected by the increase in infection and hospitalisation this winter. As the Minister of Health and Health has also informed, there has not been a strong increase in the average waiting time for health care to be started in the specialist services. That's why I think we shouldn't extend the period of entitlement to sick pay, which is a 100 pst performance. the coverage of previous income, and I am pleased that a majority of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs agrees with me in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3901	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3906	In its letter of reply, the Council of State refers to the average waiting time in the specialist health service before and during the pandemic. That's good, but this isn't average; it's about people. These figures tell us nothing about the individuals, for whom health care is, after all. They don't tell us how many people have fallen out of the sick pay system, and now, as a result of the pandemic, they have to pay the redundancy pay. The government says it's hard to figure out – as I understand it – but where it's will, it's also way. Why does the government not support the Right proposal to identify and capture more specifically those who may have been affected by the pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3914	When it comes to waiting times in the health care system, this government wants to prioritise more money for public welfare. I am sure the Minister of Health and Health would like to talk more about it, if she is given an opportunity to do so. I am responsible for both sickness benefits and income insurance schemes, and not least for the redundancy scheme. And one of the things I've already sent out on the phone is not only that one should remove the unsocial career year, which the former government introduced for those who go on the payroll, but also that one should carry out an evaluation, which ensures that one has the best possible information about what it is to help people get out of work, and that one can have a device on the work clearance system that makes a match for those who need it, in a better way than a do today. There will be a follow-up for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3919	I thank you for the answer, but that does not answer the question in this specific case. Here we are talking about – on the basis of this proposal – finding out whether there are vulnerable people who have fallen outside the sick pay scheme and who have now come across on redundancy pay. I see that the Council of State refers to an average, but I want to repeat that this is not about averages, but about people, individuals, patients' health services and not least having a strong social safety network. So I repeat my question: Why will the government not contribute to more facts on the table and support the proposal to specifically identify who is involved and capture those who must have been affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3926	I don't accept that criticism, that this government won't have any more facts on the table, especially when it's related to the facts about the redundancy scheme. If the follow-up that this government has had to pay out of the redundancy scheme has shown, it is that the previous government, set for eight years, does not provide enough information for those who are on the scheme, and those who have fallen out of the scheme because of the repeated unsocial cuts from the right. We have already sent a proposal that includes: means that one evaluates the whole system, ensures that we have more facts on the table attached to who is going on the scheme, what kind of help they need, and not least how one can follow up people who are in a vulnerable situation, in a better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3933	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3940	No one else has asked for a line, but I have to admit that one of the things I miss about municipal policy is that the debates are a little more dynamic, precisely with the possibility of repeating more representatives than just the Council of State. I have to admit that I was very tempted to press the reply button under the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen's post, but I take the opportunity to make an article instead. Although, like the representative Kirsti Bergstø, I have great sympathy for what has been presented here, and the challenge many have faced because of the consequences of the pandemic, I wonder if the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen actually heard his own statement. For what has the Progress Party done to people who are on redundancy pay, who have not been completed by the public, who are completely innocent because they have not received help from the public, and who do not go down from 100 pst. to 66 pst., but that stays standing by zero – that gets nothing, that has been asked to sell away from car and house for social welfare? I think it would have been interesting if the representative Dagfinn Henrik Olsen would reflect on it. If necessary, my recommendation is to re-read the article. Insert work clearance money. Insert zero instead of 66 pst, and think about what it has meant for people in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3949	The President will recall that the committees themselves are proposing what kind of debate they want. If they want lines, there's a full possibility. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3968	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3975	The proposal by the Christian People's Party to introduce exemptions from VAT for goods given for charitable purposes has good intentions to reduce the throwing and destruction of usable goods. That is why the entire committee has put forward a proposal that the government should look at whether today's rules are too rigid or create barriers to circular value chains. The Committee also considers this to be an example. the tax selection of the government must be able to look at. In other words, there is agreement that the destruction of fully usable goods is a problem that leads to over-exploitation of resources, which is neither sustainable economic nor environmental. Nevertheless, there is no majority for more proposals in this round, because as I see the majority, it is a desire for a more holistic approach. It may seem rigid that VAT exemptions for voluntary re-use shops apply only if everyone who works there is voluntary and everything that is sold is exempt from VAT. However, this is not only justified by the fact that an effective tax system requires a broad tax base and low rates. Therefore, VAT should not be exempted or varied. It is also unfortunate that exemptions for some lead to distortions of competition in the disfavor of others, or undermine the establishment of functioning circular business models and value chains. In addition, the exemption from value added tax on all goods for charitable purposes may weaken the control function against black turnover, which can then be explained by the fact that goods are given as gifts. Although the government of Solberg introduced exemptions from food and beverages for charitable purposes, it was because food can often not be resold because of, for example, shelf life or damaged packaging. Nevertheless, manufacturers and suppliers had to pay taxes if they gave away groceries rather than destroying them. In the event of destruction, the fee obligation was abolished. Thus, the economic incentive was to throw away rather than give away. Therefore, exemptions were introduced to reduce food waste. However, although in some cases exceptions to the general rule may be appropriate, it has not been established that this is appropriate for other cases. So although there is no majority for several proposals, there is a general desire in the Committee that taxes should not create unintentional barriers to efficient resource use. This is a good market economy principle. Effective resource use pays off for business, provides better products and services to ordinary people in general and is a good social economy. A well-designed tax system that correctly price the inputs contributes to a more efficient use of resources, which can prevent over-production and waste of resources. I know that the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad wanted to participate in the debate here today, but has been prevented. But I want to take the opportunity to thank both him, as a proposer, and the Christian People's Party for going on the debate, and I am absolutely sure that we will have this followed up, among other things. through the proposal which the entire committee has put forward, and which I explained earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e3988	I would also like to thank you for having this proposal, and for putting the textile industry and its heavy environmental impact on the agenda. The latest reports in the field estimate that clothing is responsible for 6.7 p.m. of the global man-made CO 2 emissions, while shoes account for 1.3 pst. Textile production also has a high consumption of water and energy, while using countries that could have been used for food production. The production and consumption of clothing are out of control, and it also leads to a waste crisis in countries in the south. We also know that 87 pst. Of all second-hand textiles worldwide, incineration or landfilling, and since clothing is often synthetic, i.e. a lot of plastic, there is also an enormous amount of contamination of microplastics. We Nordics are at the top in terms of wear and wear in Europe. Each of us throw 23 kg of textiles every year. If we see a little bit outside of Norway's borders, people in Europe buy over twice as many clothes today as they did 15 years ago, and use them only half that long. If we're going to be able to do something about this huge waste of resources, the responsibility cannot lie alone on each of us. We also need regulations and measures to reduce waste disposal and the environmental impact of the fashion industry. The most important clothing chains can do more to become more environmentally friendly, and the most important then is to produce fewer clothes and ensure that the clothing produced is of good quality and has a long life span. SV, together with several of the batches here in the room today, therefore believes in the consideration of this proposal that producer responsibility can be an important tool to ensure increased collection of textiles for reuse and ensure that a greater proportion of textile waste is recovered. In 2020, the Environment Directorate was commissioned to review and propose improvements to the producer responsibility scheme in Norway. However, the investigation of possible new producer responsibility for textiles fell outside the scope of the mandate. France has introduced producer responsibility for textiles, the Netherlands has also announced implementation, and in Sweden there have been proposals for producer responsibility at consultation. Manufacturers need to be more accountable in order to reduce the volume of surplus goods, to ensure responsible disposal and donation, to extend the service life of the products and to offer use sales, repairs and to provide more reuse, redesign, clothing and recycling. There won't be a majority for this today, but I'm sure through the treatment now we've come a step forward to change the clothing industry. The signals are strong from many batches on Stortinget to ensure that the consumer can choose more environmentally friendly. With that, I take up the suggestions SV is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4008	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4015	I see that the Christian People's Party has not had the opportunity to participate in the debate. It's sometimes like that. However, I would like to boast a little of the Christian People's Party, which has initiated this Document 8 proposal, and of former party leader Knut Arild Hareide, who is really the driver of getting the fee exemption that you have in the matter of food waste, and that you were able to get a derogation from the general food tax legislation. It really came after Knut Arild Hareide took part in the 'Sloessjokket' programme and started a big debate, and then he was able to get the previous government on it. Of course, the Storting also has the same goal as the Knut Arild Hareide went up. So that's a very good purpose. I also see that the proposal here has only good intentions and good intentions. But I believe that what you did in the last growing-up period, that you were able to target it against food loss, was a much easier frame of mind. Food is a separate category, and it is easier to have control on date stamping, as was also stated by case rapporteur Heidi Nordby Lunde. It's also easier to avoid what we're afraid of, for example. that one can use the kind of exception proposed by the Christian People's Party here – in all, the very best intention – for tax evasion, black sales and things that you do not want. Now we've put down a tax sample, and they get to go through and see if there's anything you can do to boost re-use or what we call, in political terms, circular economy – people most call it re-use – and less use and waste. We'll see what suggestions they're making, and then we'll see over time how the exception that Knut Arild Hareide was able to get in will work – if it actually reduces food waste, which we hope for. So I really just want, since the Christian People's Party is not here, to thank them for doing the job they did. I think we're going to let this work, and then we'll see if it has the desired effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4026	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4031	We're going to help have a little debate, even though not many people took the floor. I thank you for the article from the Council of State. In this case, several of the parties have been positive about putting in place an extended producer responsibility regime for the clothing industry, but the government parties are not yet involved. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether this is something that the government will be willing to assess, even in the light of the fact that the Directorate of the Environment is going to review the producer responsibility scheme, and whether you can include the clothing industry in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4038	What is the great freedom of the Storting, and I'm very happy that the Storing has freedom to do, is that even if this is a fee matter, you bring in different things. But I don't know enough about the details of that work, so it also has to be addressed to the climate and environment minister, who is working on it every day. I know him as a very engaged minister and who is certainly more than interested in discussing it with Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4044	I thank you for that. We will definitely continue to follow this up with the Minister for the Environment, but also with the Council of State responsible for consumption, because I think that is also an important part of this. The Minister of Finance stressed the importance of the review requested by the Committee. Does this mean that the government will follow up, and that we now have a review of the tax system to facilitate more circular economy and to facilitate more reuse, and at least ensure that it does not prevent it, as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4051	We believe that the tax committee should already look at it in its work, and that that is what the Storting wants. When there is then a new proposal for a request, we must, of course, follow it up. But we believe that the main follow-up is through the tax committee we have, because there is to be a broad review of the tax system, and then it will be dealt with in the Storting. It's natural, when you want it to be less use and throw, and if there's adjustments you can make in the tax system to make it come through that review.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4056	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4073	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4080	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter, which in these days may not be the biggest kiosk cellar, but which is nevertheless an important matter. The customs tariff carries out an important social task, and it is important that the customs tariff has a good and clear framework for its activities. The customs tariff contributes both to the protection of society against the illegal introduction of goods, to the safeguarding of Community income and to the protection of businesses and jobs from the competition of dishonest operators. What this is all about is, among other things: that today, according to existing legislation, we have one law on customs and trade. In the proposal we have to have two laws: one on customs duties and one on goods. This has generated significant en-route involvement in the consultation process. It's also been a long process. A number of instances have spoken against in the hearing, and there are also a number of bodies that have made their views known. It is also stressed by the Committee that there are arguments both for and against doing so. At the same time, the bodies which have made their views known and which have also been in contact with the Committee in the course of its work have been aware of the need for the work to be completed on this matter. It is therefore also important to help in the further process to bring about a new legislation that is clear and clear, to provide good guidance, to provide clear regulations, and to make the new legislation user-friendly and to contribute to less bureaucracy and a clearer framework than today. The minority in the Committee will probably explain why it is appropriate for a new round to take place on the matter, involving deferrals and further use of time for those involved. There has also been a discussion about the concept of ‘declarant’, which is an established, incorporated concept for those working on customs issues, and it has been important for those dealing with this on the floor, in everyday life, who have had clear feedback, that that concept should remain as before. The Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry, has found solutions for the inclusion in the law of the term ‘compulsory’ and for the continued use of the term ‘declarant’, as it has so far been.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4095	I would like to start by thanking you for good cooperation and dialogue in this matter. As the previous speaker pointed out, there was some commitment, and much of the exposure was realised through long e-mail series about declarants and more. For us in the Right, it is important to ensure the most effective and least bureaucratic management of laws and regulations – and an administration that carries out its tasks for the benefit of the population and business in Norway. In this context, this matter comes well. It contributes to the removal of grey areas and further clarifying responsibilities between them, which we hope can help to simplify everyday life for citizens and those in the business world affected by these laws. Having said that, this is a demanding piece of legislation to digest, and as the previous speaker pointed out, it is important that the law be made available to users through good guidance material, and that adequate guidance and introduction into new laws and regulations are provided. Concerns have been expressed about customs treatment on goods to and from the base. The base is important for Norway and for the Norwegian economy, thereby simplifying the procedures as far as possible in order to maximise the effectiveness of this work and reduce costs and time-use associated with the movement of goods to and from the base. Furthermore, it is important to allow the customs tariff to coordinate control under the two new laws. In this context, it is important that this agency has the opportunity to work actively in the intelligence track by storing information and using observations in its procurement work. Furthermore, it must also be possible to allow the customs office to operate with active collection using drones. Once again, I want to thank for the cooperation and good dialogue – with a desire for the new laws to benefit the population and business through increased efficiency in administration. Before I go down from the pulpit, I would like to thank the presidency for the start of today's meeting with an important reminder of the situation in Europe, which we should all be aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4112	The government's proposal is that the rules on each of the customs authorities' responsibilities should be better structured and made more transparent. The Ministry of Finance believes this is best done by replacing the Customs Act with two new laws on customs duties and goods. The Progress Party shares the objectives proposed today: to have a good structure and not least to be transparent to users. This work has been going on for a number of years, and it was then the finance minister from the Progress Party who sent this proposal to the hearing. The point of sending things to the hearing is that one should listen to what's coming, and based on the hearing answers, we don't think it's useful to do what the government and the majority of people are proposing today. Several feedback is that by replacing one law with two, it involves red tape, not simplification. In particular, law firms and the Association of Lawyers point out that it would be more difficult for users to investigate two sites than one, and that it could lead to a double set of corresponding definitions and a double set of rules that apply under both laws. A fear simply is that the proposal will make the legislation less accessible and less user-friendly, for both the public and the administration, and indicates that this could lead to a deterioration in legal certainty. The proposition argues that there will be a simplification of the tax rate, but the consultation input suggests that it could lead to increased red tape outside the administration. The Progress Party notes that today we are standing alone with our scepticism, but we will take the opportunity to point out that in the context of the legislative work in 2007, it was highlighted as the most user-friendly that regulations on customs and trade were combined in one law. Based on the many consultation opinions after the legislative proposal was sent to the hearing in 2019, we believe that the opinion of users is equally valid today. We fear that today's majority decisions can create confusion for the users of the legislation and more bureaucratic post-work to make the new legislation understandable enough. The Progress Party therefore proposes that Prop. 237 L for 2020-2021 is returned to the government and proposals are made for an overall customs and goods law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4123	Then the representative Roy Steffensen addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4128	Climate change and human activity threaten species diversity, and it is sad to say that threatened animals are often shot to end up in the market for rare commodities and trophies. This is why certification and good customs arrangements are important. Norway imposed a ban on polar bear hunting on Svalbard in 1973, but although polar bear hunting is banned in Norway, there is still a questionable trade in polar bear skin. Norway was the fourth largest importer of polar bear skin in the world between 1976 and 2015. Since 2011, Norway has been raging elsewhere over import nations – just shutting down China. The import of skins is not prohibited by itself, but it is prohibited to trade with skins from endangered polar bear populations. And here's the problem that Storting has to deal with, too many times that Svalbard is used as a transit area to import polar bear skins. Skinna goes through Tromsø and looked into a wider market. However, the control and certification system is poor, and the Tollvesen has therefore seen polar bear skin on the list of risky products, in conjunction with other contraband products. It's going to be shot up to 1,000 polar bears every year. About 600 of these in Canada, and the hunting is done to an extent that is not in any way viable. It is paid the most for the largest skins with the best quality, which motivates to shoot the largest polar bears in the best condition. This selective hunting, in addition to climate change, can lead to the extinction of polar bear as a species. In accordance with the CITES Convention, all skins shall bear a sign of origin indicating that they do not come from illegal hunting, but that is poorly controlled — including in Norway. This is something the Norwegian CITES, at the Scientific Committee, has briefed the Ministry of Climate and Environment on, and they reached the following conclusion in their report on 2 June 2020: ‘We cannot exclude that international trade in polar bear from Canada could threaten the survival of the species.’ In 2019, the Norwegian Polar Institute also advised to stop imports of polar bear skin from Canadian populations until a thorough review and assessment of imports against the CITES Agreement has been carried out. SV has asked questions about this trade and this control system many times, but it has not been contacted. In the proposition on page 38, polar bear skin is specifically named, which shows that here is a problem that we should definitely clean up. With this, I want to present the minority proposal from SV in the setting and hope that the majority in Stortinget supports our proposal to ask the government to stop importing all polar bear skins from Canada until one has had a review of these schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4148	The representative of Birgit Oline Kjerstad then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4153	We have a good toll in Norway. They are present in absolutely all parts of the country, both in harsh weather and in mild weather, and face a lot of demanding challenges. What we are doing now is proposing a new law on the import and export of goods and a new law on customs duties, which will replace today's customs legislation – that is, we get two laws. In recent years, several changes have been made in the division of duties between the customs duty and the tax rate. The tax revenue has been given a more comprehensive responsibility for the rules on indirect taxes, i.e. VAT and excise duties. The customs tariff has been strengthened to carry out effective control and administration of the movement of goods, while maintaining administrative responsibility for customs. The overall objective of the legislative proposal has been to establish an up-to-date law adapted to the responsibilities of the customs office. The legislative proposal makes its own tasks visible and clarifies and incorporates into the law that it carries out a number of tasks for other authorities. The rules on the import of goods and the rules on customs duties have different reasons and purposes. That is why the legislation in this area is divided into two laws. The sharp increase in trade in goods entering and leaving Norway is increasing the importance of customs controls on imports. The customs tariff controls authorisations and restrictions on behalf of a number of other authorities, and it is important that the establishment then has clear and transparent legislation. This is achieved by a separate law on the movement of goods. The new law on the movement of goods is to a large extent continuing the provisions of today's customs legislation on the collection and control of goods collected and carried out from Norway. The purpose of the law is to ensure correct and complete information on goods as a basis for the establishment of taxes and for monitoring and statistics. It is important to have a good and clear law for the marketing of goods. Then we're going to have our own law on customs duties. With a separate law that makes it clear that the rules apply to the public money requirement. The term ‘customs’ is replaced by the term ‘customs duty’. The Customs Fee Act continues the provisions of the Customs Act which apply to the customs claim itself. This includes provisions on when to calculate the customs duty and who is responsible for the customs duty. It also includes rates and basis of calculation, reductions in customs duties on agricultural products and exemptions. Exemptions which are mainly relevant to VAT on importation are moved to the VAT law. The management rules are up-to-date and designed in the same way as for other tax requirements, which were updated by the 2016 Tax Administration Act. Work on legislative proposals has shown that two different laws improve the structure of the rules in each area. Although some hearing bodies have been skeptical about replacing today's customs office with two new laws, I believe the two laws both make visible the customs office's own tasks and make it clear that the department is carrying out tasks for a number of other authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4174	I would like to say that the views expressed by the representative Mr Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party are important points of view that have been present in the process based on the hearing that was back in 2019. That is why it was important in this case, and for me as rapporteur-in-Office, to hear what assessments the bodies that issued their opinions in 2019 based on a consultation document had in 2022, based on the proposition submitted and the work that has taken place along the way. This applies both to our international commitments and to how customs issues are addressed in other countries, in order to contribute to a transparent and comprehensible regulatory framework and to the use of concepts. I would like to say that through the meetings I have had with important actors – several actors I have also met in several rounds – important and useful recordings have been made from both the Toll Association, from the Law Association, from the NHO and from a major actor like Orkla, who is used to dealing with many customs issues in daily life and who has contributed to a position where a person tries to take into account some of the points of view that have come. At the same time, it is given quite clearly that a person wants to complete the process and move on, but not least one also wants to be involved in the further work on regulations, which I have full confidence that the government is handling in a good way. Then there are some other issues that are partly affected by this law, but that also become important in other contexts, and that are addressed by a number of those bodies. This applies, among other things, to what is referred to in the setting, what kind of control houses the customs office has today, and what kind of control houses the customs office should have in the future. There one also refers to the recordings that have come from the professional environments themselves and the possibility, for example, of coordinating control under the two new laws, sharing information with other agencies, storing information and using observation, postblocking and new technologies such as: drone technology. The Customs Tariff carries out an important social mission on behalf of all of us. It is important that they have a good and clear framework for their activities and that we contribute together to the best possible design of the new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-01.ana.ud501e4185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox As a result, today's business card has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
