ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e116	The representatives of Ingunn Foss, Ove Trellevik, Silje Heimdal, Geir Inge Lien, Birgit Oline Kjerstad, Tove Elise Madland and Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen who have been licensed have again taken the seat. The designated alternate of Hordaland, Sigbjørn Framnes, has taken the seat. An application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Tellef Inge Mørland is submitted from 29 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Abel Cecilie Knibe Kroglund, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e165	Abel Cecilie Knibe Kroglund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e176	The representative, Mr Wiborg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e181	I wish, on behalf of the representatives of big business, Sylvi Listhaug, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Silje Hämdal and myself, to put forward proposals for the introduction of temporary border controls. I also ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e186	The representative of Morten Stordalen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e191	On behalf of Hans Andreas Limi, Frank Edvard Sve, Marius Arion Nilsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a new comprehensive car tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e196	The representative, Dag-Inge Ulstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e202	On behalf of the big business representatives of Olug Vervik Bollestad, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I present a proposal for a representative to negotiate a free trade agreement with China on ice immediately if China supports Russia militarily in the invasion of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e207	The representative of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e212	On behalf of the representatives of Grunde Almeland, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, Guri Melby and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the introduction of a lobby register. On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, Sveinung Rotevatn, Grunde Almeland, Alfred Bjørlo and myself, I would like to make representations on better privacy on social media. And on behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on complaints after a refusal of transparency under the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e221	The representative of Ms Olug Vervik Bollestad will make two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e226	On behalf of the representatives of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Dag-Inge Ulstein and myself, I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative to scrape the rigid third of the parental leave. And I want to make suggestions on behalf of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Dag-Inge Ulstein and myself to ensure mentally ill children and young people under 13 years of age throughout Norway an available offer 24/7.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e233	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e238	On behalf of the representatives of Andreas Shelg Unneland and myself, I would like to submit a proposal for a representative on fair competition conditions in Norwegian grocery stores.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e243	Then we have enough to do towards the summer, I think. The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e263	A new member of the Electoral Committee shall first be elected after Terje Aasland, who has become a member of the Government. The President has been notified in advance of proposals by the Workers' Group to elect Lene Vågslid as a new member of the Election Committee. Several proposals are not available, and Lene Vågslid is unanimously elected as a new member of the electoral committee. A new alternate shall then be elected to the Election Committee after Lene Vågslid has become a permanent member of the Committee. The President has been notified in advance of proposals by the Workers' Party Group to elect Nils Ole Foshaug as a new alternate member of the Election Committee. Several proposals are not available, and Nils Ole Foshaug is unanimously elected as a new alternate member of the electoral committee. Case No. 2–6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e331	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e347	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 8 and 9 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e375	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Centre 15 minutes, the Progress Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Red 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Green 5 minutes and the Christian People's Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e382	I want to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. I share most of the analyses in the presentation, and the political line the government has put in the handling of the war in Ukraine, has Right-wing support. It's very natural that the presentation focused on the war in Ukraine, and I also want to focus on it and its consequences, although of course there are many other themes that deserve attention. This completely meaningless attack war has now entered its fifth week. It's easy to think that this represents a whole new security policy situation, and to some extent it's right. Such an aggressive full-scale war is something new, but the continuity of 2008 and 2014 is clearer and clearer. When I made a foreign policy statement on 19 April last year, I pointed out that during the last few weeks, Russia had stepped up the tension in and around Ukraine through the deployment of large military forces. Russia continues to demonstrate its willingness to use military threats to achieve political objectives. We have to deal with the world as it is, and not as we would wish it were. It's war in Europe. It is the same Russia that attacks Ukraine, which is our neighbouring country – there are not two different Russias. Although this is a debate on the foreign policy presentation, it is natural to comment on the government's signals on increased appropriations for defence in 2022, in addition to the significant increases in the current long-term plan, which was adopted as late as 2020. These increases are necessary and correct and have full support from the Right. The situation will also require more in the future. We are in a kind of perfect storm, where Russia's renewed attack on Ukraine both creates and strengthens other crises. Even before the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, the world faced a food crisis. It is now dramatically exacerbated. Russia and Ukraine total 30 pst. of the global production of wheat, and 20 pst. of maize flour. Over 400 million people are born each year of wheat from Ukraine. This has great consequences for the world’s poor. Half of the World Food Programme's purchases of wheat are made from Russia and Ukraine, and prices are now rising sharply. The consequence is poorer access to cereals and flour, and lack of funding means that the World Food Programme now has to cut food feed for highly vulnerable people in Yemen, Ethiopia and Sahel. Numbers from the World Food Programme show that they now have funding out of April, but now they need money to buy food to be distributed from May. The WFP is one of those organisations that got a bit of a cut in the additional proposal from the government, and I urge the government to quickly assess whether there are opportunities to increase humanitarian aid that goes to, among other things. WFP, to remedy this situation. But this also has further consequences. Many countries in the Middle East and North Africa are totally dependent on being able to subsidize flour, so that the population can get cheap bread. If flour is not available, the road may be short to new unrest, conflict, even higher unemployment and potentially new migration flows. Global energy prices are shifting, and security of supply is a major challenge. Several countries and regions remain clearly marked and re-introduced by the pandemic. Now that we are in this perfect storm, we must raise our eyes and analyse what it will mean for the device of Norwegian foreign and security policy in the future. It is obviously very demanding now to predict with certainty what will happen in the future and what consequences it will have for Norway. Nevertheless, I would have liked the Foreign Minister to point out his direction and give priorities. In my opinion, there are in particular three priorities that become important for Norway. Firstly, we must continue to strengthen cooperation with our allies in NATO and close partners outside NATO. We have built our security with allies since 1949, and it only becomes more important when our surroundings become more dangerous. Whatever the outcome of Russia's war in Ukraine, Russia will become more unpredictable and more dangerous. It's not our ability to talk to Russia in the north that gives us our security -- it's the NATO membership that does. Norway has invested significantly in the absolutely necessary process that has been taking place in NATO since 2014 to strengthen and modernise the alliance both politically and militarily. In the same period, we have made huge investments in our own defense to reverse a negative trend. The ability to co-operate, to receive allied reinforcements, collective defence and deterrence must be further strengthened, and it is very important that the government now submit the negotiated defence agreement with the United States to the United States of America. Our deepened and strengthened cooperation with central allies, such as the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France and the Netherlands, is important, as is enhanced defence cooperation with Sweden and Finland. We're going to continue to be a credible ally who goes both north on behalf of NATO, and who stands up for others. Everyone on guard for Norway and NATO at home and outside deserves a special greeting today. The committee had a very interesting trip to Stockholm and Helsinki two weeks ago, and I visited Stockholm again yesterday. Sweden and Finland must choose their path, but it is important to stress that any Swedish and Finnish NATO membership will strengthen Nordic security. If Sweden and Finland decide to join, it can and should do so quickly, both in NATO in the respective parliaments. Secondly, we need to take on board developments in the European Union, and we need to take on board the debate on development. This is about how, in part, major political changes on our own continent affect Norway, and our ability to care for Norwegian interests as best we can. We work closely with the EU because it serves us. In a world that appears less secure and predictable than before, our European and Nordic ties are becoming increasingly important. Developments in the EU are going to be significantly faster, wider and deeper, and EU countries are becoming more integrated. We've seen this through the pandemic, but also before that. And what does that mean for Norway? That means that the consequences of our alienation become clearer. The EU’s capacity and bandwidth to deal with countries that will not be fully involved will be reduced, as the EU’s focus will be to develop the EU for the participating countries and to strengthen the EU’s geopolitical position. This applies in key areas for Norway, such as energy, economy, climate and environment, health and civil protection, to mention something. But it also applies to foreign and defence policy. Although we have our security policy anchoring in NATO, it is a significant challenge that, in particular, safety policies relating to Norway are increasingly being discussed where we are not. On Friday, the EU adopted its strategic compass, strengthening the EU’s role as a foreign and security policy player. As Josep Borell Fontelles said during the adoption: Europe must learn to speak the language of power. It has always been the case that the informal Foreign and Defence Ministerial meetings are the only ones in which Norway and other third countries are not allowed to participate. An increasing number of decisions affecting Norway will be taken where Norway does not sit at the table or has decision-making powers. It is serious, and it should lead to a renewed discussion of the consequences and what we should do about it. In this picture, the government has decided to use time and resources to carry out an investigation to assess the experience of EEA cooperation in the last 10 years and, inter alia, in the last ten years. the experience of neighbouring countries outside the EU has with alternative agreements with the EU – that is, the United Kingdom and Switzerland. Both are outside the internal market, and for Norway, full participation in the internal market is crucial for the economy, jobs and well-being. It should be a paradox to the government that while it is trying to assess the experience of others, the Swiss Parliament has just decided to ask the government to investigate Swiss EEA membership. In short, it is the worst possible geopolitical moment for this government platform and government, which is to unravel ties with the EU and which is asking for closer cooperation with Russia. Thirdly, we must continue to take responsibility for reforming and strengthening the multilateral system that is now under increasing pressure. Our place in the UN Security Council is very important during this period, and Norwegian diplomats throughout the international service do a formidable job of caring for both the system and Norwegian interests in terms of security, trade and rule-based world order, using three examples. Our ability to care for Norwegian interests and our space of foreign policy action has always been defined by our ability to enter into alliances and committed cooperation. Binding international cooperation is more important to us than ever. Of course, any government will try, to the best of its ability, to anticipate and prepare for possible foreign policy scenarios. But its most important task is to build a solid foreign and security policy that can withstand surprising turns and stand over time. It's rarely been more important than now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e418	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very good presentation. It well describes the seriousness of what we are living in: Russia's illegal attack war puts us all on a great test, primarily for how we deal with war in our neighbouring country – that Norway's neighbour has gone to war against another neighbor – what it does with Europe and our security, and how we are going to take care of Ukrainians, both those who are in Ukraine, and the millions who are fleeing. But it also puts us on a big test for how we're going to be able to have attention to multiple crises at the same time. For it is not that other crises disappear by the fact that there is war in Europe – on the contrary; it could reinforce many of the other challenges. So I want to start this article by saying something about the other challenges the world is facing. In Afghanistan, the situation is more serious than for a long time. The return of the Taliban to power has greatly exacerbated the humanitarian situation. Afghanistan is on the brink of collapse in many ways. It was absolutely right and necessary to stop the transfers of funds to Afghanistan as long as the Taliban are those who are de facto in power. But the Afghan people need our support, mostly girls. The Taliban had promised to open the schools for the girls; it lasted only a few hours before they broke the promise and closed the schools. That wasn't very surprising, because the Taliban is by no means a reliable movement. However, it is totally unacceptable, and I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, along with twelve other female foreign ministers, made a clear statement on this matter. Norway still needs to be present for Afghan people. In many of the countries of North Africa and the Middle East, the situation is tense and vulnerable, and worse still. Ukraine is their food vat. We know what food shortages can lead to: hunger, unrest, riots and conflicts. In Syria you go into your twelfth year of civil war, in Lebanon there is economic collapse and economic turmoil. There is no reason for optimism in the Israel–Palestine conflict; there is no negotiating position, and the occupation continues to find new forms. I am pleased that the government has stepped up our cooperation with UNRWA to ensure school and health for Palestinian refugees. The biggest challenge in our time is and remains the climate crisis. And even though it's not at the top of the international agenda right now, we know that this decade will be the most important thing. The climate crisis is about people, because we are people who will be affected if the world cannot act. The climate issue is also about security, and I am pleased that Norway is raising the issue to the UN Security Council, and that more and more people are seeing the link between security and climate. Climate will be a priority for this government in all international forums. So to the war that takes us all. The images from Ukraine are scarce to grasp. Tanks that run into Ukrainian cities, snipers that lie on the street, fathers that send away their wife and children, and families that bury their girlfriends. This happens in Europe in 2022. In many ways it was a notified war, but nevertheless it is as if we do not believe our own eyes. The war in Ukraine has shown Europe at its worst – killing and suffering – but it has also shown Europe at its best: that we are able to stand together when it is most needed. The whole of Europe is united with the Ukrainian people across national borders, across party boundaries. We have to keep doing that, because the most demanding thing is in front of us. This has to meet on a number of fronts. Firstly, we must support Ukraine. We're going to do that politically at every opportunity. We're doing it humanitarianly, because the situation on the ground is going to be very bad. It was good that Norway was one of the first countries to announce funds to Ukraine, and by two billion. First of all, we're among the countries in the world that give the most. And we support Ukraine militarily. There are good reasons why Norway, as a general rule, has never sent weapons to countries that are at war or threatened by war. But the situation in Ukraine is so special and so serious that the Workers' Party thought it was also right to contribute militarily, without creating precedent for other conflicts. Secondly, we must punish Russia. The sanctions against Russia are the most comprehensive ever. They are absolutely essential to show that we do not accept their war. We know that the economic sanctions are going to hit Russia heavily, and that is also the purpose. The purpose is to strangle the economy of the Russian war machine. Norway closes almost all of the sanctions to the EU, and the strength itself is that we do this together. In addition to the EU sanctions, Norway has withdrawn the pension fund from Russia and, like our neighbouring countries, we have closed the airspace. These are very serious measures aimed at a neighbouring country, but they are absolutely necessary in the current situation. Thirdly, we must secure Norway. We have lived at a time when we have always said that here in Norway we are safe. Now we know that our security can never be taken for granted. Our security lies in our NATO membership – that we are part of an alliance that says one for all, all for one. It's good to see the huge upsurge of NATO membership in Norway. The parties that have been opponents of NATO in Norway, I think, first of all, have had theoretical discussions about it. But the world isn't theory, it's reality. Then it's good to see that there are also many voices in SV who want a revision; I hope Red will also do the same. Termination of NATO membership would be both irresponsible and unsolvable. We know little about where the war will go and what it will lead to. But we know that this is going to put us all on a big test, and that we are also going to notice the consequences of the war. Energy policy uncertainty, increased food prices and refugee flows. It's going to be demanding, but we're going to make it. We do it because we meet this together. The war has taught us that no one stands most alone. We are stepping up Nordic cooperation and cooperation on both sides of the Atlantic. We meet this war with the rest of the world. It was an expression of global solidarity when the UN General Assembly in a historic decision – only against the voices of Russia, Belarus, Syria, Eritrea and North Korea – condemned Russia's war. Show me who your friends are, and I'll tell you who you are, was an expression that fit well that day. We have managed to stand together in politics in Norway, so I would like to thank all the parties on the Stortinget for a very good and constructive cooperation. Thank you to the government, the Prime Minister and the foreign minister in the front, who are meeting this very wisely. The greatest thanks go to all those in the front line – the women and men serving for us in Lithuania – and to all those who are ready to contribute, to the relief workers standing on the ground in Ukraine, and to the refugees in neighbouring countries. Let me end by saying that the last time Europe was put on an equal test was when the Soviet Union invaded Czechoslovakia in 1968. Then the Swedish social democrat Olof Palme said: ‘The people’s longing for freedom cannot be suppressed by violence. It will live, and it will finally win." Today we can say the same thing, for freedom will triumph over oppression, peace will win over war, for man is stronger than weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e443	It's breaking time in Europe. Russia is waging a brutal war against Ukraine, and the lack of respect for the international right of war is overwhelming. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good and reflected statement, which reflected mainly on the situation in Ukraine today, because that is what overshadows everything else. Then it's really not about what everyone around is contributing, but actually the situation inside Ukraine: a people fighting, a people fighting for life and for their independence. The suffering of the Ukrainian people is almost incomprehensible, and the Russian attack is an attack on democracy and our values. This also affects our national security. It could be said that these trends were already seen in 2008, already in 2014, but only a few days before the invasion, they were perhaps the most enlightened, those who have followed this almost, very uncertain about what was going to happen. What does that mean? That means we have to have a readiness for the worst case. That's a lesson we have to take with us. In 1949, our politicians came to the conclusion that Norway needed organized cooperation with other countries to ensure its independence. The Second World War had made Norway’s vulnerable strategic position visible, and the Atlantic Pact provided a whole new basis for Norwegian security policy. With this Norway confirmed that we could not stand indifferent to the ideological struggle between democracy and totalitarian rule. In addition, we understood that a small country, with a vulnerable and, in the view of many, strategic location on the map, could not secure its inhabitants by standing alone. It is also important to remember that since 1949 Norway has been a good partner of alliances. We've been supporting all of the Article 5 operations that NATO has undertaken. In the light of Russia's military attacks on Ukraine, we are facing a paradigm shift in Europe, and we must take on board the security policy dimension linked to Russia's actions. We must now go through our own defence capacity critically and coordinate closely with our partners and not least our allies. Our membership in NATO is undoubtedly the cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy, it has been for 70 years. The cooperation with our NATO allies is the foundation of our military security. Our maritime and air defence, along with intelligence, cyber defence and land defence, enables us to carry out the important tasks of the defence alliance that our geographical location gives us. We must clearly establish that Norway is NATO in the north. We can do this by taking even greater ownership of our capabilities and capabilities and providing an up-to-date understanding of the situation in the north to the national authorities and NATO. This is more important than ever. In order to ensure freedom, security, predictability and stability in our part of the world, it is very important that Norway train with our allies and partner countries. The ongoing exercise Cold Response shows how important it is to have arenas to congregate, and then we're talking about congreating all the way down at the individual level. It's about getting acquainted with the ones you might have to fight with. It is important to share experiences, effectively identify vulnerabilities, not only related to Norwegian defence capabilities, but also the ability of our allies to operate under demanding Norwegian winter conditions. These types of exercises also provide overall defence challenges that test preparedness and the ability to solve some complex logistics challenges. Our infrastructure is also being exposed and tested. Norway must have a self-balanced defence with its own capacities on land, in air, at sea and in the digital space. In the Central Party, we have also been concerned about having a national defence that is present throughout the country – to a large extent those who contribute to this today. The importance of motivated soldiers with local knowledge has shown us the importance of the war in Ukraine in a brutal way. The government has quickly proposed powerful action by strengthening its defence capabilities. This is essential in today's situation to ensure Norway's defence capacity in crisis and war and to strengthen its military and civil preparedness. We simply have to tune up the organisation we have. At the same time, Norwegian security policy is also served by having more legs on it. We have a long experience of foreign policy cooperation with many countries, and we will continue to do so while increasing Norway's overall defence capacity by strengthening and further developing our own national defence. Then we want stronger Nordic and security cooperation, but it must be quite clear that security and security policy must be developed through NATO, an organisation that is naturally created to deal with such challenges – unlike the EU, which has a completely different and broader spectrum to deal with at all times. The war has led to the greatest flow of refugees in Europe since World War II, and Norway is ready to accept those who now need us hurt. The Government has decided to provide temporary collective protection to Ukrainian citizens. This means that Ukrainians on the run get help faster. These are people who come to us with heavy baggage, very heavy baggage – and something that has happened close in time. We must meet these people with respect and solidarity, and we must show solidarity and fellowship across languages, culture and territorial borders. Norway is better equipped to accept refugees today than we were in 2015. Municipalities play a very important role here. I have to say that I am grateful for the effort that is being put down, and that we now see in everyday life. At the same time, we in the Center Party are concerned that those who come to us should be quickly integrated into Norwegian society. We are to provide in government an effective monitoring of educational and professional backgrounds, so that those who come can quickly become part of a community, whether in work, school or kindergarten. There is nothing that cultivates the community better than to be with others and do things together. So far, Norway has put off 2 billion. kr in additional humanitarian aid to Ukraine and neighbouring countries, which every day make an important effort to respond to Ukrainian refugees. Of these, about 1 billion. kr distributed – as I see it. Norway’s assistance has been rapid, flexible, giving ground-based organisations room for manoeuvre to manage the funds so that the assistance comes where the need is greatest. These are demanding operations. These are basically operations to ensure that aid is found in a country that is so unpredictable and where – hour by hour – you do not know what is going on. Getting the funds down on the ground as quickly as possible and trying to get this coordinated is an operation in itself. It requires good planning. The measures taken by the government are very important. We have sent pan-server missiles, military protective equipment, to assist the Ukrainians who bravely fight against Russia. Norway has also joined the comprehensive EU sanctions package and has also frozen all State pension funds abroad in Russia and started to sell us out. This is an important and symbolic action that must be done thoroughly and over time. The government has thus taken important, but also difficult, measures that have sometimes broken with former Norwegian security policy lines. Together, we have shown the ability to adapt to a demanding situation: mobilising, supporting, showing care and being united in a crisis that will shape the security policy image and policy in Norway and Europe in the future. Now we also have to look at what challenges and opportunities we have ahead of us, and how we're going to align ourselves with what's happening now, and which is most likely to appear to be a paradigm shift – as we've said before. NATO's adaptations to a new threat picture, the new task of the alliance after the end of the Cold War, were crucial for the conversion of the Norwegian defence. Since then, collective defence, pre-storage of allied material and co-treatment have strengthened Norwegian security and defence policy. We have to keep doing this. In addition, the government has now launched a package of measures, a strong contribution to strengthening defence capabilities in the short term. In the long term, the government’s strengthening of the defence’s long-term plan will be very central. In addition, the Government has launched a Defence Commission to make recommendations on the long-term impact of a modified security policy image, and a comprehensive preparedness Commission such as: assesses the fundamental challenges related to threats such as cyber and energy security, which are a much broader threat than just what will cover defence. This will certainly be put on the track, new leads that will lead to an even greater defence that will provide rapid response capabilities, such as today, but also to a greater extent toughness, endurance and everything in it. Here, we need to exploit all opportunities and also be willing to find new solutions that make better use of the motivated protective mass. Our political priorities must also be seen in the context of the overall security policy dimension. Now our focus has to a large extent been on Ukraine, but we must not forget the other crises, which also require our attention. Refugee crises, warriors and humanitarian distress exist on all continents. During the pandemic, these crises were reinforced, and we are facing an acute climate crisis. The impact of climate change on nature is greater and wider than previously assumed. Good social security and preparedness require interaction, coordination, between response actors and long-term thinking, also in terms of food security both at home and abroad. Russia and Ukraine are responsible for 30 pst. of world cereal exports. As a result of the war in Ukraine, global food prices are expected to increase further in the future. On Friday, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, published updated figures and analyses on the food safety situation as a result of the conflict. Thus, with the cessation of exports of cereals and other agricultural products from Russia and Ukraine, sanctions against Russia and incipient restrictions on cereal exports from other countries, the FAO has adjusted its estimate to the number of people who will be affected by the global food crisis and malnutrition. Clearly, the war has resulted in a massive and steadily worsening food security challenge. It has already significantly disrupted the livelihood of agriculture during the growing season through physical additional restrictions, home damage, productive assets and agricultural land. The war has led to the farmer not at work, the farmer is out and fighting for his country. This has led to increased import needs, leading to challenges both in the Middle East and in East Africa. In countries like Afghanistan and Yemen, the war is already strengthening the current crises. Food is the basis for work, education and health. Food is the basis of a good life. That is why it is particularly important right now that we also prioritise the food sector in this country. Food preparedness requires a great deal of self-sufficiency and emergency storage. To ensure this, we need an up-to-date and sustainable agriculture. We need to make sure that we have farmers who want to continue and who want to bet. The time has come to do it right now. Finally, while Norway has a long tradition of supporting EU sanctions, it is absolutely essential that we are also free to make our own assessments in this regard, including with regard to our relationship with Russia. Now I have described a situation that of course indicates that our relationship with Russia has changed completely – if we only look back a few months. Nevertheless, it is important that we as a nation should be able to make our own decisions. Norway takes over the staff stick in the Arctic Council, the council that started as a research project after the cold war. The most important cooperation has now stopped, for the first time in the forum's 25-year history, this job has stopped. Nevertheless, cooperation has brought about important issues, matters which are also important today, and which are on the lookout, rescue, oil protection and coastguard cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e475	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good account. I like the way she presents different issues. In a stable foreign policy neighbourhood, it is not used to the fact that ‘facts on the ground’ change from week to week, and that a debate one week after the presentation is in fact recent. I could have spent my time talking about everything that the Progress Party disagrees with the government in, whether it's about refugee policy, about climate hysteria or what's defined as Africa policy – which I didn't know was a policy of my own, but that's what was said – whether it's about Taliban negotiations, or about the Middle East where the status of refugees is inherited, we've now come to the third generation. But I'm not going to spend my time on that. I'm going to spend all my assigned 10 minutes on Russia's war in Ukraine and on facts, status and dilemmas. Russia has established itself as an uncertain actor in its own paranoid world. Many have believed that this applies only to Russia's president and his government based on fear. I think it's far deeper. Russia has moved away from the indoctrinate and imagined classless society to an equally indoctrinate society based on nationalism that cannot survive without real or imagined internal and external enemies. In both communities, monitoring is included as a pillar, in both cases a hierarchical social structure with closed structures where friendship, knowledge, fear and economical friend services are carriers. Then democracy becomes the enemy and NATO the tool to spread this. In such a perspective, NATO is not a defence alliance, but an expansive alliance with the aim of involving all countries in a social structure that violates Russia's culture and history. Liberal values of freedom are not a good thing, but an overly decadent exposure of weakness, where masculinity drowns in destructive variants of feminism. It's now over a month since the unimaginable happened. An independent country in Europe was brutally attacked by its neighbouring country. Death rates are rising, suffering is increasing. The shocking lack of respect for life of Russian leadership, including the lives of its own soldiers, becomes clearer every day that goes. There are many who have been naive to Russia's ambitions and intentions, and let me add to Russia's world view. It may seem that Russia is adjusting its targets from invading the entire country to taking control of the eastern parts. Many believe that Russia wants to divide Ukraine into two by model of North and South Korea – a division both geographically and ideologically. Such a situation will create a whole new Europe. I can also add that an Ukraine without access to the Black Sea will be a completely impossible situation for Ukraine – then Russia will also have control of exports out of Ukraine. It'll be an impossible situation. The Ukrainian government also seems to want to accept concessions. There is talk of neutrality and a compromise on Donbas. Ukraine is in an impossible situation. Leadership must balance saving lives and shorten suffering in the short term and yield to Putin’s extortion by refraining from land. It could happen. In an interview with The Economist President Zelenskyj said: Victory is to be able to save as many as possible because without this nothing will matter. And on the other hand, our country is important, yes, but after all, it's only territory. Saving everyone and defending all interests while protecting the people and not giving up land is probably an impossible task, says Zelenskyj in the same interview. Hopefully we'll hear more about this in President Zelenskyj's speech to the Stortinget tomorrow. There is other respect for the Ukrainians and that they follow the President's advice when he asks all men between the ages of 18 and 60 to remain and fight. It bears witness to great love for one’s own country and great love for one’s own people by encouraging women and children to seek security. It's not just Ukrainian life in the pot. We are at risk of crop failure and potential famine in many countries as a result of Ukraine being one of the largest food producers and not being sown this year. Ukraine exports large quantities of basic products such as sunflower oil, wheat, maize, barley and rape seed. Animal food can lead to unrest and dissatisfaction in land and areas already experiencing major problems. The war will eventually have a diplomatic solution, it is certain. As long as Russia cannot eliminate Ukraine, it will have to sit down at the table. If that doesn't happen, the war will go on forever. There is nothing today that suggests that Ukraine will surrender, rather on the contrary. The results of the war have so far given the Ukrainians renewed strength and motivation. If Ukraine and Russia agree on a negotiated solution and agreement, we must all deal with it. It's their war, their people and their future. It is the Ukrainian people who have to bear the consequences of an agreement or the absence of it, but we are nevertheless part of it – mainly because Ukraine's relationship with Russia will have ring-fences across Europe, but also because Russia is a neighbouring country. Our relationship with Russia is conditioned by the situation Russia has to the West. We are also part of this conflict by means of penalties. Then the question is what will happen to the many sanctions that have been imposed. Are they introduced due to Russia’s attack on Ukraine? Are they expanded because of the atrocities of war and Putin's possible war crimes? Or are they put in the background of Putin's dictatorial system? Or is it a combination of all three? No matter how unisonally correct, intelligible and of course the many sanctions have been imposed, a conversation must be held at the same time with the consent of which conditions would be imposed if they were ever to be lifted. Of course, we're not there now, but we have to reflect on what's going to happen in order for us to be there once. If Ukraine recognises Russian sovereignty over, for example: Cram and parts of eastern Ukraine, will we do the same? What will the West do if the Ukrainian President, through agreement with Russia, calls for normalisation? It is very uncomfortable and possibly completely unacceptable to grant Putin concessions after a brutal Great War that he himself started. It sends out signals that power use pays off. In that case, the Western relationship with Ukraine remains. What will Ukraine's reaction be if Ukraine, which has suffered a war assault, accepts Putin by power, while the rest of the democratic world says no? Norway cannot go alone, it is important that we stand with our allies. In a world that seems more divided than ever, it's important that we share important values together. Putin wants to split and rule. We mustn't give him a reason for that. There is little doubt that Putin miscalculated the cohesion of the Western world and our ability to react quickly. It is important that the West join forces to agree on a unified sanctions policy. We must continue to support Ukraine, even if NATO membership seems inappropriate in the foreseeable future. The Ukrainians have shown that they are one of us – that they love freedom, that they will determine their own lives and their own country and that they refuse dictatorships to ruin their future. I want to underline what I said in my speech, that I hope there are conversations going on, whether it is with NATO allies, whether it is in the EU, in Europe or elsewhere, about how to get out of this conflict – not just through negotiations in Turkey on peace or compromise, because we are all part of the war now through the sanctions we have. The sanctions are comprehensive and eventually Russia will also deal with the sanctions and create its own way of avoiding the sanctions, or creating its own small world in its own little bubble. How do you get back to a normalized world if it's just that Russia is losing on the ground, which may be unlikely, but that you make a compromise based on something that Putin finally accepts after pressure, and that Zelenskyy accepts because he wants to protect Ukrainian life? What then? I think that's a very important question that I hope you can discuss, rather than just condemn in every direction. Because it's going to be a different world one day and then we have to deal with it on Ukraine's premises, or maybe on our own premises, but then we also have to expect the consequences it will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e507	The war on Ukraine is a brutal attack on an independent state. The war is about the small state against the power of power, international law against lawlessness, democracy against dictatorship. We all stand together with the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people to Putin's war. In the middle of the wretched war there is also something good, and it can open up positive possibilities. For today, a united political Norway is not just against war and for solidarity with refugees; we are also united in the defence of the prohibition of international law against the war of aggression. My hope is that this can set a new standard internationally, for a more consistent defence of international law regardless of who breaks these vital rules that defend the sovereignty of the small states and the right to determine their own future. This is going to be particularly important in a time of increasing major activism. The war has also shown us the need for a stronger peace movement in Norway and internationally, and in Norway, unfortunately, under the previous government, there has been a contradiction, among other things. because the peace organisations have not received financial support. This sub-financing must end. SV looks forward to working with the government to increase the benefit to the many volunteers who just want to contribute to the popular mobilisation for peace and against war. The war in Ukraine has underlined the need for a stronger fight against nuclear weapons. Norway should therefore support the UN forbidden treaty, thereby delegating all use of nuclear weapons and putting pressure on nuclear disarmament. SV is a peace party and a defence-friendly party, and this is related. Instead of weakening the national defence and setting up the defence to participate in warfare abroad, SV will strengthen the defence's ability to assert sovereignty and monitor our marine areas, and strengthen the collective defence capability, defence and preparedness in this country, against a wide range of threats. We are therefore looking forward to the government's warning to strengthen national defence and defence. In the forthcoming debate, we must also bear in mind that preparedness is more than military defence. There is also civil and voluntary preparedness, and it must mean increasing Norwegian food production and having larger stocks of both food, medicine and other necessary equipment, for different emergencies. The war in Ukraine also has a lack of coverage in our ability to strike those responsible for war. The strict sanctions against the Russian elite that Putin relies on are necessary to press Putin to end the war. But for many years, there has not been enough will to fight financial secrecy and tax havens, which are just making it possible for the Russian oligarchs to hide their wealth, built on the edge of the Russian population – but also possible for the rest of the world's criminals and also large corporations who want to keep their income away from taxation and redistribution. I hope that we can now stand together to fight tax havens and secretiveness much more effectively internationally. As many people have been in, let's not forget the rest of the world. The war in Ukraine demands that we face the world with more solidarity, not that we move our solidarity. The war is intensifying and coming to the top of other crises. We have already seen huge sulphur disasters in Afghanistan and Yemen, and the lack of food and higher food prices will be able to trigger social and political unrest, among other things. Middle East and other parts of the world. Assistance is not the only answer to these crises. But in such a situation it would be dangerous and, in my opinion, unacceptable to make the rest of the world poor and persecuted pay for our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We look forward to the government proposing to increase the aid budget, just to avoid the reception of refugees going beyond our solidarity with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e526	In its presentation to the Atlantic Pact, which Stortinget ratified in 1949, the Council of State pointed out. I want to draw up another pact, which we signed four years earlier: the UN Pact. The UN Pact strengthened international law and laid the foundations for a rule-driven world order. For small countries, such as Norway, this is not just a moral obligation; it is also a first-line defence against the war of aggression. Russia's attack is shocking – the enormous suffering and a regime that violates all the principles of international law about self-government and invades a neighbouring country. In my party, we call it imperialism. Repatriation of respect for international law is essential for the security of Norway and other small countries. If Norway is to become a strong driver for this, we must show ourselves as the fundamental defenders of international law. Norway must then stop printing authoritarian leaders, like Putin, into hand to gain access to their oil and gas, and stop promising not to offend China, such as the predecessor of the Council of State, Børge Burnde, did in 2014. In line with our interests, I expect a greater diplomatic pressure on any state that is above internationally recognised principles. In addition, we need to recognise that Norway and NATO have contributed to undermining international law. In 2011, Norway and 15 other NATO countries misused a UN mandate to protect civilians in Libya to carry out a bombing war for regime change. Such undermining by the UN cannot afford Norway. So to the second-line defense against attack war: the big guy made a visit in his statement and referred to a bill that doesn't go up if Norway isn't going to be a member of NATO. But the bill has a different and very important part: how long can we defend the country with an army of 10,000 soldiers? If we're to believe the land estate, Norway has an army that can only defend a medium-sized municipality, a home protection without real fighting power and no effective air protection. When we see this, 10,000 soldiers who can defend one municipality, but have to defend the whole country – and that for 30 days, before NATO comes – we see a bill that doesn't go up. Red has long called for repatriation of the country's defence capabilities, even when this was defecated in this hall. In the future, we will follow up on the fact that the defence will not only be adjusted, with some money here and there, but that it will be repatriated. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned the 70-year principles of Norwegian basic policy: no foreign bases on Norwegian soil in peacetime. The Foreign Minister says that these self-selected restrictions do not weaken our security, they strengthen it. Here is a broad consensus in Stortinget. That is why, in our view, it is unfortunate that the Foreign Minister is undermining the content of the supplementary agreement on defence cooperation with the United States. For us, this seems to be just an agreement on foreign bases on Norwegian soil. The agreement provides unhindered access to and use of agreed areas by US forces to accommodate personnel, set up forces and stockpiles of weapons and materials. Here, US forces can disregard Norwegian laws and regulations and refuse Norwegian authorities transparency. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs guarantee that the agreement does not open up US troops on Norwegian soil, even without exercises or a war situation? Just this was one of the conditions that Norway set to participate in NATO at all in its time. The war against Ukraine is brutal, it strikes civilians and creates enormous destruction and suffering. We stand united in condemning this attack on a neighboring country. If something is to come out of this war in the case of Norwegian politics, which may point forward, it must be the following: that we are gathered to condemn all violations of international law, that we repatriate the country's defence capabilities and stand up for our own sovereignty against all major powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e543	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for coming to the Stortingen last week and giving her presentation. It is a great strength for liberal democracy that the government prioritizes a good and close relationship with the Stortinget, and on the biggest and most demanding issues facing us as a country, cooperation between opposition and position is absolutely necessary. Cooperation does not mean that neither position nor opposition should abdicate from their positions, but that we should listen to each other and enter into discussions with an open mind. Ever since the government's decision to deliver arms to Ukraine and freeze the investment of the oil fund in Russia, I feel that the government, and especially the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has taken an open and listening attitude to all the proposals that come from the Storting, and that is being appreciated. It is not difficult to agree with most of the Council's foreign policy analysis, as it was presented at the Stockholm Chair last week. It was wise, it was nuanced, and it was also anchored in a Norwegian foreign policy tradition that goes back several decades in time, and that the Council of State chose to quote a Prime Minister from the Left, is something she can of course get praise for from me. But the analysis that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made has some consequences for Norway's choices in the world, and it may be on that point that I would have liked to hear more from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right to describe the overall impact this war has had on both NATO and the EU – it has really helped bring together the Member States – and when she stresses that in the future we will see a more integrated European project, where Norway must then try to influence from the outside. And it is not certain that if the EU is more integrated, this impact job will be easier. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not do, but, as her colleague in the Central Government of the Labour Party, Raymond Johansen, did in the evening post, was to point to what should be the obvious consequence of the analysis by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely to recognise that a new Norwegian EU debate is as necessary as it is unavoidable. If Raymond Johansen had been sitting on Stortinget, I would ask him to join me in the proposal I made on 17 March that Norway should participate in the EU's foreign and security policy. Fortunately, I have noticed that Johansen has benefited from the support of other employees' representatives, so there is still hope for some votes from the Workers' Party when this matter is to be dealt with here at Stortinget. But it is not just here in Norway that the social democrats are now calling for a new EU debate. In Denmark, a government led by the Minister for Foreign Affairs’ sister party, the Social Democracy, has taken the consequences of the road divorce mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and has asked for a referendum on Denmark’s participation in the EU’s common security and foreign policy. Whether it is a matter of sanctions against Russia or aid to Ukraine, the EU has shown leadership, and for Norway, what is decided in Brussels has been decisive. We have followed the EU as far as possible in the chain of sanctions, and the government is constantly assessing how and whether we are going to participate in the pan-European support fund for Ukraine through the European Peace Facility. This shows both how dependent we are on what is happening in the EU, and also how much it would have meant to be on the inside designing decisions, rather than waiting for them afterwards. The Europe we are facing today is not the same as Europe and the European Union in 1994, and at least not in 1972. In 1994, the EU was an environmental sink. They now lead not only in the field of the environment but also in trade policy, mobility and even in security and foreign policy – not as an alternative to NATO, but as a close partner to NATO. The government announced in the Hurdals platform that alternatives to the EEA Agreement should be explored, and one of the options is, among other things, Switzerland's free trade agreement with the EU. This agreement works so badly that the EU and Switzerland have been at war with each other in the last decade, and that the Swiss themselves have now decided to explore alternatives to their own agreement, and the best option other than EU membership, it is called the EEA Agreement. This is what our Green-liberal party traps in Switzerland have been given a majority for. I would like to know if the government's investigation of alternatives to the EEA is affected by the fact that the Swiss Parliament has now asked its government to investigate the alternative to their relationship with the EU. I will also present another challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There are many parties, and there are many representatives and many politicians who are now calling for a new EU debate in view of the situation in Ukraine. The Government has launched an investigation of alternatives to the EEA Agreement. The mandate for this investigation can easily be changed without a single decision in the Grand Duchy, and it will provide the basis for a debate that many of us are calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e566	I can't stand another war, my mother said to me three weeks ago. When she was little, she had to run to the bombing rooms from Nazi bombs that smashed London, and go home again between ruins and dead people. There are many people living in Norway, from many countries, who know how people in Ukraine are doing today. Vladimir Putin's war crimes against Ukraine will remain in history as mass murder. Putin’s inhumane behaviour can tear down what is built up in Europe over many decades of peace and cooperation, and our most important task is to prevent it from happening and strengthen European cooperation — not undermine it. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good presentation. The Greens generally believe that the government has managed the Ukraine crisis in a good way. We support the difficult decision to send weapons and are open to participate in further discussions on that problem. We share the government's view of NATO as the cornerstone of European defence policy. The Green Party has recently met with Green party leaders from many countries in Europe. There is particularly deep frustration over an energy policy such as — among others. in Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, etc. – has made Europe too dependent on energy from Russia. A stop in gas imports from Russia can now have very serious consequences for both Germany and other countries. It shows how important an energy transition that liberates is for peace and freedom. Bad climate policy is therefore a bad security policy, and we must now note that in Norway when discussing our future energy policy. As a green party, we will stand together with every country that fights for freedom. What the Ukraine crisis now reminds us of is that similar terrible events happen also in Myanmar, Syria, Afghanistan and Ethiopia and require equal solidarity and equally important support. All victims of war and detention must be supported, and that is Norway's role in international security cooperation. Also at home we're going to do ours. We need a well-functioning defense. The Greens are open to the necessary strengthening and review of defence, but the progress and problems of the Russians in Ukraine do not necessarily imply that military upgrading is the right answer to the developments we are now facing. I am pleased with the government's decision to provide collective protection for Ukrainian refugees. These are people to be well received. It is obvious that the whole of Norway and all Norwegian municipalities are ready to do so, but it is also obvious that we have significant challenges in providing Ukrainians with the reception they are going to have. It's too bad. It's too bad. There are practical difficulties, which show us that our attitude towards people who come here on the run has been quite reprehensible, and it is revealed when people we perceive almost as our relatives, meet the same conditions. These are also people with very large resources, who may contribute to their own integration and residence in Norway in ways that we have not been used to thinking about before and that we need to exploit. Norway follows most EU sanctions against Russia. That is good, but we still have Russian trawlers who get fishing in Norwegian waters and deliver fish to Norway in a way that may differ from the way other countries deal with trade cooperation with Russia. And I have asked the Minister for Fisheries to explain how this might be followed up. The Green Party is proposing to set up a solidarity fund on the basis of the huge revenue that it is considered will be obtained from gas sales. There will be reconstruction and humanitarian cooperation in Ukraine and is an example of international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e587	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. It describes very well how Russia's invasion and brutal warfare in Ukraine changed the security policy situation in Europe. The war also affects the framework of Norwegian foreign and security policy and increases the need for humanitarian and development cooperation. The report of the increasingly brutal warfare in Ukraine is heartbreaking. In the port town of Mariupol, which has been under siege for several weeks, we now see that dead children are placed in mass graves. It is soon empty for food, and the roads out of town are mined. The Russian forces claim that they do not attack civilians, but the doctors who work there say they treat ten civilians for each soldier. President Zelensky describes the siege of the city as a kind of terror that will go into history as a war crime, and there is little doubt that he is right in it. Putin's war of aggression against his neighboring country is creating a more uncertain time in Europe. It requires Norway to strengthen both its capacity and its stamina in our defence. The priority must be given to home security, cyber defence and the northernmost parts of the country — not least the anchoring of NATO is more important than ever. Nearly 4 million Ukrainians have fled across the border to neighbouring countries. Over half of the country's 7.5 million children are displaced from their homes. Poland and other neighbouring countries are doing a fantastic job to help as many as possible, and non-governmental organisations have taken the lead in mobilising Europe for action. Norway, as a rich country, must continue to take responsibility. Yes, we should also take greater priority, take initiatives to help orphan children in institutions, to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings and criminal groups operating in border areas, to have a common European responsibilities for refugees and to secure humanitarian aid, medicines, food and shelter. Norway should continue to set up. Yes, we should increase our contribution to Ukraine. We have the opportunity to do so at a time when Norway is receiving huge extra revenue from the oil and gas sector, but it cannot be the world's poorest and most vulnerable to pay for Norway's solidarity with Ukraine. The government cannot afford to use the aid budget as a balancing item to cover refugee expenditure at home and humanitarian aid to Ukraine. Only refugee spending alone can quickly capture a quarter of the aid budget. This is just not possible, because the war in Ukraine also has quite extreme consequences for poor countries – not least the war affects the world's food production. We are facing a massive increase in hunger and malnutrition. The world's food programme, as we have heard earlier in the debate, reports that prices are on the rise. They have to pay 620 million. kr more each month. The money doesn't go the same way, and at the same time, we see that the food needs are increasing dramatically. So on top of that, it's announced that rich countries are cutting in support because of the war in Ukraine. So it builds up to another disaster. This is in addition to the fact that many countries are now fighting to get on their legs after covid. So that the foreign minister almost did not mention the pandemic is a weakness in the presentation, because large parts of the world are still in the midst of the crisis. Millions of cities in Asia are once again totally shut down, and millions of children have fallen out of school and many have not returned. We have seen an increase in violence against women and children's marriages, while food production and health systems are down. A bloody injustice in the distribution of vaccines, tests and anti-pandemic equipment is also an important reason for the situation. And this bias and the lack of solidarity have also created distrust and lack of trust between the north and the south that is devastating. So if Norway and other rich countries now choose to withdraw the aid and step down the commitment, it will be a betrayal. The Minister for Foreign Affairs announced a review of the organisation of the EEAS, and this is good and necessary in a time of change. However, I would warn against taking action that would weaken Norway’s position, interest and ability to contribute in the long term. The Minister is aware that the major powers are increasingly looking at Africa. China has been doing this for years, and Russia has also increased its presence in recent years. So does the United States. Norway has a lot of experience, expertise and insight about a number of sub-Saharan Africa countries. Norwegian involvement and several decades of multi-level cooperation, has given us a unique position, voice and influence. It's not to be squandered. It must be strengthened and built on. Fortunately, we see some glimpses of hope. I'll finish there, President. We see it in those who are fighting for their country, their freedom, the right to self-determination and for fundamental European values, the hope of those who take to the streets in Moscow and in St. Petersburg demanding that the war be stopped, with the volunteers, with the auxiliary workers. Now we have to stand together in the free world – not split up to give up, but ability to stand together and stand up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e611	This debate shows that there is a cross-political consensus in the United Kingdom on Russia's invasion and aggressive warfare in Ukraine and that it marks a turning point for Europe. At the same time, it is important to stress that it is precisely for Europe that this is perceived as a turning point. In other parts of the world, we have seen wars, civil wars and events in recent years that have led to extreme humanitarian distress and great refugee flows. The war in Ukraine seems to be able to intensify some of these conflicts and help trigger new conflicts, not least because of food shortages. In the last year, wheat prices have increased by 69 pst. It is not only the result of the war in Ukraine, but it reinforces this crisis. The price of barley has increased by 82 pst. We also see increased prices of other food, on fertilizers, on energy – the list is long. Those who are hardest hit by this are the ones who already have the least. Large price increases in food and energy often result in political instability. It's been ten years since the Arab Spring. At the time, we were very optimistic, but it was triggered by just increasing food prices. Countries in the Middle East, North Africa and Asia are heavily dependent on imported cereals from Russia and Ukraine; some of these will be exposed. We already have ongoing disasters in Afghanistan, Yemen, Somalia, Syria and Sahel. Further collapse in these countries will cost the international community dearly and will strengthen an already historically high flow of refugees. We must not forget these conflicts, and therefore it is so important that this government has committed itself to giving increasing priority to food security. Just now, the World Food Fund will also be strengthened by what we transfer to Afghanistan and Ukraine in addition to what is signalled in the budget. At the same time, I said in my statement that we need to make clear foreign policy priorities in the situation we are facing. I agree with the three main elements highlighted here by the Committee's chairman: cooperation with NATO, cooperation with the EU and multilateral cooperation. To take NATO first, what I think is fundamental to understanding for those parties that are not supporters of NATO membership, is that NATO is based on something that is known to me from the left – solidarity. If you're going to have others to stand up for, you also have to stand up for others. It means that when we have soldiers in Lithuania, it is about solidarity. In NATO we know that we can't just expect them to come to us in case the worst happens. With regard to the EEA and the EU, we are increasingly dependent on – and contribute to – foreign policy talks with the EU, and we have joined the sanctions. But it is not right, as Melby says, that this investigation – which we will soon be presenting – should investigate alternatives to the EU. That's not true. The study shall focus on experience over the last 10 years. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to recognise the important job of the Parliamentary Delegations through various parliamentary assemblies. To the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, NATO, the Council of Europe, the Conference of Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation, the Asia-Europe Parliamentary Partnership, the ASEAN Interparliamentary Assembly and the EFTA and EEA Parliamentary Committees. This work has been marked by pandemics in the last year, both in terms of implementation and content. The war in Ukraine, including the consequences for contact with and participation from Russia, will largely affect the future of many of these committees. In the troubled times we're going through, it's particularly important that we have a work that contributes in different ways, and here the Storting has a long tradition. There are many reasons why I want to emphasise close and close contact with the Storting on foreign policy issues in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e625	The Foreign Minister is speaking, quite correctly, about what is now happening, as a turning point for Europe. The government has talked several times about this investigation that was to come in the New Year, and it wants more knowledge. It is in many ways a little striking, in line with the debates we have had in this Chamber in the past, that all possible forms of association with the EU should be assessed, except for the one chosen by most countries, including our neighbouring countries, namely full EU membership. My question is: Will the government allow the investigation to assess the impact of EU membership on Norway, or is there a type of knowledge that the government does not want?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e634	I expect that in the light of this crisis too, we will have an expanded Europe discussion for Norway. I have not invited it in connection with this statement, but I expect it to come. Then everyone is free to make different assessments of it, and I think that's an open discussion that probably many will participate in. But this investigation is about the experience we have with EEA membership, the scope for action and the consequences of this, not least in the field of working life. We've freshened up a Nav scandal, which emphasized very carefully that there is a need for thorough investigations in this area. That's what this investigation is about. Then there will probably be many discussions about EU membership, and they will be able to do so freely, completely independently of this investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e639	They will, and they will, but the point here is that the government must take a lead in this debate and this discussion. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is constantly pointing to the value of an overall Europe in the handling of Russia. I totally agree with that, and I think it's been very important so far, and it's going to be important in the future. The question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned about the signal effect Norway is now sending through this investigation, about an investigation into a possible looser relationship with the EU. I have also asked in the past whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs can guarantee that the premise that Norway will be part of the internal market is firm. This has not been confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does she also agree that the signal effect we are now sending may be different if we include EU membership as an alternative in this investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e650	As regards the internal market and the four freedoms, it is established. It is part of the EEA Agreement. It's not that we can opt out of one of the four freedoms. I have not experienced any negative signals from any EU country in this investigation. On the contrary, EU countries stress that they recognise that Norway wants to be more closely coordinated with the EU in several areas. We do that with regard to the response to the war in Ukraine. We are increasingly doing this with regard to Norwegian China policy. So the signals we're sending out, at least I haven't experienced any negative reactions from any EU country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e655	There were no warnings when the government started negotiations with the Taliban two months ago. It was euphoria, it was private aircraft, and there was no way how great this was going to be. So it went two months, and it wasn't like you thought it would be, or like you said. State Secretary Thune stated that there were five firm, clear points of agreement. It didn't happen. Today, women are not allowed to go to school, and they cannot move outside freely. But to ask the question that is really interesting to get an answer to: Has the international community and Norway dealt with the agreement on Taliban freedom? Who is now financing the Taliban’s operations and their flight around the Middle East and elsewhere? Is it also the international community? Are there gold reserves abroad, or are there funds that are no longer frozen in the United States? How does the Taliban get the money now? Maybe that's why they met on Soria Moria, just to get that money and live the way they did before we got to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e662	If the representative heard my description of the Taliban when they were here, it wasn't exactly marked by euphoria. I said on the contrary that we must be completely realistic, for one thing is what they say at meetings in Oslo. We're not going to measure them by what they're saying here, but by what they're actually doing. Now they haven't done this with the girls' schooling, even though they said it was their intention. What's important to me then is that we don't fund schools just for boys. Norway does not contribute to the financing of such a discriminatory school system. That is why, together with a group of other female foreign ministers, I have clearly distanced myself from the decision taken by the Taliban. We will now, in cooperation with the other Western countries that were in Oslo, plan how we should respond collectively to this crazy decision. I have to say, I think it's a pleasure to fund school if it's just for boys. I believe that such a discriminatory school system should also be abandoned by other donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e667	This just doesn't last. They've been given these warnings a long time ago. This shows that the Minister of Foreign Affairs prided himself on the Taliban. You don't invite the Taliban here if you don't trust them. Then they might as well be where they stick. They were invited here to agree on five points, and five points were agreed, according to State Secretary Thune. Then school for girls was one of these -- assuming that then the Taliban would also get some benefits from it. Among other things, government employees would be paid their wages from some mysterious place, which of course is also partially channelled to the Taliban, even if it stated in the agreement that it would not be. The Taliban has been given money to run their administration somewhere. When the Foreign Minister says we're not going to be part of it and finance it, someone else is probably funding it. It comes from Western funds somewhere. Since you stand together, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, you agree on this, while a few of the countries that stand together finance the Taliban's administration and expenditure. It's okay to be absolutely clear on that. Where does this money come from? I suppose the Foreign Minister knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e678	I don't know how the Taliban gets all their money. What's important to us is to be with the rest of the international community. Despite the international situation, we were able to obtain a joint opinion from the UN Security Council on the mandate for UN engagement in Afghanistan. I think that is important, because we all have an interest in preventing a humanitarian collapse in Afghanistan, and that was one of the main points of this meeting. But it'll never be a solution for Afghanistan if you don't get to a more inclusive regime where all people's groups are included and represented. These conversations started in Oslo, but they didn't end, and it's not like we're satisfied with the situation as it is now. We will continue to press with other international actors, both through the UN and with other Western donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e684	I want to go back to the issue of solidarity with the rest of the world in the many crises we are facing, and then the very concrete development budget, or the aid budget, as it is often called. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the government would give priority to food security, and there may be many good reasons to do so, but she did not consider the issue of the overall assistance in the current situation, with an increased need for a range of areas. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that it is reasonable or acceptable with any significant cut in other assistance to increase assistance to Ukraine and accept refugees in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e691	In the case of humanitarian aid, it has increased. It has been a very important signal to those in other major international humanitarian crises, that these are additional means. When it comes to the revised national budget, it's after all something our two parties are going to negotiate in the Storting in the spring, so we're going to get back to some of these questions. But in the discussion here, it looked as if the Christian People's Party was in principle against leading refugee expenditure in Norway as part of the aid budget. Well, that's what the party's been through in the past. Then we'll discuss how it's going to be set up, in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e698	When the ownership register was to be knocked through in Stortinget, the then Solberg government ignored several of the points of the Storting, including the amount of ownership to be registered. It can now help Russian oligarchs, who can get a port of refuge in Norway against financial sanctions because their ownership does not appear. During the treatment, the Workers' Party, the Center Party, Red, SV and others were on the same line saying that the threshold should be lowered for when ownership should be registered, but the citizens secured a 25-percent limit at the time before registration, which is very high, and which allows many of Putin's supporters to hide their ownership and thus circumvent the sanctions. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that there may be a need for changes here just to be able to hit these oligarchs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e705	This is a problem that very many EU countries are actively working with by day. We are informed that some companies are exchanging owners in the last few years – it is a listed person who is the real owner, and then it is transferred to others in the last few years. Then we recommend to the companies to contact us and do their thorough processes. This is a problem that all EU countries are now working very actively to ensure that the sanctions regime is effective, so we believe that we will be taken care of if we practice this wisely. There must be assessments of the individual company's lawyer and good due diligence investigations must be carried out for each company. That's the way we face this situation, where some people obviously try to circumvent the strict legislation established by these sanctions regimes. But I would like to stress that there are listed people who are involved in the sanctioning legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e710	I still don't get any sense of the investigation that the government is going to carry out, so I'd like to dig a little further on it. What is stated in the Hurdal platform is to look at experiences from neighbouring countries that have alternative agreements with the EU. Every time I have raised the question of what is the reason for this investigation, the answer has been about that you always need more knowledge. I can agree with that, but my question is: Why should we just get knowledge from that side of the debate and not get knowledge from, for example. related EU countries that are more integrated into the EU? After all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has himself recognised that we are now going to have a debate on Norway's relationship with the EU, so why should we provide a factual basis for only a weaker relationship? Will it not be healthy for the debate that we also provide a factual basis for a possible stronger relationship than the one we have today? It doesn't have to be either full membership or non-cooperation. There are very many degrees of cooperation. Why won't the government help to inform that debate with more facts?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e719	This is because this investigation is about what action space Norway has and the last ten years of experience. That's what this investigation is about. There will probably be various discussions about Norway's relationship with the EU, but it is not part of that investigation; it is a political discussion that will take place all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e724	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e729	First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good statement that she made here on Tuesday last week, and her contributions today. Russia's war of aggression in Ukraine is brutal. Lack of respect for the international law of war is overwhelming, but unfortunately not unlike what Russia has done during the wars in Chechnya and Syria. Housing blocks, schools and hospitals are being bombed, people are being killed, and the invasion has led to enormous suffering in Ukraine, and it has changed the security policy situation in Europe. For several years, we have seen a more unpredictable, aggressive and more assertive Russia, which is willing to use military power. What we're witnessing today is a culmination of a behavior that's built up over time and over years. In the light of the post-war, it is therefore natural to think that we should all do something more, and acted more resolutely after Russia's illegal annunciation of Crimea in 2014. But we, and our allies, have in a short time drawn many lessons, and things cannot go on as before. As the Foreign Minister stressed in his presentation, democracy, freedom and international law must be defended through action. It is therefore good that Norway stands firm with our allies in the reaction to Russia, but this also calls for radical changes in our bilateral relationship with Russia. In Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre's speech on the Northern Region Policy on 3 February, he addressed the northern regions as the main peace project in foreign policy. After 24 February, this project has become considerably more difficult, but nevertheless more important. And this is something that costs, and it costs especially for people in the north. The important people-to-people cooperation is currently impossible. Collaborating with Russia in Arctic Council is on hold. This is right, but it also hits those in Russia who want a different course than Putin's course. As former rapporteur, and with a good colleague in the neighbouring municipality, we had municipalities of friendship in Russia. Of course, we work together on culture, sports and youth, but one of the most important things our colleagues in these two Russian municipalities want to work with is how democracy works, how organisations can evolve and how to get things on the agenda in a municipality that can become state policy. The work is impossible now, and they have not been able to continue this either, because they would have put themselves in great danger. So we must therefore both stand firm and make wise choices in the time to come, not least in search and rescue and fisheries management, where we have the most important cod stock in the world, and where cooperation with Russia is important and has contributed to regional stability. The war in Ukraine has made it clear that security policy is something that concerns us all. The Minister of Foreign Affairs explained well why deterrence and tranquillity are the main elements of our approach to Russia, for together we are strong, and NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian defence and security policy. It is therefore good that Norway joins with soldiers in e.g. Lithuania. Because, as allied reinforcements contribute to increased security in Eastern European NATO countries, allied reinforcements will also be essential for Norway’s security in crisis and war. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, it is important to strengthen the strengthening policy, and the additional agreement on defence cooperation with the United States is thus of great importance. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement that it is difficult to assess the full scope of the effects of the war on Norwegian security and foreign policy, but one thing that is already clear is that the rivalry between the major powers is being reinforced. In the immediate crisis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has temporarily strengthened the staffing of several Norwegian foreign stations in Eastern Europe. In the longer term, the government will strengthen our ability to understand and analyse a new security and foreign policy situation for Norway, and it is therefore good that the staff of the EEAS are now strengthened in Europe. It is also important that the government will strengthen Norway’s global peace and reconciliation efforts by targeting the initiative, focusing on Europe’s unstable southern neighbourhood. Because, at the same time as international cooperation becomes more difficult, it is becoming all the more important. The war has already led to the greatest refugee crisis in Europe since World War II. Therefore, it is both right and important that Norway provide life-saving humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian people, both in Ukraine and in neighbouring countries. We also donate weapons and protective equipment to Ukraine, so that they can defend themselves, and we have also imposed extensive restrictions on Russia, and it is decided that Norway will provide temporary collective protection to Ukrainian citizens. It is a challenging time in Europe, but the war in Ukraine has shown us that the world can stand together, and during the vote on the Uniting for the Peace resolution in the UN General Assembly, only five countries voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e750	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. Not surprisingly, the war in Ukraine is creating a backdrop for all other foreign policies at the moment. The West has responded quickly and collectively, and the fragmented Europe that Putin saw for itself, to which he tried to contribute, is not visible today. I would like to remind you that when the Russian attack on his country started, some of the first President Zelenskyy was sending an urgent request for EU membership. This says a lot, because the pretexts of the ruthless war by Putin are just that Ukraine has become too closely linked to the West and is about to become too close to the EU. Ironically, Putin will see more of what he does not want, helping to push land against international organisations such as the EU and NATO. Putin wants less NATO, but NATO has increased activity in its eastern outer border. Putin wants a weakened EU, but the EU is more united than in many years, and perhaps ever. We see this along many axes, which was also the subject of the Council of State's statement. The sanctions against Russia have been followed up by all Western countries, and the condemnation is broad. Russia is today the country in history which, with a common international voice, is the most penalised, and the sanctions are many. In addition, the country is now excluded from international sporting events and from the Melodi Grand Prix, and we can mention more. As head of the European Council’s delegation to the Council of Europe, I myself can report on the historic process of Russia’s expulsion from that body. It hasn't happened before. All the other countries agreed to this, even though Russia, in a known style, tried to take the lead. What Russia was trying to do was get the other members of the Council of Europe in advance by notifying themselves, having regard to Article 7. It was a struggle for history. But this is not possible. Such a process can only be executed at the end of the financial year, namely 31 December 2022. At this point, I would like to correct the Foreign Minister in his statement, who informed that Russia was leaving the Council of Europe. So that's not true. It was the Council that ruled out Russia, 46 countries unanimously, and with an immediately equivalent decision by 46 governments of the Ministerial Committee. In the future, we will see more initiatives to deepen cooperation within the EU and between the EU and NATO, as well as between the EU and the Council of Europe. We also see a renewed NATO debate, both in Sweden and in Finland. It will strengthen the Nordic security work and is an example of the pushing Putin achieves, which is exactly the opposite of what he wants. Denmark assesses referendums on whether to end its exemptions from EU security cooperation and Switzerland assesses closer links with the EU in the future. These debates must be taken. I've seen NATO opponents think this is not the time to take debates and rematches. It's alarming. If this isn't the time to reconsider the resistance to the EU and NATO, then when is it time to do that? I want to praise the Socialist Left Party, which actually has a discussion about its NATO position. For the Right, the question is simple. We want closer cooperation with the European Union, and we have always been unreserved on the part of NATO. The question is therefore addressed to EU and NATO opponents: What solutions do you see for you? It requires courage to challenge its own dogmas. It doesn't happen by itself either. Most often it will be because of a shock from the outside, like a war. Well, the war is here. It's a reality that we have to take over. The debate must come. It's our responsibility to review our own position when reality changes. At this moment, it concerns the issue of the EU and NATO and on which security and solidarity we are to build the European future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e769	We read it, and we heard it from the Putin people. Those who warned against Russia's aggressive behaviour in recent years were driving the demonstration of Russia. No, the Kremlin has demonized itself. The cruel invasion that we see now in Ukraine is a total violation of international law and pure state terrorism. Civil targets are being attacked. Ten million people, a quarter of Ukraine's population, are on the run, and half of Ukraine's children are on the run. This is our Europe in 2022, and this is staged by one of our neighbouring countries. We have not seen such a threat to Europe since Nazi Germany emerged and would put an end to both human rights and democracy. Russia feared a democratic development in Ukraine. A democracy in Ukraine would not be verifiable for the Kremlin. Sweden and Finland also experience more or less hidden threats from Russia these days. The NATO issue has been put on the agenda in these two countries, and Russia has been clear on choosing Finland and Sweden as NATO members, there will be consequences for these countries. So this is Russia, our neighbor, and it's for good reason we can ask the question, what's next? Our security is based on NATO. Einar Gerhardsen was excited about a Nordic defence alliance after 1945, but when they saw Stalin's innovation in Czechoslovakia and the Communist power takeover, he dropped that option and chose to bet on and recommend NATO. Norway was one of the countries that attended and established NATO, there were 12 countries. Since then, we have been a faithful NATO member, and NATO membership has served our security well. There's a record of our NATO membership today. 95 pst. by the Norwegian population, it supports it, according to a recent poll. I notice that SV has started a reality orientation in its own security policy. It's affordable, there's no doubt about it. I see that Oslo SV almost challenges the political DNA in SV and wants a new NATO debate. That's why it's also a little strange when SV's deposit representatives appear in a VG statement and say that yes, you're to resign from NATO, but not now. You can't just turn yourself in and out of a defense salliance at your own discretion. You have to be in the alliance and stand by it and what it really stands for. In the case of Red, Moxnes says that you can vote very well Red and be a NATO opponent. The party's NATO resistance seems to be solid, despite the party's having a notion that they are the voice of the people. But the voice of the people in this area is unique, 96 pst. of the population is for NATO. What is happening in Ukraine also has implications for our relationship with Russia in the north, unfortunately. I have noticed that the Hurdal platform writes that we want to develop new meeting places for cooperation in the northern regions of Russia. So there's a reason to ask, what will these new meeting places mean in the current situation? After all, Barents' cooperation and cooperation have been put on hold in the Arctic Council. I think it's a political challenge big enough to try to save that cooperation, as the situation has become. We are facing a very serious situation. We must also keep order in our own home. The defense is our nation's insurance, and it must be paid before you need it. Therefore, the right supports the reported proposition, with an additional 3 billion. kr to the Defence. We need to build greater visibility in our own structure, and we also need to see if there are elements in our own defense that we now need to strengthen, in the light of the situation that has arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e788	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e794	Russia's brutal warfare in Ukraine will change Europe forever. If Russia ceases its warfare in Ukraine, the war will cease. If Ukraine ceases its warfare, Ukraine shall cease to be an independent country. They are now our first line defense against a brutal aggression in our neighbourhoods. Not only has it re-updated a debate on NATO in Sweden and Finland – Germany has also changed its foreign policy and needs to scale up its defences. The EU country Denmark will hold a new referendum to join the EU even more closely, by entering into the EU military cooperation agreement, for which they have until now been exempted. Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova have applied for membership. With Russia's invasion of a democratic neighbouring country, there can no longer be any doubt that a country's freedom, independence and right of self-determination begin and end with free, independent and democratic countries in its neighbourhoods. The main guarantor of peace, freedom and democracy in our part of Europe has been and is the EU because we are stronger together, because interaction binds us together and makes us interdependent and because committed international cooperation actually has something to say. Then it is reassuring that we have a government to explore alternatives to a more loose relationship with the EU than Norway has today. It does not help to state in the Hurdals platform that the EEA Agreement is to be firmly established for the government's foreign policy when the options explored are intended to weaken our link with pan-European cooperation, which our neighbours are now ending up with. The Minister of Foreign Affairs made a good and thorough statement, but when she and several people call our neighbor in the northeast unstable and unpredictable, I actually disagree with that. Putin has been stable and predictable in his desire to destabilise his neighbourhoods, while he has slowly but surely tightened his grip on his own population. Every time Ukraine has turned to the west – after the 2004 Orange Revolution and the declaration to sign an agreement with the EU in 2013 – Russia has increased its pressure against the country. The greatest threat to Putin is not the presence of NATO. NATO is a defence alliance, not an attack alliance, and Russia knows that well. The biggest threat is the emergence of successful democracies, with robust legal states in Russia's neighbourhoods. This could lead to demands for democratic reforms in Russia that are not in Putin's interest. Destabilising in its own neighbourhoods is counter-intuitive foreign policy, but for Putin’s Russia it is a rather intuitive domestic policy. After the Second World War, it is actually an institution that has contributed, above all, to peace, freedom and stability in Europe – and it is the European Community, the European Union. We should explore full membership, not how to stand more alone in a turbulent world. Mayor Raymond Johansen in Oslo asked in the evening post if there is now time for a new Norwegian EU debate. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e807	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough and thorough presentation on 22 March. Norway has an obligation to contribute all the help and support we can to help the millions of people who are now affected by the war in Ukraine. I am very pleased with how quickly the government takes action and how the municipalities follow up. That's good. Europe is now in an economic and financial struggle against Russian aggression, and it is difficult to imagine that the situation will be normalised without further delay when the war in Ukraine ends at some point. In this situation, Norway is best served to be politically close with our partners in NATO and in the EU. NATO is the carrier of Norwegian security policy. The Labour Party has stood by and supported Norwegian NATO membership continuously since 1949. Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, several former Soviet republics and former members of the Warsaw Pact have also applied for and obtained membership of NATO. The freedom to do so is important and in line with the central democratic and self-determining principles underpinning a free, open and regulated world order. It will also be important for Norwegian security to further strengthen military cooperation with the EU, the Nordic countries and countries such as Germany, France and the Netherlands. Many naturally address our relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement, because the situation and the attack war triggers, is a ‘game changer’ also with regard to the EU. The Labour Party’s Inge Debes said in 1929 about participation in the UN organisation ILO: – We have reported quite simply out of the preparatory work. We have the way out to take advantage of it, without having had trouble with it... we are prepared to harvest where we did not sow. He said that at the time, and it might be time to reconsider our relationship with the EU. This is a debate that we must take and which I welcome. It is clearer and clearer to me that our scope of action in the EEA Agreement lies in the preparatory work of the EU bodies, rather than in the jussification of how the results will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e820	In this case, we will also consider Document 13 for 2021-2022, annual reports for the international delegations. The various annual reports cover very different thematic and geographical areas, and Parliamentary meetings also have different links with the multilateral forums with which they are associated. A significant political effort is being carried out by the elected elected nationalities of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in the delegations. Some have close contacts with the government side of the organisation, while others have more indirect links. Some of the assemblies adopt resolutions throughout the year, while others make their decisions at an annual session. In the same way, Parliamentary Parliaments have many common features and are important for the democratic anchoring of multilateral political processes, and the various parliamentary assemblies are also important for contributing to learning, dialogue and international cooperation. The work of all interparliamentary assemblies was last year, in 2021, of course, strongly marked by the covid-19 pandemic. Different aspects of the control of the pandemic were also the subject of many of the meetings, and many of the meeting activities were carried out digitally, but also continuously throughout the year. Several countries also learned that democratic principles were put under pressure in the pandemic, and that some governments held well for a long time on their extended powers given by the parliaments. Although it was not the subject of the annual reports last year, the war in Ukraine is in the process of having major consequences for many of the assemblies. I want to bring forward the Council of Europe, where I lead the delegation of the United Kingdom, and for several years Ukrainian colleagues have been worrying about the agenda, about companies with the Baltic countries and more countries in the neighbouring region of Russia. This year, the first case of exclusion occurred for Russia. This is historical and also shows how such organs are able to act quickly. I didn't think it was about an international delegation, an international work like the Council of Europe, but in between 24 and 48 hours Russia was first suspended and then, shortly after, excluded. It is important to act together and look forward when the world's democracies have to stand together, against tyranny. It is also important to repeat that there are regimes that are excluded, but not the Russian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e835	I see that the debate is on the verge, but I just had to give some greetings to the representative of Moxnes, who says a lot strange when it comes to defence. I think I'll give him advice by saying, Shoemaker, stay by your reading. Now Moxnes isn't here now, but it's up to him not to be here or to be here. It is possible that that reading was interesting a few hundred years ago, but the reading Red is looking for is not in the 21st century. So Red wants to report Norway out of NATO, while other countries around want to join NATO. But the countries that want to register are the countries that Moxnes wants to cooperate with. It's going to be very hard to get it done. Is it true that Moxnes will only cooperate with Norway – working with itself? For he is very concerned about cooperation, which he was clearly on here. Then the representative of Moxnes says it will take 30 days for the Americans to come and save us. But with his policies, they don't come at all. Is 30 days better than nothing? They could have come even faster if the Moxnes had wanted a base policy and the Americans could have been here. They could come in two days then. But at least he won't. That's one of the last things he wants. So there's this thing about the knowledge of the Moxnes when it comes to the Defense. He says we can only defend a half-sized municipality. That's what we can do with our defense. But where are the defense appropriations? Has Red gone into the brink of more funding for the defence budget, more cooperation, more production in the defence industry, more cooperation out there, more education in the defence industry, more education in all the platforms we buy? I haven't heard a word about it. I've heard the opposite all along -- he's been talking about assault wars in other parts of the world. If you want a good defence in Norway, a good defence in Norway, we can start there. But it doesn't help how good it will be – we could mobilize 180,000 soldiers in the cold war, but even that wasn't enough. We needed more, and we needed help. Not least, we needed the development of the defence industry, the development of defence equipment, so that we could be fairly self-sustaining in some areas. Today we can't do that either. Today we have to cooperate with others because we produce components of systems, and the other parts we get from other countries – other NATO countries. We're totally dependent on other countries to produce as much as a gun in this country, and we couldn't be less dependent if Moxnes had tried to build up the Norwegian defence industry. He's been trying to build up the defense industry, because he's also against exports. If you're against exports, it's completely impossible to build a national defence industry, because it costs too much. There's no chance of creating our own defence industry in Norway and producing the platforms we need to defend ourselves in war. I actually think Red should come up here and stay by his reading and say, "We don't have anything on this; here we should just stretch our hands in the weather and let the others take over." Rather, they can drive to grant money for the good purpose of the job instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e848	There are a number of representatives from the Right who express their wish that SV should become some with the Right in NATO-saka. I think Right is looking forward to it too soon. What SV has said is that we should now have a wide-ranging security policy debate, and I actually thought that more parties should have. But instead, the Right assures us that they've been thinking about it for the longest time and won't think of a single new thought. Security policy is, for the first time, more than alliance policy and NATO — including the EU, which I believe others in the Right are now taking advantage of the opportunity to address it — but of course it is linked. The defence-policy establishment in Norway, with the head right, has for a long time built up its own Norwegian defence capabilities in order to be able to participate in wars in whole other parts of the world, with at best a peripheral connection to Norwegian security. I want to demand something more thoughtful and self-critical about this priority. The slope of SV is that we ourselves should take a greater responsibility for our security. We should strengthen national defence and defence tasks, with particular emphasis on having competent defence personnel, and more personnel, and we should think widely about social security and preparedness, including increased food production on Norwegian resources. I see that the Right also thinks new and does not use the slogans of war in the Norwegian debate to produce a successful position from an earlier era.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e859	We're at the bottom of the debate. There has been an interesting debate in many ways, because there is no doubt that what has happened in Ukraine has created both reflection and reflection in several, sometimes what I would call a relatively big ham change. But at the same time, I would like to stress that in order for a ham change to take place, it is important not just now to condemn, but to recognize what you actually meant and said when it was on. There are representatives here in the Chamber who in March 2014 believed that the condemnation of Russia following the invasion of Crimea was wrong, that the condemnation scolded the mood in Ukraine, and not least that it had to be seen that Putin faced a very difficult dilemma. It was also said in August 2017 that then Foreign Minister Børge Brende should work actively to remove the sanctions against Russia for the occupation of Crimea. As late as December 2018, the representative opened up for Russia to retain Crimea if it could improve the relationship between Russia and the West. In today's hall, on this pulpit, the representative Moxnes stood with considerable pathos and said that Norway must stop printing authoritarian leaders, like Putin, into the hand. But both SV and Red criticized the government as late as the fall of 2019, i.e. five years after the annexation of Crimea – an annexation and an occupation that led to a war that is still going on, a war that has cost 14 000 people their lives and has caused 3 million people to need humanitarian assistance. SV and Red wanted to press Putin’s hand in that context by inviting him to the 75th anniversary of the liberation of East Finland, because, as SV and Red said at the time, ‘Russian policy should not exclude Vladimir Putin from being invited to the mark [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e868	We're going through a lot of fate, with big changes. We have a climate crisis that needs to be addressed by ending the use of fossil energy sources. We have a natural crisis, so we have to have more nature. We need to stop pollution, both at sea and at land level, and we need to build a global market economy within nature's resilience. This while defending and extending freedom and democracy. At the same time, we have an emerging food crisis that will be reinforced throughout the year. With Russia's attack on Ukraine, our entire security policy situation has changed, and it will never be the same again. Answering this for Norway must, of course, be to strengthen our own defence, to cooperate within NATO and also to cooperate in the Nordic region with Sweden and Finland, regardless of whether they become members of NATO or not. It should also lead to a new membership discussion in Norway on Norwegian membership of the EU. It clearly also has a safety dimension. However, although there will be no membership of Norway, there is no doubt that the situation itself will make cooperation towards the EU much stronger in the years to come. But the situation in Ukraine is quite acute. It is essential that Norway, like other countries, continue to support Ukraine. It concerns arms support and military equipment support. This war has now lasted a little over a month. It will last longer, and we need security to ensure that the support lasts long enough, even with what we do. We need to support Ukraine with humanitarian aid. This applies via non-governmental organisations – Red Cross and others – but also via Ukrainian authorities, who also need financial support in the situation they are in. And we need to strengthen the sanctions. Norway is right and good to follow EU sanctions, but at the same time we also need to be a driver to strengthen them. We need to close European ports for Russian-owned ships. It also applies to the supply of fish from Russian ships in Norway. We also need to encourage and be positive that businesses go beyond the sanctions. This is about us in a crisis situation, and now this is about us putting as much pressure on Russia as we can. We must support the fact that Europe can reduce its dependence on Russian oil and gas. Energy cooperation with Europe is becoming more important, and there may also be urgent measures we can now implement. Finally, we should not forget the hundreds of thousands who walked in the street in Belarus a year and a half ago and fight Lukashenko, or those who are imprisoned and protesting in Russia and want a free Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e883	A lot in Europe has turned its head in the last month. Germany must now make a great effort in the military and can have the third largest army in the world. Sweden, which has always been neutral, can be at full speed into NATO. Poland has become a haven for refugees. I think all parties in Norway need to look at their policies with a little new eyes. The left proposed three weeks ago to cut all EEA funds for Poland. I think it's good that not what the proposal went through, when we see what kind of effort Poland is now doing for the whole of Europe. I hope we will have more debate on European policy in Norway, but I would warn against saying that it will be primarily about Norway joining the EU or not. There's certainly a debate we're going to have, but there's a lot of other debates we need to have, which concerns Europe. There have been several questions about the EEA investigation. It is an evaluation of our relationship with Europe over the last ten years. I believe that in this debate there are examples of misinterpretation on purpose. No one believes that the EEA Agreement will be terminated. On the contrary, I believe – and I have self-confidence on behalf of the EEA Agreement – that this investigation is going to make the EEA Agreement stronger. In any case, the EEA Agreement should be our connection to the EU with today's government. So, about the security policy. Today, March 29th, is a historic day. It's exactly 73 years since the Stortinge decided that we should be a member of NATO. This is what has ensured our safety over these 73 years and has left Norway safe. It was said that Jonas Gahr Støre said that the calculation does not go up with Red's policy. That's absolutely true, and it admits the Red itself. The Bears of Moxnes were asked in Political Quarter: Do you need a large enough army to protect yourselves? Then he said, "No, no country in the world is going to have." That's right! That is the whole point of a defence alliance – that we are going to be together with other countries. NATO is the only alternative. What other countries are you looking at? Nordic cooperation is very good, and there is more and more Nordic cooperation, but we now see that Sweden and Finland are on their way into NATO, precisely because they do not have the security guarantee. That's what they want. In many ways this war has shown its true self in the security policy. Red, which is usually concerned with having the clearest opinions and being in line with popular opinion, is the opposite. On February 22nd, when Russia was on its way into Ukraine, the Bears of Moxnes wrote on Facebook that he is taking a break from both Russia's aggression and the US's aggression, that is, both–and. Both sides have a little bit of a problem and a little bit of a problem. In view of NATO, when they see that they have the people's opinion against them, Red says, "No, but it's not that dangerous, it doesn't matter to us." What other issues of Red's policy can be rejected in that way? On the contrary, I believe that security policy is the most important thing. Security policy is the most important thing for a country. It plays little role with a good paper commission and good school if Norway is not safe. That is why the security policy must be based, and it does so through our NATO membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e896	In recent times events have simply been covered by the defence policy of Red and SV, it is not a believer. But you have to listen to what is also said from this pulpit, and the representative of Fiskaa said that SV is a defence-friendly party and goes in to strengthen the overall defence capacity. The overall defence capacity consists of our national defence, it consists of NATO membership, and it consists of cooperation with selected allies. My question is: what policy and what defence will the SV set up to improve our overall defence capabilities – and not least our ability to deter? There's an X in the equation that stays an X, and that SV is not able to give a proper answer to. To put it more concretely: I noticed an opinion from the great representative Bergstø the other day, who said the following: My NATO position stands, there is little NATO that has changed. – A little bit about NATO that's changed? What actually happens in our neighbourhoods? We now see an overall NATO, which is absolutely essential for Europe's borders not to be violated. Nordic defence cooperation is okay, it's okay to take a greater regional responsibility, but it can never be a substitute for our NATO membership. Then I have to remind the representative of Fiskaa that it is more than ten years since NATO returned to its original mission. The Sub-area Initiative, such as, inter alia: Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide worked for, led to NATO reorienting its strategy and returning to its original mission, namely the defence of its own territory and the ability to deter. But we can't be so naive, as the world looks, that there's no way forward that actually NATO has to go into international operations outside our own territory. How would ISIL have been combated if not the Western world with its military resources had set up? How were we going to deal with the attacks on the twin towers in New York? Should we let it pass? We exist in a world, and that is where there is a lack of reality orientation from especially Red, and also partly from SV, but for SV it is hope. The right has no hope for the process in SV, but the country – the inhabitants – expects democracy and freedom through a sound security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e905	It is possible that the representative Eriksen Soreide confuses Red with the Progress Party. In any case, I have registered that some of them have been very supportive of Putin. We also see in Europe that there are the outside right parties in countries by country that have fallen asleep and actively supported the regime in Russia. Red has nothing to do with the oligarchy regime in Russia and their attacks on Ukraine, and also condemned in 2014 — of course — the annunciation of Crimea loud and clear. At Tybring-Gjedde I can assure you that I see everything and hear everything. I got the post that came from the pulpit, which was full of some self-contradicting misunderstandings. Firstly, putting down the Norwegian Invasion Defense for the benefit of units and equipment adapted to attack wars is the opposite of Norwegian interests. That's what happened. And Tybring-Gjedde's party leader Listhaug was clear to the NRK last week that this has been completely wrong, now we have to go back to the defense. So I quoted the mercenary, and if that falls people heavily on the chest, then it's its case, but it's a fact that changing governments, a broad majority against the will of Red, have weakened the Norwegian defence for many decades in order to be able to participate precisely in NATO's out-of-area operations. Other parties may have a situational defence of international law; we are consistent. There's an important difference between Red and other parties. We want to go against attack wars no matter who's behind, not least when Russia is at the forefront of them. So the interesting debate is, of course, what can we do now to strengthen the Norwegian defence capability? Any country must be able to ensure a minimum of defence of its own territory, one cannot expect other countries to do the job on their own behalf. So strengthening the Home Security, strengthening the Army and restoring the Maritime Protection, it's Red suggested. We have also proposed greater appropriations for the country's power over many years. This should also be known for the representative Tybring-Gjedde. I hope that the Storting will go into this open-minded debate and look at the experience of Finland, which has maintained an invasion defence, which has 280,000 soldiers and can mobilize 900,000, and which has maintained a strong invasion defence. Here Norway may have some lessons to learn about the future defence of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e918	I think that the EEA Agreement and what the government is putting up to now are important in itself to the government. I think it's important to go through an agreement and find out what's good, and what's bad, within the framework of the EEA Agreement. For us in the Center Party, it's very important. We see part of what's happening around us, which could be the result of maybe we need some tightening or some other input into elements of the EEA Agreement. It is not a matter of having an agreement or not, but it is a matter of making this a better agreement, and I think that is very reasonable. When we have an organisation like NATO, I'd say it's an organisation that cleans what's going on in security policy; it cleans it up to create capacities to be a party in a world that makes the risk of doing things like this in Ukraine now small. There is no doubt that NATO has had some different roles in Europe, and it is clear that after the fall of the wall there was another NATO. It also mattered to the arrangement of our own defence policy. It is quite natural when such things happen, but at the same time it is quite right – as the representative of Rivers points out – that it is a neighbourhood strategy and a principle that has been established for a long time and for which Norway has been a driver. That's what happens now, that we get this collective defence; we get confirmation that NATO wants to solidify itself in Europe and make sure that much of what was – you could say before the fall of the war – is also a reality today. I would also like to say – in terms of our own defence – that it is clear that today we have a defence that is better in many areas than ever. We have soldiers who – no matter how people look at it – have combat experience, which soldiers actually need. We have soldiers who may be more motivated than ever. I also want to say that we have a home protection that might be better than ever. But what we're going to have a discussion about is how we're going to get endurance and visibility, and whether we're going to maybe use more of the resources that exist, and the opportunities that exist in mob-disposed teams. I am absolutely sure that we will have that discussion in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e928	The representative of the Moxnes pointed out that there are parties on the outside right in Europe that have supported under Putin, and there is every reason to be critical and keep an eye on it. But it does not change the situation that Red's position on NATO, including the SV's position on NATO – not being a member – would have undermined Norway's security if we had followed it. It's completely independent of how much we had spent on defense. If each country in Europe had invested in defence being something we should do separately, it is clear that there would be a gift package for Putin in the situation we are in. Then it would be possible to go into each country in the Baltic region. What situation would we be in without a NATO? It is clear that just looking at its own defence does not take on board the cooperation we need in order to safeguard its own security and to ensure European security. NATO has been the base of this and is more important than ever. It is essential that what we are doing supports under the position of NATO in Europe. And there is no contradiction between NATO's position and stronger European defence cooperation within the EU. Norway must also be a part of this, especially because at some level we are now seeing – we are in a time change – more and more a two-way street in the world in terms of freedom and support under democracy or authoritarian regimes that will undermine this. Then we must be part of NATO, and we must also have stronger European cooperation. Now European countries are strengthening their defence budgets, and it is as the representative of the Elves also pointed out: it is clear that, in the future too, there will be worrying areas in the world – whether Middle East or North Africa – where there may be a need for military presence, whether NATO or European cooperation, of which Norway also needs to be part. Right now, it's about stopping and resisting Russia's aggression and supporting Ukraine to the extent that Ukraine is able to withstand the invasion. But there's just as much a long-term positioning in a world where we need to support much stronger up under freedom and democracy. It is about having a strategy for this in international organisations, about having a strategy for it in our foreign policy, but it is also about having a very clear security policy anchoring in NATO and also in Europe in cooperation with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e935	This note goes to the Moxnes, which later to think that you can turn over overnight and say that you are suddenly for a defense. Defense is not political theory. Defence is a cooperation. It's international cooperation. The defence industry is a platform composed of seven to eight countries. It's the transfer of technology from a country. In order for us to have a platform, we need technology from other countries. That technology doesn't come without us being a member of the same alliance. They don't want to transfer technology. You can sit with an AG-3 on your back or sit with the button tent out in the shed and bring in HV soldiers, and it doesn't help anything. Where will Red's HV soldiers come from? They don't grow on trees. They have to be trained. Should they enter the defence service? Should they enter the first time service? How are they going to get into these 150 000–200,000 soldiers we're going to need to possibly defend four municipalities instead of just one municipality, as Moxnes will? This is an illusion. It's an oxymoron that Moxnes is talking about here. It's not possible to do that. They're trying to rely on something that doesn't exist. So good luck – it's not going to work!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e942	I just want to ask Tybring-Gjedde to read Red's budget proposals, see our strengths of both the Army and the Home Guard, our repatriation of the Maritime Protection Agency, and not least that we realize that participating in NATO's attacks, whether it is bombing Libya, participating in Afghanistan – wherever it should be – destabilizes entire regions. It creates millions of refugees and tens of thousands of killed, innocent civilians. Of course, they are as much worth as anyone else killed civilly, if it is in Europe. We are consistent in our defence of international law and our opposition to these attacks. So I just want to say to Åsmund Aukrust from the Workers' Party that it is both a little unfair and unprofessional to claim that Red has said that Putin is a bit right. We have unequivocally condemned Russia's brutal attacks on Ukraine. We promoted, like everyone else, a unilateral demand that the aggression cease, and we have not become any milder in the criticism of this authoritarian regime in Russia and the oligarchs around that regime after the war broke out through Russia's attack on Ukraine. We have also called for stronger and clearer sanctions against precisely those oligarchs who both serve search warrants on the authoritarian regime in Russia and at the same time finance the war machinery for Putin. For us, it is completely incomprehensible that the government cannot take care to correct yesterday’s ‘failure’ of the bourgeois government and make it easier to find out whether Russian oligarchs are making search for money in companies in Norway. It should be a narrow matter for the Workers' Party and the Centre to put a line above the taboo that the Advance Party and the Right with it did a few years ago, where they set a limit of 25 pst. in order to be able to gain insight into the real ownership of the companies. These oligarchs must be punished. We have to figure out who owns what, and then it's a minimum goal that the government is now taking action and following up in order to punish them financially as well. There is no doubt about what is Red's view in this matter. It is prepared for several rounds. What may be a little difficult to understand for some is that it is possible to be both harsh against Russia's imperialist assault war on Ukraine and also against other countries' war of attack on countries in Africa and Asia. Two thoughts in your head at once are fully possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e953	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e970	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e977	Thank you to the entire Committee for good and rapid cooperation on this matter. The proposal we are discussing today is a Red proposal to ask the government to carry out an evaluation of Norway's contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition in Syria. The proposal itself only receives the votes of Red and SV. I guess those parties are going to argue for their views during the debate. So I want to present what is the Workers' Party's view, which is probably also shared by the rest of the committee. I agree that our participation in Syria should be evaluated. The Labour Party believes that all major operations should be evaluated, as there is hardly anything more serious than sending Norwegian women and men abroad with the uniform on. There'll always be many dilemmas associated with doing that. Then it's always important that we learn from what we've done right, and what we've done wrong, because history never repeats, but there's always a lot to learn. So the Labour Party is for an evaluation, but we think it needs to be done in a proper way. And I'm going to write that with the other parts. We believe that this contribution should be evaluated, but we believe that this Red proposal is a poor starting point for doing so. That's three more reasons. Firstly, the Red's proposal is based on a number of crazy claims, both in terms of openness and anchoring in international law. It's just wrong to say as Red does, that this is a controversial interpretation of international law. There are claims that Red must answer for himself, but we believe that they are crazy and rejected. Secondly, we believe that the time right now is wrong, because the operation is not finished. We should be done with this operation before it evaluates. Then it's true that it wasn't in Afghanistan, but it can't be compared. In Afghanistan, 15 years had passed before we presented the independent Afghanistan evaluation. We believe that the operation should either be completed or at least have come to a close before we start the evaluation. Thirdly, the time to do it has become more wrong since the proposal was made. We now have a war in Europe. The Ministry of Defence should use its resources in areas other than Commission work. There is simply a lot of other things on the agenda. In addition, we do not know how the war in Ukraine will affect ISIL. In war, conflict and instability there is always a danger that terrorist groups will be able to mobilize. It's an unknown terrain we're facing, and we should therefore wait for both what will be our contribution to ISIL and how to evaluate it. Let me end by saying that although the Red's proposal is mostly about the military, our contribution to the anti-ISIL work has been far wider than just the military. There have been different forms of stabilisation. We have contributed health care and education in Syria, and we have been present with hospital services and mine clearance. Then I will end by thanking all the Norwegian men and women who have participated in the work, both humanitarian and military, for having been with and combating what is one of the worst terrorist movements in history, which stands for killing, torture, hate and enormous human suffering. We have helped to ensure that ISIL is no longer in control of individual areas in Syria and Iraq today, but the fight against ISIL is in no way over, either in the countries we are discussing today or in ourselves. We must continue to work against them, continue to work towards radicalisation and against hatred. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e998	What lies between the lines of this proposal, which became clear in Moxnes’ last post, is that Norway should not participate in international operations. Now, let's go back to the reality -- roll back a little bit. ISIL brought the terrorist threat too far back to Europe. On 13 November 2015, 130 people were killed in a terrorist attack in Paris. ISIL took the aim of establishing the Caliphate, restoring the Levant and turning itself into a Muslim authority over the whole world to all Muslims. ISIL was a long part of Al Qaida, and we know all of Al Qaida's and ISIL's brutal acts in recent years. In 2014, ISIL took control of Iraq’s second largest city, Mosul. The Iraqi state defence forces were unable to defend the country and oppose the attack. At the same time, Norway decided to join the global coalition with 83 other countries to combat IS. Now we come to the essence of this proposal, and what is the reason why we do not support it. Prior to Norway's entry into this coalition, a thorough international law assessment was carried out which concluded that this was in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter and a resolution of the United Nations Security Council. Iraq was under armed attack and had demands and rights to collective protection. The contribution to Iraq is based on an invitation from the Iraqi authorities. Norway has participated in training and training of the Iraqi army, but we have also participated in and contributed to stabilising health care and schooling activities. ISIL has spread fear and terror and committed cruel acts against humanity – actions against the civilian population over many years. ISIL is now territorially repressed, but still poses a threat. Finally, I leave this question hanging in the air: what would the situation be if we hadn't made a coalition to defeat this monstrous terrorist organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1013	The Norwegian contribution to the Global Coalition to combat the ISIL terrorist group has been extremely important. The coalition has wide international rapprochement, and by being united, the members of the coalition have contributed to the fact that ISIL is no longer controlling the territory of Syria and Iraq today. Through our work, Norway has helped to weaken the organisation, both territorially and ideologically. For many in Norway, it's probably a little strange that we as a nation are involved in this type of operation, but this type of operation has been the most important thing for a long time after the fall of the wall and has been built up gradually, culminating in several major terrorist actions. In addition to their military efforts in Operation Inherent Resolution, Norway has therefore contributed important stabilisation, security and security support and has contributed to working groups focusing on communication, funding flows and foreign fighters. This has been a very wide range. Our contribution has to a large extent been to support along the civil track. However, we must not be naive. ISIL has therefore not been repressed, and the terrorist group still has both the will and the capacity to plan and carry out terrorist attacks in Iraq and Syria. Other groups of ISIL-inspired ideologies are also getting more and more footholds outside the original core areas of Syria and Iraq, both in Africa and Central Asia. The threat is still there. Legality and legitimacy are fundamental prerequisites for military operations, and we in the Centre Party believe it is appropriate to carry out an independent evaluation of major foreign tasks in order to learn and contribute to maximum transparency. As I said before, there's something foreign to people when we have this type of operation. Therefore, these evaluations are important, and so are Norway’s efforts in the anti-ISIL coalition in Syria and Iraq. In 2020, we presented a proposal for a representative together with others on this very issue, stressing our desire for transparency and a basis for a common understanding of what kind of mission Norwegian forces are being set to carry out abroad. Now, however, is not the time for such an assessment. We believe that this evaluation should wait until we are closer to the end of the Norwegian military effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1026	Sending military forces for warfare abroad are among the more serious steps a state can take. It demands that both government and magnification are conscious of their responsibility – government by setting a concrete framework for the use of military power and the Stortinge by checking whether these frameworks have been followed. What we are discussing today is the latter element, namely the control of Norwegian participation in the war. Norway has been involved in Operation Inherent Resolution since May 2015 – first in Iraq, then also in Syria. Unlike our participation in Afghanistan and Libya, the efforts in Syria have not been the subject of an overall public evaluation. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV themselves made proposals for such an evaluation in 2019. Today, only Red and SV support the proposal, and it is a little surprising because all written hearings, among other things. by Amnesty International and Redd Barna, support such an evaluation. Since today’s government parties made their proposal, some alarming events have also emerged from these operations through the media – as of 3 January 2020, when the US used a Norwegian-guarded base in Iraq to carry out a drone attack to kill Iran’s top military leader, contrary to Norway’s condition that the war should only be waged against ISIL. The attack led to a counterattack on the base, where 70 Norwegian soldiers were staying, and it could have gone quickly with many lives. Another incident was when an American unit bombed civilians in Syria — a potentially serious war crime during the period when the United States and Norway joined forces in Operation Inherent Resolution. The NRC has reported that a total of 13 000 civilians may have been killed in air strikes during the operation in which Norway participated. As a small state, international law is our first line defense. Norway’s main task must be to arrest international law. Without an overall evaluation of Norwegian strength contributions, we do not know whether we are currently strengthening or weakening international law with our military operations abroad. Objections have also been raised against the international legal basis for Norway’s participation in Operation Inherent Resolution. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ judicial department concluded that although EU and NATO countries did not raise objections, the operation in Syria must be considered as ‘controversial international law in the absence of explicit authorisation in the Security Council Resolution’. The International Judicial Commission, Amnesty International and several leading international law experts are asking for all such a review of the international legal basis and enforcement. So it's a matter of time. I note that the members of the Committee from the Right will wait with evaluation until the operation is completed or strongly stepped down, but some such schedules are not on the Stortinget. We do not know when that will happen, so I propose that the Storting then follow its control function on its own initiative without waiting for others. But to meet those who want to wait, we promote the following additional proposals, namely: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of Norway’s contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition in an appropriate form before the end of the Norwegian military effort.’; We believe that this proposal will serve the purpose of what the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV supported in their 2019 proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1046	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposals Red is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1051	Norway decided in 2014 to participate in the American-led global coalition to combat the ISIL terrorist group. It was, and is still, an important effort against a cruel and ruthless terrorist organization. It is often close to asking those who in these discussions are against any use of military power – and it is to some extent related to the previous discussion as well – who are not in favour of NATO or military cooperation against terror in the Middle East; it is a red thread in not taking responsibility for global security issues. After all, we have had a thorough evaluation of the Libyan operation and the Afghanistan operation, without it being close to the criticism of international law which has been promoted here by this interlocutor. Moxnes refers to all the errors from the pulpit, because he says that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concludes that it is controversial. I think we have to deal with the facts in this case. It was a thorough legal arrangement, in which it was stated at the very beginning of the investigation that not having a UN mandate could be controversial. Then one goes very carefully through the reasons of international law, in a review of international law that has been widely recognised, in which it is concluded that it is not contrary to international law. So when completely incorrect statements are made as part of this discussion, I don't think it serves an open and honest discussion on these questions. I think it's also important to say that these terrorist groups are not defeated. ISIL still has significant will and capacity to plan and carry out terrorist attacks in Iraq and Syria. And once we've managed to limit ISIL's territorial control, it hasn't happened through humanitarian aid. It has not happened through peace and reconciliation. It has been through the use of pure military power. I think we just have to look into those eyes. I believe it is important to evaluate it, but I believe that the time will now be wrong. It was also the discussion we had in our time about the Libyan evaluation, where I signaled from the Parliament's pulpit that I thought it was right, but that it should be carried out after the Afghanistan evaluation was completed. So we have ISIL-inspired groupings that are getting bigger and bigger footholds also outside the original core areas of Syria and Iraq, both in Africa and Central Asia, as in Afghanistan, and that is very worrying. Then there's something that's important, and that's that the fight against ISIL we've led militarily, but also in other areas. I therefore believe that it is not right to limit such an evaluation to military efforts alone. It shall be adapted to the ground situation. Action against ISIL in Iraq and Syria takes place along several lines, including stabilisation efforts and through the coalition’s working group focusing on funding flows, foreign fighters and also communication. Norway participates in several of these areas, while Norway continues today with a smaller contribution to what is called Operation Inherent Resolution, which takes a lot of focus and resources in the coalition today and is largely devoted to the civilian track. Military efforts are only one of the tools of this important ongoing fight against ISIL, and Norway, together with several partner countries, contributes to the comprehensive stabilisation efforts both in Syria and in Iraq. In Iraq, this is an important part of the work to ensure that local public authorities provide basic services, such as health care, infrastructure and schooling in the areas where ISIL previously controlled. The decision relating to Norwegian military participation is according to common practice in Stortinget. Norway participated in military actions against ISIL in Syria in the period 2016-2017 and the basis of international law was based on the collective self-defence of Iraq, in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, supported by UN Security Resolution 2249 of 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1072	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1077	The question of an evaluation is, of course, about whether Norway’s participation has helped to strengthen or weaken international law and the framework around the military contribution. I will mention an incident that I took up in the post, and I would like to have the Foreign Minister's assessment, namely the attack carried out from a Norwegian guard base against Iranian forces. So we had been asked to participate in a coalition against ISIL, not in any attack on Iran. The attack could start a whole new conflict, which could have major consequences far beyond the base involved. Norway was not consulted, and Norwegian soldiers were thus put in danger. Does the Minister see the need to examine whether the conditions for participation were sufficiently strict, whether this was a breach of them, or whether there were too vague conditions for military participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1084	I think we should evaluate all the parts of an evaluation, but then I think we also need to look at what is the framework for combating terrorist organisations. Even when we have discussed the efforts in Libya and Afghanistan, we have evaluated all parts of it. I think that's right, and I think that's important, not least to us who are followers of the fact that military power must be used in the fight against terrorist organisations, because there are simply no alternatives. In such operations, we have seen that there are things that have not been consistent with the plan. I think we should have transparency about that, so that we can get better practice and other things. But what seems to be the basis of this proposal for a representative is almost a conspiracy theory where we have done something that is contrary to international law, because the representative has already concluded. He has not, of course, expressed any wish for an open evaluation in his proposal for a representative, but an evaluation in which he has concluded that we are violating international law. I think that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1092	This is then a conspiracy theory about Red promoted by the minister at the Stortinge pulpit. I don't take that very seriously, to be completely honest with the president. The importance of an evaluation is, of course, to examine whether there was a sufficiently strict framework for military participation and whether or not those frameworks are broken. We point in the proposal to, among other things, The Godal report, from the evaluation of the Afghanistan war, as one way to go. It was a thorough and honest review of participation in the long war in Afghanistan, which has provided some important learning points for the Greatness in the further work. To clarify whether our participation may have strengthened or weakened respect for international law should be essential for all parties, all the time we agree to ring around international law. Does the Minister see that point?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1101	Yes, I do. But when I read the representative proposal to Red, it's not about going into this with transparency. It's about something completely different. These are just references to the violation of international law throughout the proposal for a representative. So why the representative of the party Red really wants to evaluate, I don't quite understand the meaning of it. He has already concluded, on the floor of the Storting and elsewhere, that international law has been broken. I think we should have an open review; I think it's important. Especially for those of us who are concerned that we can only combat these kinds of terrorist groups through military instruments, we have seen that, I think an evaluation is important. But Red has concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1106	Our proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to carry out an evaluation in an appropriate form of Norway’s contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition.’ You have to have relatively special skyscrapers to read out that Red has concluded when we ask the government to carry out an evaluation. I also said in my post that when an American unit bombed civil in Syria, it was a potentially serious war crime. That is probably a reason why the International Judicial Commission and also Amnesty International support such a proposal. So I wonder if the minister believes that the International Judicial Commission and Amnesty International also have some conspiracy theories, or maybe, in line with Red, they want to get a thorough evaluation of just this contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1118	I think it is quite free from the representative of Moxnes here to present himself as a spokesman for Amnesty. I think maybe Amnesty doesn't agree with that assessment. And the proposal that the representative is now making has changed today. That is not what the draft representative has presented, which is really what we are debating. That's what he changed in the last minute. I often find it difficult to discuss with Red, because they make themselves like friends of the Kurds, but what the Kurds asked for in this current situation was not the detention unit that the representative here uses. What they asked for was military help. They also asked for weapons. The last time Norway refused, according to a very long and strict practice. That was the way we, through cooperation with our Kurdish friends, could fight ISIL. I believe that we should have an open and honest review of this, and that is why I am opposed to the preliminary conclusion on the basis of the draft representative we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1125	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1144	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1151	The representative proposal we have before us concerns the ratification of the third additional protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1989. In this case, Norway will participate in the individual complaint scheme under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. A majority of the committee is in favour of rejecting the proposal, and I would like to explain why we have this view. Although the proposal is new, the matter is of older date. During the treatment of Report. St. 39 for 2015–2016 agreed to not ratify the Additional Protocol by a large majority. Among the reasons for this was uncertainty about the composition of the Children’s Committee, working methods, resources and the interpretation method used by the Commission, which would be appropriate to ensure the proper handling of complaints. It was also emphasised that the provisions of the Convention were less suitable for the international review of individuals. It shall be added that in 2016 no individual case has yet been dealt with. Today it is. In particular, 21 cases have been dealt with in reality, and we can be sure when we still recommend not joining the supplementary protocol. The majority of the Committee points out that the consideration of the issue raised in the biggest notification revealed that many of the provisions of the Convention were vague and discretionary and therefore unsuitable for individual review. The majority also sees the importance of stressing that issues falling within the scope of the Convention will be dealt with in Norwegian law and that it is not desirable to contribute to Norwegian courts having to deal with a new and uncertain source of justice. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for giving a good account of the government's view on the proposal for a representative. From this assessment I would like to highlight in particular the following and quote: ‘The United Nations Children’s Committee’s practice has also shown that the Committee interprets the Convention on a number of points in a far-reaching way that is not in accordance with Norway and the understanding of other similar states.’ In sum, ratification of the Additional Protocol will result in an increased legalisation of policy issues and the accession to international individual redress mechanisms could limit Norwegian authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1169	The discussion on Norway shall ratify the third additional protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been discussed several times by the Storting. The last time this was discussed in depth was in the context of this Report. St. 39 for 2015–2016, and the result was a broad majority that did not endorse the ratification, based on an overall assessment of both positive and negative aspects. Since then, a broader experience has been gained in the practice of the supplementary protocol, and the assessments made against ratification have thus proved to be correct. I dare dare to make the claim that Norway has good arrangements to guarantee children's rights. The rights and complaints of children will be respected through the State administrator, the Civil Ombudsman or the Equality and Discrimination Department. In addition, you have the Children’s Ombudsman, who could be a supervisor for any complaints. The Committee has received an opinion from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the proposal for ratification. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has challenged the actual relationship with the agreement and refers both to the advantages and disadvantages of ratification. Overall, the assessment continues to be that there are more challenging conditions in the ratification of the third optional protocol. The practice of the United Nations Children’s Committee is mentioned here, which shows an interpretation of the Convention in a way that is not in accordance with Norway’s understanding. It can be pointed out that the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are vague, discretionary and inappropriate for the treatment of individual complaints, and that the abuse of the system by guardians who complain on behalf of the child can also be considered. This means that, overall, the Workers' Party wants to maintain the final conclusion, and therefore the Workers' Party will not support the ratification of the third additional protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1180	We're behind what's been said earlier in the pulpit here, but I still want to clarify a couple of things. The issue of Norway is to ratify the third optional additional protocol to the Children’s Convention on Individual Complaint Scheme was addressed for the first time in 2012. The advantages and disadvantages of any connection have since been thoroughly investigated. The issue was assessed through an external legal investigation and Notice. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. During this period, a broad majority agreed not to ratify the supplementary protocol. There will always be positive and negative aspects of a connection. In Report. It was pointed out on the one hand that joining the appeal mechanism could strengthen the child’s legal position. On the other hand, it was shown that there is considerable uncertainty about the consequences of Norwegian accession. One of the reasons for this is that many of the provisions of the Children’s Convention are vague and, not least, discretionary – as has been pointed out by several – and are bad for individual complaint treatment, which this is really about. When the conclusion on not recommending ratification was adopted, uncertainty was highlighted in the Commission’s composition, working methods, resources and the suitability of interpretation methods to ensure the proper handling of complaints. We agree on this, and there are important considerations to focus on the issue of ratifying the supplementary protocol. We in the Center Party want a good legal certainty for children, and we all do that – a good and fair legal security for children. Nevertheless, we support the majority's view that the proposal should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1193	I believe Norway must be a country of priority in terms of children’s rights. All children are entitled to have their rights fulfilled, but they must also be obliged to have their voice heard. That is why I think it is time for Norway to ratify the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Children's Convention on the Law of Individual Appeals for Children in Norway. It's about taking children's rights seriously. I am very disappointed at the ease with which this matter has been dealt with in the Committee, and I am very disappointed that the majority of the Committee is more afraid that the rights of children will have consequences for Norway than that of Norway to take the consequences of fulfilling the rights of children. The majority of the Committee points to the fact that the case has been thoroughly investigated in the past, but there has been a development since the previous investigation. Firstly, we have been given the practice of the Children's Committee to which we can look, and secondly, far more countries have ratified the Additional Protocol, among others. Denmark and Finland. So it looks different to standing outside. Norway has been a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child since 1991. The Additional Protocol on the granting of individual rights of appeal to children was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2011 and entered into force in 2014. Although Norway is already bound by international law by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is argued that accession would be unpredictable and could have consequences for the space of action of affiliated States. Human rights will always have consequences for the space of action of affiliated states, that's exactly why we have them. Furthermore, the opinions of the Children’s Committee are already a central legal source in Norway. Norwegian courts regularly deal with both the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the interpretation of the provisions there by the Children’s Committee. This should have been stated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his letter of reply to the Committee, in order to give the matter a balanced presentation. A connection to the supplementary protocol on the individual rights of children to complain will not in itself imply new rights, but it will mean that we adults have to listen to children. The majority of the Committee points out that many of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are vague and discretionary and are therefore unsuitable for individual review. This is common for human rights provisions, including those regularly reviewed by both Norwegian and international courts. The Minister of Foreign Affairs points out that the practice of the United Nations Children’s Committee has shown that the Committee interprets the Convention on a number of points in a far-reaching way that does not correspond to the understanding of Norway and other similar states. This is not unique to the Children’s Committee. This is actually the whole reason why we have universal human rights. They shall not apply only when States agree with them. Fear the children and the institution of Norway for human rights have pointed out that Articles 3 to 1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child require that consideration of the best interests of the child be considered as a fundamental consideration in all acts and decisions relating to children. The question of Norway’s accession to the Additional Protocol on the individual right of appeal of children is, in their view, a type of decision to assess the best interests of the child. I cannot see that it has been done during the handling of this matter. Nor has the Committee assessed whether this is a matter for which children are entitled to be heard, cf. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. SV believes that this matter has been dealt with too superficially and lightly. We believe that there are demands and needs for more thorough investigation before a decision is taken, in a matter of such importance to children's rights. We are therefore promoting a proposal that the Stortinget should ask the Government to present an assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of ratifying the Third Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, based on the new knowledge of the matters already dealt with by the United Nations Children's Committee and assessing the best interests of children in the matter of joining the Protocol. I hope this room can support this proposal, so that although the Storting is unfortunately not ready to give children the right to complain to the United Nations themselves when their rights are violated, we can get the right knowledge in place and the children's perspective to further consider the issue. I take this up with the proposal from SV and the proposal SV together with Red and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1208	The representative Kathy Lie has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1213	Today, we in this room could help to ensure that children in Norway were given better rights. By ratifying the third additional protocol of the Children's Convention, we would give Norwegian kids equal opportunities to hear their voices as they have in Denmark and Iceland. But unfortunately, the majority in this room won't do that, and I think that's a very bad thing. The Third Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child would give young people the right to appeal to the United Nations Children’s Committee in cases where their rights are violated. This could be done, for example, by: be in matters relating to violence and assault, bullying, asylum or other cases where the system and the State fail them. I believe that kids in Norway should have the opportunity to assert their rights. If Norway were to continue to be a leading country in strengthening children’s rights, the time would now be ripe to ratify this additional protocol. The majority of the Committee points out in its comments that increasing the legalisation of political issues through the inclusion of individual redress mechanisms could limit the scope of action of the Norwegian authorities to determine social and economic priorities. Then I feel that it's in my place to stress, as is the case with Redd Barna, that such a narrowing in the case occurred at the moment we decided to ratify the Children's Convention itself, and to give it precedence over other Norwegian laws. So what we're dealing with now is simply whether kids are going to have to complain about violations of their rights already. That this is as controversial as individual parties should have it for, I wonder mildly. So we're willing to give kids rights, but we're not willing to let them use their voice when their rights are violated. I think that's very illogical. This is also highlighted by the Norwegian Human Rights Institute, that Norway is already materially bound by the provisions of the Convention and that the Children’s Convention contains specific rights for young people who cannot be tried by other international bodies and courts already associated with Norway. It is a problem that the majority in this room do not want to strengthen the legal certainty of children and their right to appeal their cases to the Children’s Committee. Young people's voice and the best of kids are once again put in the backseat. It is claimed that kids have good opportunities to get their cases tried in Norwegian courts today. Then I wonder if the majority really believes that kids, including small kids, have good access to Norwegian courts, when even resource-intensive adults struggle to claim their right to justice? Furthermore, the Children’s Committee has just asked for national complaints in its comments on Norway. So if we don't ratify the third supplementary protocol, we should at least ensure a review of children's legal and procedural possibilities as they are today. The majority of the parties today agree that children in Norway should be protected less than young people in our neighbouring countries, and it is now agreed that Norway should no longer be a nation in the process of strengthening children’s rights internationally. It's sad that Norwegian children's votes don't go all the way up to this pulpit. So red does not support the majority of the committee. We want Norway to ratify the additional protocol, and we also support the solution proposed today by SV, that it should at least be investigated so that the Stortinget can deal with it at a later stage, if this is such a controversial issue for the majority parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1230	The issue of individual rights of appeal under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has been dealt with in the past by the Storting, but since then the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has gained a lot of experience in what kind of matters are being complained about. Where, at the last reading in 2015, there was uncertainty as to how this complaint would work, we now know with much greater certainty what kind of issues it is that come into the committee, and which countries are being complained about. There is nothing of the experience we have gained so far, which gives any reason to abdicate from Norway's responsibility for children's rights by not agreeing with the supplementary protocol on individual rights of appeal for children. When you read the comments of the majority in the position on this matter, it would be thought that the ratification of the third additional protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child should give Norway entirely new and almost unintended obligations. But the fact is that Norway joined the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child as early as 1991. So since 1991, we have committed ourselves to following the Children's Convention. In 2011, the UN General Assembly adopted a third additional protocol, which ensured an individual complaint procedure for children. It entered into force in 2014 and represented an important step towards strengthening children’s rights internationally, in line with Norway’s ambitions both at home and abroad. I think most people can recognize that it's obviously not as simple for children as for adults to claim their rights under international conventions. It really says itself, and that's a little bit of a reason why this is an important matter for me and for the Left. As the Norwegian Human Rights Institute points out, these are not rights which can be challenged in other international bodies and courts to which Norway is affiliated. This is an independent argument that Norway should accede to the Additional Protocol and grant Norwegian children the same right of appeal as children in Denmark, Finland, France, Germany and Croatia, to name a few. The majority of the population argue in this case that many of the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child are vague and discretionary, and that it would limit the scope of action of the Norwegian authorities to agree to the Additional Protocol. I find it strange that the need for Norwegian action rooms should be so much greater than it is for example. the Finnish or Danish authorities, to look at some of the countries which have acceded to this Additional Protocol. I have to say that I'm really quite surprised at this way of reasoning, because it's precisely limiting the country's opportunity to four on the children's rights that is the whole point of such a convention. That's exactly why we've been involved in designing and signing this convention. So the goal is really the opposite of land having space for action, the goal is that we should have universally respected rights for children all over the world. I would like to make it clear that children's rights are better protected in Norway than in most other countries around the world. There's no doubt about it. Therefore, it should also be unproblematic to sign this additional protocol. By referring to this need for national action, we are giving a loophole to all those countries that are actually taking a very easy time at the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Describing a convention that we ourselves have acceded to, and being vague and discretionary, is also no statement of trust in that convention, either to children's rights or to international conventions that Norway otherwise spends a lot of time talking positively about from the United Nations spokesman. It may be a burden for a country to give citizens the opportunity to complain to international bodies — it should be a nuisance. The rights of children are more important than those of the State. I'm not worried that Norway is going to lose room for action. What I'm concerned about is that Norway should lose its reputation and ability to speak children's rights internationally, because we do not take the consequences of a convention that we signed up to in 1991. I would now like to inform you that, in addition to the proposals that we are already on from the Committee, from the Left, the Red and the SV, we will also support this resolution in the case from the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1251	I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue. The rights and legal certainty of children are fundamental. Yeah, there's nothing that says more about the quality of a society than how to treat the kids. Child's best is a consideration that both sides of this debate hold high. There's no doubt about it. The disagreement is about the appropriateness of participating in the Individual Complaints Scheme under the Convention on the Rights of the Child in order to promote that very purpose. The majority are asking whether the Commission’s composition, working method and resources as well as whether the Commission’s interpretation method is appropriate to ensure the proper handling of complaints. Another of the objections we have heard is that the practice of the United Nations Children’s Committee has shown that the Committee interpreted the Convention more extensively in some respects than the understanding of Norway. On the other hand, the right of appeal will involve an additional safety net to safeguard the rights of children. It will strengthen the legal certainty of Norwegian children. It could also provide the basis for more countries to join the Additional Protocol in the long term. And a number of very similar countries, if I can say so, have joined the supplementary protocol. The child ombudsman is also clear in his support for the proposal. Overall, therefore, the Christian People’s Party Group has come to the conclusion that it is time for Norway to ratify the third additional protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, ensuring that Norway participates in the Individual Complaints Scheme under the Children’s Convention. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal and do all we can to give children a stronger voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1264	As the representative agrees, I cannot support a recommendation that we ratify this individual complaint mechanism. When we discuss children's rights, we can look at the experience of this committee. So they have dealt with 21 cases, and it is not that children in countries that have ratified this Convention have significantly better legal certainty than Norwegian children. And if we look at how they interpret the Convention, the Committee interprets it in a very far-reaching way that is not in accordance with the understanding of Norway and other like-minded states. For example, they had a case against the French authorities on the issue of jurisdiction, and then the committee found that French children in Syrian camps under Kurdish control were under French jurisdiction under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We have not agreed with the interpretations that have been made, and I think we should be a little careful to say what an extensive meaning it has for Norwegian children to get this individual complaint system. It's about the fact that very many of the provisions of the Children's Convention are vague and objective, and in these areas, the state has a considerable margin of discretion. We have a great many national complaints systems, which have the competence to deal with issues relating to children. We do so within the State Manager, who deals with issues relating to kindergartens, schools, child protection and health and care services. The Governor of State may take new decisions on a case and annul the contested decision. The Civil Ombudsman is an important control and complaint body for public administration, as is the fact that discrimination can be dealt with in matters relating to age-related discrimination. The Boards of Appeal may also provide guidance to children on their rights and children may be assisted in any appeal. Children can also receive guidance elsewhere, such as: to the Children’s Ombudsman and Young People’s Party. So I believe that Norwegian children will not get any extended rights through this system, which has only dealt with 21 complaints, and that we have very good national complaints systems for children today. We may be able to extend them, but there is a discussion that may have to be included in another committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1276	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1294	After the appointment of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1301	The issue we are going to debate now is a proposal from several representatives of the Progress Party to set up an independent aid commission. I think there's a broad consensus in this room about having a critical look at and a constant openness and constant monitoring of how we spend money to help, and whether the money is spent in a good way. So I think there are many here who actually sympathise with the intention of the proposal of the Progress Party. But for my part, I would say that, for example, When it is said that the Commission should consider ‘aid policy choices’, it goes a long way into policy making. It is also the case that the Minister for Development writes to us in the Committee that it is “necessary to ensure that Norwegian tax payments are used in the most effective way possible to achieve development policy and assistance objectives”, and that we are also subject to a review by the OECD, which is to have a mid-term review of now in May, in addition to having the National Audit Office, and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is investigating itself. So the question is what is the added value of putting down an independent commission. The majority of the Committee has fallen to the fact that the control mechanisms we already have today are sufficient. In particular, I would like to highlight the Riksrevision, which has had good reviews, both in 2019 about education and a matter that is now in Stortinget. So the majority of the committee proposes that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1312	About 40 billion. kr is given this year over the development budget, which corresponds to around 1 pst. of gross national income. Few countries are as shy as Norway in terms of aid and development, and it is positive that Norway assumes great international responsibility. There has been a tradition back to Fridtjof Nansen, who so well-knownly said that next love is also real politics. We have faith in Norwegian values, and we believe it is positive that Norway is promoting these internationally. That doesn't mean we're going to distribute money indiscriminately, because at the end of the day, it's the community funds that we're distributing. It requires that we grant responsibility, transparency and transparency. Recipients must be required and Norwegian taxpayers must know that their contributions are managed in a sound manner. The representative proposal we have before us calls for a concrete measure to ensure this for Norwegian aid. More specifically, it is proposed to set up an independent aid commission to review our whole aid facility. The right is not negative to such passages. On the other hand, we believe that there is no type of action that should be given priority at this moment. We are of the opinion that we already have a good control and follow-up system for the assistance provided in Norway. Norwegian assistance is subject to a thorough review by the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is carrying out a review on its own initiative. By 2019, Norway was the subject of the well-established peer review mechanism of the OECD. As stated by the Council of State in its assessment of the draft representative, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in the process of following the recommendations made therefrom. This is wise, and it is necessary. Under the government of Solberg, several measures were taken to increase the transparency and transparency of Norwegian development policies, a thorough work that produced results and also gave direction to change. We carried out a major Norad reform, which means that the Directorate is delegated responsibility for major areas of aid management, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is given a more pure responsibility for policy development, overall assistance arrangements and representation at major international arenas. Clear and clear responsibilities provide the basis for the use of development assistance and assistance where most is needed, and can be followed up and demonstrated. We also reviewed our partner country agreements and carried out a significant reduction in the number of agreements that Norway had. In addition, the Right in Government established an aid portal which makes it easy to get an overview of the means of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1329	We in the Central Party share the views of the representatives on the need for transparency related to Norwegian assistance. We want to encourage a public and political debate on Norwegian aid and government priorities when it comes to development policy. This should include, inter alia: help ensure the best possible use of Norwegian tax money so that we contribute effectively to sustainable growth, poverty reduction, the strengthening of human rights and the achievement of our climate objectives. In order to contribute to societal change, this government will maintain a high level of international assistance and use 1 pst. of gross national income in order to achieve the global objectives of social, economic and environmental sustainability. Norwegian efforts shall be managed in such a way that it is deployed where it maximises its impact and creates as much positive, self-enhancing – that is important – ring-effects as possible. In order to ensure the achievement of the objectives and the effective use of aid funds, there is a comprehensive regulatory framework and good administrative practices. This calls for major demands on the partners implementing development policy, both to ensure that the funds deliver as much progress as possible, and to prevent misuse of funds. It is true that some countries, including the United Kingdom and Sweden, have set up aid commissions. This has also been discussed in Norway – and we are discussing it today – and we agree that a review of Norwegian aid is important. We believe, however, that this is already being done through continuous assessments from, among others. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will review the recommendations of the OECD peer review in 2019 in a mid-term review in May 2022. The next time the OECD will present the corresponding report to Norway, it is planned in 2024. Norwegian assistance, as the representatives refer to, is also subject to a thorough review by the National Audit Office. In addition to a competent government, good and independent experts in Norway are already assessing different parts of Norwegian development work. This is done on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Norad, but also — and it is important — on its own initiative. This shows good procedures for monitoring and monitoring Norwegian aid. The centre party therefore does not see the added value of an independent aid commission at the given time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1342	I think the parts here in the hall might talk a little bit past each other. Among other things, the Council of State states in reply letters to the Committee that support for high-level assistance is high in the Norwegian population. But that's not what we're talking about. The people need to know if it's working. You can't measure the support for assistance based on what you say you're willing to pay over the state budget. There are the results that matter – and we have to agree on that. So first we have to see if it works. And then we have to know, what are the dimensions? That's the most important thing. What if we don't have clear targets? If you aim to build a well or build a school, but there are still more and more hungry, more and more poor, more and more corruption, more and more refugees, yes, then the goal is not to build a well. It cannot be if it simply continues and increases poverty in these countries. The only way to measure the impact of assistance is, of course, that people become independent of assistance. This is also true if you go to social assistance at Nav in Norway. Then you would say that the goal is to get them out of Nav. This must also be true of the objective of aid, but that is not the case with today's policy. So you could say that maybe it's so hard that it doesn't work out. Yes, then at least you have to try to set goals, so you know what the goal is. And we know that through the hearings we've had in the committee. We've been sitting there for two days with organizations that point out that they're going to have absolute money, whether it's going to go to women in Burundi, or to action in Uganda, they're all sitting there and thinking their case is the most important thing in the world. What the Progress Party wants to do is go through the whole instrument, find out which organisations are involved, how many employees they are together – I know there is a place between 2,000 and 3,000. We need to find out how to spend this money as efficiently as possible, and what is the objective of individual organisations – coordinate it and find out whether it is in line with the overall objective of government and the Stortinge. I don't think so. And we have to get this through with a clear mandate, so they know what to do. The conclusions of the National Audit Office have been unequivocally negative, but every time the Riksaudition comes up with conclusions, nothing happens. Nothing happens, and then you think in this room that you measure a kind of indulgence through the aid budget by the fact that the one who gives the most in aid is the kindest. But that's quite the opposite. After all, it is the person who asks critical questions and wants it to work, but not depending on money usage, and who says that we need to put in place measures where people become independent of assistance. I have asked the Council of State just that question: how many have become independent of assistance? And only South Korea has become independent of assistance from those who have received assistance from Norway. We can't go on like that! We have heard from the UN organisations that this is becoming increasingly dependent, that more and more people become poor, and that more and more people are starving. It does not help to inject more money that does not work and makes even more people poor. It's the population growth that's a challenge. It should be looked at. You have to look at the totality, and therefore an independent aid commission makes sense, and it's a shame that the other parties don't support it. It doesn't help much, but I'm taking up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1357	The representative Tybring-Gjedde then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1362	I share the objectives of the proposers that all Norwegian aid should be used as efficiently as possible. Norwegian development cooperation shall be knowledge-based, performance-oriented and high professional quality. This is why the previous government introduced its own performance portal, which allows everyone who wants to follow assistance and see what difference they actually make. One can go into statistical material and performance assessments and see just such specific examples. The portal shall also provide the areas where the results may be weak, where the government has to take responsibility, follow up and require changes or close projects. Strengthening the quality of assistance was also the objective of the reform of the aid management, which the Solberg government carried out. Norad was given greater responsibility and strengthened as a developmental management environment, while the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has gained a clearer role as a strategic developmental force centre. An effective development policy requires facts to have power, and the new set-up was among other things. with a view to contributing to ensuring precisely that. For it has to be better and more effective to build a good system of professionalism, efficiency and quality in assistance that continuously strengthens and controls the establishment of ad hoc committees or commissions at the desired time and time. Then I would like to stress that there are few areas of Norwegian policy that are more evaluated, controlled and examined than assistance. At the same time, there is no field of Norwegian policy where the money has better results in terms of averted deaths, the burden of disease that has been eased, children who have received schooling, and hundreds of thousands who have received a living. I agree with the ambition for results-based and effective assistance, which supports people and society in working out poverty and poverty, and which faces acute crises. It's a work that has to happen continuously, and here we can never settle down. But does the Christian People's Party believe that everything is good in Norwegian aid? No, absolutely not. The Christian People's Party wants an even clearer focus on the poorest countries and the most vulnerable groups, in line with the principle of the sustainability agenda, that no one should be left out. We want increased cooperation with civil society organisations, which, with their presence on the ground and their networks, ensure lasting solutions that are built from below and up. Then there will always be political debate on priorities. That debate cannot be outsourced to a Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1375	I would like to welcome any change of words in this Chamber on the objectives, instruments and results of development policy. It is important – especially in this Chamber, where budgets are adopted. With regard to this proposal, which has been promoted by the Progress Party, I have explained the government's position in a letter to the Committee. Assistance – even at a time when our resources are under pressure – is a moral imperative, and it is also an investment in a more stable world order. There is broad political agreement that development cooperation is important and necessary. This reflects support for assistance to the people of Norway. Framework conditions may change rapidly for development policy. I am therefore proud that Norwegian assistance, internationally and by our civil society partners, is being promoted as flexible and adaptable. This is not in contrast to good performance follow-up. A large amount of work has been done through changing governments. Work has become a solid system of comprehensive legislation and good administrative practices to ensure the achievement of the objectives and effective use of the means of assistance. It is well documented, nationally and internationally, that development cooperation leads to both concrete and more comprehensive, good results. The assistance is subject to thorough reviews by the National Audit Office. An appeal has been that the Stortinget is getting an underbalanced presentation of the results obtained, and that there is room for learning and improvement in the Norwegian aid system. These are things we take very seriously and work with them every day. A comprehensive review of Norwegian assistance is carried out through the OECD's well-established peer review mechanism. The OECD has highlighted that Norwegian development policy is ‘leading and consistent’ and an example of follow-up. Neither the National Audit Office nor the OECD has recommended the establishment of an aid commission to strengthen the strategic planning or implementation of policy priorities. In the Hurdal platform, we state that the government should be more strategic in the choice of areas and priorities for development policy and manage Norwegian efforts to maximise their impact. This is an important point that is leading my work every single day. With an already good monitoring and follow-up system for assistance in Norway, I am not sure of the added value of setting up an independent aid commission now. I note that a majority of the committee shares this view. However, I am always open to maximising the follow-up and evaluation of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1397	This is not about how much money is allocated over the state budget, nor how much recognition is given internationally for giving a lot of money over the state budget, as the Council of State spoke about from the pulpit. It's about whether it works, and what's the best way to make it work. Since it is then believed that there is no need to do what the Progress Party proposes, I would like to ask concretely: is there any concrete measurement barometer on what should be considered successful assistance, and what are these?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1405	I stress that neither the Riksrevision nor the OECD in its thorough reviews has recommended the establishment of an aid commission on the format proposed by the Progress Party. However, they have made a number of other recommendations, followed up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on a daily basis. As has been referred to from the pulpit earlier today, there will be a mid-term review of the follow-up to OECD recommendations in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1410	I repeat the question: are there currently concrete measurement barometers for what can be considered successful assistance, and what are these?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1415	I can assure the representative that every agreement, project and programme funded by Norwegian aid funds will be reviewed with a view to a clear performance framework and measurable indicators of what is to be achieved in each project. It will be too extensive to go through the complete portfolio of Norwegian assistance and explain it from this pulpit now. However, I would recommend the representative to take a look at the performance portal as the previous government has been set up in a commendable manner, and be inspired.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1420	I've been around it several times. I'm sure it's nice. But it does not meet what the Progress Party wants to get into that aid commission, and I think the Council of State actually sees it. What we want is to know what the goal is. What is the goal, and if you find a goal, does the method you're using to achieve that goal? If you're unclear on the goal, it doesn't help how much money you inject to achieve a goal you don't know what is. Then you won't be nicer, better or more merciful to spend even more money, as there's competition in the Storting every time there's a budget negotiation. So I ask the council again, how can you measure that assistance is successful? Does the Council agree with my claim that the only way to measure successful assistance is for the country to become independent of assistance in the long term? And how many countries have now become independent of Norwegian aid and manage on their own?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1425	The overall objective of Norwegian aid is poverty reduction and, of course, the representative is right that the long-term overall objective is that a country should be unassisted. These are extremely complex and long-term objectives, which I am sure the representative understands that cannot be the only rewarding thing to say if assistance is successful or not. On the contrary, if we go into each programme, each project and look at the concrete indicators of achievement there, I am sure that the representative will be inspired by many good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1430	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1447	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1454	The proposal from the Progress Party that we are discussing today is not getting multiples. It is because both Right and other parties want to develop Norwegian socket, he did not liquidate. The industry has been very clear that a target should be reached, which the Progress Party has also helped to adopt here in this Chamber, must have a applied force from country to country. And there's good reason to use our surplus power for this. The total excess power exported annually to the rest of the world varies from year to year. Last year net power exports were 17.3 TWh, and the year before 20.5 TWh. On average it is approx. 10 pst. of our output for which we have not yet needed, and sell to the rest of the world. It must be better to achieve our climate objectives using our own power here in the country, rather than to export the force unprocessed to the rest of the world. Then a row of fields is not suitable for power from land. According to the report of the Oil Directorate, Power from Land to Norwegian Socket, Norway has 94 fields in production, but it is only relevant to electrify 24 of these fields. Then, of course, there's new findings, which are also being expanded. For next year, 45 pst. the power of production on Norwegian base is exerted from country to country. In a few years, 50 pst will. of our production are electrified, and the emission gauge will be reached. It would therefore be directly inappropriate to stop electrification now. It doesn't provide any care for the industry. Many concessions have been given, contracts have been concluded, work has been started, and it is expensive to reverse this. Several development plans also depend entirely on power from land to be realised. Many jobs are at risk of the winged policy from the Progress Party and not least now from the Centre Party for Norwegian Socket. The challenge of electrification of the base is to get the excess power to the coast at the right time, where the players on the base will take the power and lead it in the cable to the base. Therefore, the Right makes a proposal, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which I take up here, and it reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for each ‘power-from-country’ project to be assessed separately and seen in the context of power availability and cost of action. New large power take-offs such as the electrification of petroleum installations with ‘power-from-country’ should be linked to areas where there is strong grid and good power supply.’;» I should like several parties to vote in favour of the proposal. It must be seen in the context of technological developments, both within wind power and within local power generation with CCS offshore, and not least with the availability of power from land. The proposal provides the government's actual ability to consider alternatives other than power from land only, if access to power from land may be required in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1472	The representative of Ove Trellevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1477	For decades, access to sufficient clean and reasonable power has been the main competitive advantage of the Norwegian industry. And let there be no doubt: it should also be in the future. In the Hurdal platform, we are clear: Norwegian oil and gas industries are to be developed, not liquidated. We still want activity on the base. This industry will then have to actively reduce its greenhouse gas emissions in line with all other activities. And if Norway is to be able to achieve national and global climate targets, Norwegian emissions on a pedestal need to be reduced. I want to commend the oil and gas industry, which has reviewed and identified measures that need to be taken to meet their climate obligations. Electrification of existing and new fields is the main measure of achieving the climate target and represents a total of 87 pst. the emission reduction needed to achieve the 2030 emission targets. The working party believes it is important to ensure that further electrification of new and existing fields does not have to be at the expense of electrification of new and existing industries on the mainland. The electrification of the cap must, as far as possible, be done with sea wind or other renewable power produced on the base, balanced by power from land. It is also important that each electrification project be considered separately. Force from land is not a possible solution to all existing fields on Norwegian soil — some because it is not a socio-economical measure due to lifetime or location, others because there are space and weight limitations on installations, technological challenges and lack of capacity in shore-based electricity grids. Where possible, existing installations should also be connected to shore-side power under conditions, as they have already installed gas turbines that can be used for power shortages in the network. Connection under conditions will ensure security of supply on land and, in specific cases, may be adjusted against land-based needs. It is essential that new instruments for electrification are investigated, and I would like to stress that if we are to ensure that the cap is electrified preferably with sea wind, new tools are needed. Development of climate partnerships with industry can be one of these. But what's urgent is to advance the production of new renewable energy to people and industry, and that the state is taking responsibility for increasing the capacity of the grid throughout the country. Unfortunately, we are following something here, and I am therefore very pleased that today's government is doing everything possible to bring this pace up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1498	The world and Norway face major challenges. The unstable situation in our neighbourhoods does not make these challenges any smaller or simpler. We're going to achieve climate targets. We need to ensure adequate power for Norwegian households, industry and business. And we're going to develop – not liquidate – the oil and gas industries. The security policy situation in the last few weeks has highlighted the importance of the last one with great seriousness. This does not mean that we should put other important objectives at risk, but it reinforces the need for a vital and prejudice-free debate on how best to achieve the overall objectives. The size has committed itself to the Paris objectives, and in the context of pandemic management, it has also committed itself to aligning the climate targets for emissions from the base from 40 to 50 pst. reduction by 2030 – a goal that is feasible but cannot be achieved alone without taking into account other goals and what the world looks like around us. For example, the war in Ukraine underlines Europe's need for Norwegian gas if we are to make the transition in a green direction. It is about both climate change and security policy. Reducing Norwegian gas production and exports now, as some have thought to be high and clear until recently, will be a very unfortunate signal. On the contrary, Norwegian gas is needed more than before. The representative proposal from the Progress Party that we are dealing with today is about to stop all further electrification of Norwegian pedestal. It will have very serious consequences. First of all, it will, among other things: contribute to e.g.: The wisting field is not being realized, because the field does not have enough gas to operate its own gas turbines. So the field is completely dependent on electricity from land. This shows that the proposals of the Progress Party do not adequately address the nuances we need in this debate. On the other hand, the Hurdal platform is nuanced and has a clear two-part objective of further electrification of oil and gas fields, while ensuring sufficient renewable power for new and existing mainland industries. Electrification of installation on the base shall be carried out as far as possible by sea breeze or other electrification solutions on the base. This will not only help to shield mainland Norway against power losses and high prices. It will also contribute to new value creation through the development of the marine wind industry and increased power generation, both of which are desired. The government's announced additional proposal will return to Norway's reinvigorating power and floating sea winds. At the same time, we must recognise that this is a debate with many shades. There are many goals to be met, and I think it is important that we all come up from our different pit edges and discuss with a broad brush how we can achieve the climate targets on the base and how we can also achieve the security and energy policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1513	I think there are very many of us who have come to realize that there have been major changes in the power market lately, so much change that I had hoped that several people had seen that the use of and access to power is not the same as just a short time ago. Prices have peaked, demand is record high, and use is increasing more than production. The force surplus is, and is going to be, reduced. All these are signs that we should review previous decisions on, among other things. electrification of the base by ground force. That is why the Progress Party is promoting proposals for that very thing today. In fact, there are more and more people who are now taking up protests and turning around electrification. We see multiple contradictions in multiple games, and it's a little bit funny with the Center Party, which is still moving out and being skeptical, but still it's just a little bit of prank and little action. So I am delighted to hear Sigbjørn Gülsvik and Marit Arnstad speaking today about the elephant in the room. They shall know that they have a good opportunity to vote for the available power in Norway to be used for value creation and jobs rather than to become climate symbols at insanely high costs. An example from my own region: There drives NVE and works on a new 420 kV line from Blåfalli to Gismarvik. It'll cost billions of dollars, it's the online customers who have to pay to get this line in place. Why do we build that line? Yes, among others. because the force of the Johan Sverdrup field is taken from this area. Now the region loses its establishment because the area cannot deliver power in many years. And it's the online customers who get the bill. This is going to be all right, and there will be a lot of new jobs for this region. But can we, as a society, continue the way we have now – spending a lot of taxpayers' money on little socio-economic investment? Can we risk missing future jobs and value creation because we use available force flaws? Can we risk missing future jobs because the price of power to business is too high? Will the majority in this room be able to defend that we are going to build 1000 new wind turbines on land to replace the power that is agreeing to electrify the base? And can we defend to spend 50 billion dollars. kr of taxpayers' money to electrify the socket, while we have problems explaining that the measure provides a climate benefit? I hope that more people will join in and take this opportunity to facilitate the continued low electricity prices in Norway, that they will still be attractive for the creation of new power-generating industries. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1526	Then the representative of Terje Halleland has drawn up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1531	A short time ago, the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change came. Once again, we were told how serious the situation is for our society. In this situation, the response of the Progress Party is to weaken Norwegian climate targets. The Progress Party's response to the serious challenges is that we should do less to combat them. Oil companies are the ones that have increased their emissions most deciduously in Norway and that emit most today. Then we can't weaken the climate requirements we target them, we have to tighten them up. Many are skeptical about using shore power to cut off offshore emissions. SV said a long time ago that instead we had to oblige the oil companies to expand and pay for the electrification by investing in offshore wind power. In this way, we can use the work to cut off the offshore emissions to create jobs on the Norwegian coast yards and develop a technology that we can get export revenue from in the future. But the Progress Party will only weaken the requirements of the oil companies and give a blank in the climate goals. Over the past few days, I have come to realize that other parties can also have the same idea. But it's getting a little comical about the resistance of the Progress Party to use shore-side electricity, because while they're today proposing to stop further electrification with power from land, the party will grant exemptions for the second-largest expansion project on Norwegian pedestal in the years to come, Oscar Wisting. Here they want to use shore electricity, here they would drain Finnmark for power to ensure an oil expansion that before the coronary apex was estimated by Equinor not to be profitable enough to ensure that it was safe to implement. This is an extension that the Progress Party puts itself in the front row to power out cables. In other words, there is nothing other than symbolic politics today's Progress Party. But I guess we're used to that in this room. I look forward to hearing why the Progress Party believes it is right to use badly needed power resources from Finnmark to Oscar Wisting, while at the same time proposing a principle no to this type of action. I'll bring it up to the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1542	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposals on which SV is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1548	The electrification of the socket is unwise for at least three reasons: fossil fuels are still poor for climate when burned abroad, electrification conflicts with other climate-friendly industries, and ultimately it involves a large-scale degradation of nature. First of all, fossil fuels are no longer climate friendly because they are sold and burned abroad. If we are to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions, we cannot rely on coal, oil and gas. It is the clear message from the UN Secretary-General, and Norway is not exempt from this call even though the majority of politicians in this Chamber ignore it. Secondly, we see that electrification conflicts with other industries based on renewable energy. For example, in Eyegarden in my home country, industrial plans that have received tens of millions of Enovas support are put into play because they have to compete with Troll – i.e. the oil and gas field, not a troll factory – about the same force. In this competition, almost always the oil and gas industries run off with the victor, and that's a shame, because if we're going to live on something that's more sustainable in the long term, we need the new industry. We are simply investing completely incorrectly if we are to invest in renewable industrial jobs in the future. Instead, electricity prices are being driven up, and nature is being built down to decorate Norwegian climate accounts. This leads me to the third reason that electrification of the socket is a problem. It requires massive degradation of nature. Everyone in this room knows that we can't do this with sea wind by 2030. It is then the continental hydropower and wind power that are the alternative, and it involves a reduction of valuable nature that actually stores CO 2. So this policy is completely backwards, then it's not a green shift where we replace oil with something else, it's more consumption of everything: more oil, more gas, more hydro, more wind. This is not least underlined by the fact that the Progress Party “Saves” the Wisting field by ensuring a majority for electrification of oil extraction, which is well funded by the oil tax package. It's not good for low power prices, nor is it good for nature. Therefore, Red promotes a separate proposal to stop the electrification, including the Wisting field. Subsidy, we support the proposals of the Progress Party, because literally it also means stopping the Wisting field. Then the Progress Party has a more allegorical interpretation of its own proposal, and it will be on their behalf. With this our proposal is advanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1562	Then the representative Sofie Marhaug has drawn up the proposal that Red Alone is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1567	We are in a global climate crisis, and we must bring down emissions and bring them down quickly. To achieve the stated goal of the Stortingen to cut 50 pst. of the emissions from the socket by 2030 we must have power from land. In fact, force from land is not enough with the projects that are now there to achieve the goal. 27 pst. emissions in Norway in 2020 were from the socket. We're going down to a number of 7 million tons by 2030. With the current power of land projects, we talk about emissions cuts and avoided emissions of 4.9 million tonnes. That's not enough either, so we have to do more. Then the answer is not to go against force from land; then this is about moving forward and doing more to achieve the goals. Because it is clear that we also need to bet on sea wind – it must take part of this – but sea wind is not enough to take those emissions forward by 2030. We must also have power from land. We also need to have energy efficiency improvement on the base to reduce emissions that way. But we also need to think again, and there we have another proposal – to be discussed by the Storting House – where the Left has proposed that we also have to invest in carbon capture and storage from gas power stations on the base, on individual platforms or in area solutions. It is quite simple, because otherwise we do not reach the goal – or not the goal, the decision of the Stortingen on 50 pst. reduction by 2030. It may also help to avoid force from countries where it is difficult because the network situation or the connection you need to land is demanding and difficult. This is not about the fact that it is good for this proposal to be put to the vote, but it is not enough just to point to power from land. We also need to do more to follow the decision of the Storting and to follow up and achieve what is both the goal of the Left and the government's goal of 55 pst. reduction in Norway by 2030. So finally to this question, or the claim, from both the Progress Party and Red that cutting the emissions on the socket is not a climate action. Of course it's a climate action. We have to cut emissions at all stages, and that is not how the emissions we reduce in Norway lead to an increase in emissions elsewhere in Europe. The rest of Europe also cuts its emissions – and does so at a high pace – and we have to do the same here. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1578	Of course, we cannot stop all electrification where it is practically possible. Where the operating horizon is long, fields need to be electrified for climate reasons, but of course without draining our power grid on land for renewable energy. The electrification of oil and gas fields with power from land is a bad idea. First of all, it would lead to pressure on Norwegian nature, and I think less and less are interested in sacrificing near-nature or red-listed species to produce electricity to extract more fossil energy. It will also affect Norwegian consumers struggling with electricity bills and Norwegian industry struggling with profitability. It will not provide investments in new renewable energy production at sea, such as sea wind, and it will not provide investment or technology development in other potential zero-emission solutions. So force from land will be a lost opportunity for conversion. It will also mean huge investments in a fossil infrastructure that we know we need to phase out. The Greens are therefore promoting proposals today to stop electrification by force from land, while at the same time requiring companies to ensure zero emissions from platforms by other means. We need to use the financial muscles in the oil industry to develop Norwegian industry, such as sea wind, batteries, carbon capture and storage and other technologies. At the same time, we propose to require companies to develop new solutions for stable power supply. Finally, I have noticed that the government party of the Centre party is out and public airing uncertainties about Norway's climate targets, among others. because the electrification of the socket becomes challenging. Of course it'll be challenging. There's also full transparency about that. This does not mean that the government can postpone targets or run creative accounting in the climate accounts to Norway. The world's leading climate scientists in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are clear on two things. All countries must now contribute to cutting emissions, rich countries must make an extra contribution. Secondly, we have to stop looking for more oil and gas. We need to act now — otherwise it will become increasingly difficult to tame climate change. So it doesn't get any easier by postponing this job, on the contrary; it just does that other people have to do the job instead of us. After a pandemic that has put most economies back, and in the midst of an energy crisis, a food crisis and a war in Europe, no other country has better prospects for cutting its emissions than Norway. So if we think electrification is required – as it is – then the government must show clear leadership; they must set the necessary requirements, and they must increase efforts to cut more in other sectors. That's why we have climate targets. But I'm going to deal with the suggestions we've been making. President: The representative then addressed the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1591	Never before has it been more meaningful to say that a person wants to develop and not wind up the Norwegian oil and gas industry. But the basis for success is that we are able to achieve the climate goals that are set. 50 pst. By 2030 is the basis for developing an important industry in the future, so we have to maintain it. The main active substance is the ETS and CO2 tax; it works, but in addition we need to electrify Norwegian base. But we can't do it with blindfolds, as some people might think you should. In the Hurdal platform, we are very clear that we will ensure further electrification of Norwegian base, but at the same time we will ensure sufficient access to renewable energy for our industry. That's an important basis. So we do not push the power-processing industry out with the bath water when we are electrifying the Norwegian base. But Norwegian sockets also contain very many important, essential industrial workplaces that are of great importance for our future. One of the things that really matters in connection with the electrification of Norwegian pedestal is that maybe we can achieve three things by doing one thing: it's betting on floating sea winds. We will then be able to cut greenhouse gas emissions over time, and we will create a new industrial dimension of importance for Norway – also in a global perspective, where we can contribute with industrial jobs. So it's quite essential that we succeed in this. When I said that we are not doing it with blindfolds, it is of course because there are great differences between fields and devices in terms of technical possibilities, costs, potential for emission reductions, capacity at the connection point in the power grids on land and, if necessary, the need for action in the power grid. All of this is being evaluated and seen in a context. This is why it is also important to stress that it is important that country-by-country power is assessed on a case-by-case basis – precisely because we want to safeguard the different qualities of accessing renewable energy. We're going to develop Norwegian socket and Norwegian oil and gas industry; we're going to do it in a way where we can achieve our climate goals, because that's the basis for the future, and we're going to do it in a dimension where we can develop new industries through this. And then just finally about proposals from the Red Party, the Progress Party and the Green Party, which will stop the electrification of Norwegian pedestal: it is the beginning of the closure of our oil and gas industry. It's no to Wisting, it's no to NOAKA. But it is in a way also a pre-warning that a emitter sends a permitting warning to nearly 200,000 employees in the oil and gas industry [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1605	I have previously asked the Council of State about the costs of raising the climate targets to 50 pst on a Norwegian base. Unfortunately, the Council of State had no idea. But if we now go in and look at the real reason for electrifying the socket, it's to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The petroleum sector is, as you know, part of the EU allowance market. My question is to the Council of State: How much does Norway have to cut in these emissions in order to maintain our international obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1612	We're going to cut the greenhouse gas emissions by 50 pst. I am very happy that we have a very clear measure of it. Nor do I feel that there is any major discussion about this, except at the Advance Party. It is a little wonder that the cost calculations and assessments that are involved in a promise from 40 pst. until 50 pst., not done. The progress party was in on it – they were in the process of setting that standard for this. Now they create uncertainty by going in a completely different direction because the populist fits the Progress Party to do it, just like the situation is now. Then I'm very happy that a very broad majority in the Biggest stands by those goals. In terms of cost ratios, emissions cuts, etc., there are things about how we position ourselves until 2030, and how the different solutions are incorporated into the system where we bring down the emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1621	Yes, only the council could have answered the question. It has to be that when electrification is so important that you don't care what the cost is, it has to be important. My question to the Council of State is very clear a yes/no question – or it is not. My question to the Council of State is, how much do we have to cut off emissions on a Norwegian base in order to maintain our international obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1626	I am dealing with the goals set in Stortinget, which the Progress Party has supported. A very short time ago, we got a temporary petroleum tax system – just to save jobs, just to develop an important industry in a demanding time. What I'm dealing with is cutting 50 pst. As for the costs of electrification, it would be a bit speculative if I were to hose out a number now. We will calculate the cost of each project when it is submitted to Stortinget, or when the individual projects are to be approved. As I said very clearly, there are very different fields that may be electrified. We have to evaluate each field in each case. It's doing it in a neat way, a proper way and a credible way, so that we avoid the negative consequences of electrification, for example. one shifts the power-processing industry out of the country. But what the Progress Party is now doing is pushing the future of the Norwegian oil and gas industry into an uncertainty that this industry does not deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1633	There was a lot of answers to everything other than what I asked for. I can answer for the Council of State that there is no requirement for Norway to cut a single tonne on a Norwegian base, and I think the Council of State is painfully aware of that. Just to go a little further: one has today been able to read about the wish of Marit Arnstad to postpone Norwegian climate targets, then with the background that it is better to postpone them than to use the power of the mainland to electrify the socket. As we know, the Hurdal platform says that the base should be electrified with sea wind, and as we also know, sea wind will not be ready for this until after 2030. Then there is the question: What commitment from the Hurdal platform is it the State Council will give priority to breaking in on this matter – not electrifying the socket or using power from land to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1643	I must honestly admit that I am very amazed at the Advancement Party. There is a very clear target set by a broad majority in Stortinget that we should cut the greenhouse gas emissions on Norwegian base by 50 pst by 2030. That was the proposal for the Progress Party to vote in favour. That is my goal, and I think it is a good guide for what we should do to ensure that the oil and gas industry gets a development and not a winding-up. In the case of sea wind, especially liquid sea wind, three conditions are essential. One is that we get new power. The second is that we get a new industry. The third is that we get reduced greenhouse gas emissions. In view of the current situation, I believe that the technology development associated with liquid sea winds will speed up. The government has now decided to do so with qualitative criteria in the north of Utsira, precisely to support an industrial development that will have a major impact on Norwegian industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1650	We have had a debate on Norwegian climate objectives, and I have a very simple question for the Council of State. It is whether he can confirm that the government’s climate target – as set out in the Hurdal platform – is that Norway should cut its emissions by 55 pst. by 2030 and that it is not appropriate to push on these climate targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1655	Yes, the goals of the Hurdal platform are firm. We're going to cut 55 pst. in the economies, and we're going to cut 50 pst. on Norwegian pedestal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1660	The state councils talked about permitting alerts. I believe large parts of the mainland industry, not least in the West, fear permeation warnings with the electrification plans that are now available, for example. connected to such a force-intensive field as Troll. Does the Council of State believe that it is possible to electrify Troll by 2030 without doing so at the expense of existing and new industries in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1665	Unlike Red, this government has an ambition to expand more renewable energy in the future. We're going to upgrade our hydropower. We're going to start onshore wind power in a situation where we get the municipalities with us, not against us, and we're going to expand significant amounts of sea wind. This contrasts with Red's game program, which is basically opposite most. In this way, by developing adequate access to industry, we are involved in ensuring that workers can get up in the morning and be confident that they have a job to do, precisely because there is an important input in the future. For the nearly 200,000 employees working in the oil and gas industry too, it will be quite essential that we be able to develop that industry into a future perspective. Not least in view of the cruel image that is now taking place in Europe, the oil and gas industry will be of great importance for the future. I'm very surprised that Red looked at those degrees turning my back on those industrial workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1670	Attack is the best defense, and the council didn't answer my question, so I repeat it. Does the Council of State believe that it is possible to electrify Troll by 2030 without doing so at the expense of existing and new industries in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1675	We're going to electrify the socket and process each aspect based on the complexity of each project. I have made that very clear in my introduction. We're going to follow it up in such a way that we don't push power-processing industry or other business out of the country. Then we have to make sure that we are able to expand more renewable energy in the Norwegian system, so that's what's the input for the different jobs around the country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1680	It is very good that the Council of State sticks to the decision to reduce by 50 pst. by 2030. There's also something a state council has to do. It is also good to insist that we need power from land, and that one from the Council of State also troubles the difficult projects. We need, as I said also in my post, power from land, we need energy savings, and we need to drive forward wind power – both in the Southern North Sea and with individual projects like Hywind Tampen that we can go further. But we also need to look at a solution with carbon capture and storage from gas power plants on the base, simply for the calculation to go up. We need to reduce emissions by 6.2 million tonnes from 2020 in order to achieve the 50 pst target. reduction, but the projects that are now too forceful from land will not be enough. So my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council also look at carbon capture and storage projects on the socket from gas power plants as an important part of the solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1687	I think the combination of different technological solutions to meet our climate obligations is the right way of thinking, so I'm not going to say anything more concrete about carbon capture and storage directly on the base in relation to what's going on there. But we want to be clear that we want to develop carbon capture and storage projects and that technology, and then it's also exciting to think about it in the direction of our oil and gas installations. But we have a main track where we now, through quotas and CO2 prices, get high costs that motivate emission cuts, and which I think stimulate technology development in the positive direction of our oil and gas industry. So this is by force from countries that we have to do, but in such a way that we see the whole of it and make sure that we do not make decisions where we push other types of business away from us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1697	The climate and nature crisis is clearly missing ‘quick fixes’, and it is one of the challenges that we are debating here today. I am pleased that the Council of State is clear that the emission target for the 50 pst socket. by 2030 it shall remain in place. Nevertheless, I believe that the ambitions of the Council of State on the sea wind can stand in the way of starting the reasoning on electrifying by force from land and then starting to look at other solutions, instead of starting the reasoning that we should have zero emissions on Norwegian soil, and how we can achieve the best possible. So my question to the Council of State is: how can one prevent the electrification of the socket by force from land from standing in the way of technology development and other incentives for development in carbon capture and storage, battery technology and sea wind, and ensure that the development of the sea wind occurs where we need renewable energy production to actually happen, and is wired to where we need the power to be passed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1704	My experience, at least in the short time I have been the Council of State – but I already know the field – is that there is considerable impatience and a significant desire in the Norwegian industry to participate in developing the opportunities that lie there, especially linked to liquid sea winds. It's a great opportunity, and I feel that the industry is very ready to do big tasks, start technology development and be able to solve it. So I think it's fine to reconcile the inequalities in a good way, so that one ensures both the development and development of more renewable power that we need, related to the upgrading of hydropower, wind power, etc., but also has a significant investment in liquid sea wind as a major industrial opportunity in Norway. So I don't think there's any contradictions here, I think on the contrary that the competences here complement each other and that together give new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1712	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1717	Climate debates in the main hall do not use to be the most nuanced I attend. It uses to be debates that are largely about goals. It is not so much about instruments and even less about the dilemmas that we face – a bit so today. Let me make a statement once and for all: I hope we reach the 2030 targets. I want us to achieve the 2030 targets. If you could stop trying to make proxy debates about it, it would have been nice. Then we can discuss it from there. But I'm a little worried about whether we're going to reach them. It is a concern I believe should be addressed now, not in 2027, because if we address those concerns in 2027, it is too late. The debate on the dilemmas and challenges of achieving the objectives must be achieved. I very much agree with the representative Sivertsen Næss that electrification should not be at the expense of the mainland industry, and that much also needs to be electrified by sea wind. I think that's a reasonable starting point, but then we also have to look at some of the dilemmas we're facing right now. One of them is that the higher we put the CO 2 tax on the base, the easier it is to count the oil companies home that one should electrify from land. It's a challenge for us, because there must be a correlation between the desire to count home that and the effort we want on sea wind, so that we don't burden the mainland with the entire electrification. The second dilemma is: I do not know how far it will be in the years to come – to the representative Trellevik – strong enough grid and good enough power supply in South Norway that one can actually electrify large fields. I'm a little bit unsure of that. The third option I've mentioned is, as I say, that we can't sit in 2027 and address the dilemma, we have to do it now. I recognise that different parties in this Chamber have different objectives in climate policy and different objectives for the oil industry. But the parties that want to develop and not liquidate the oil industry and the oil and gas industries, those who think so, should at least be able to look at the various dilemmas. The elephant in the room, to which the representative Halleland refers, is the lack of willingness to see the dilemmas. The party of progress proves it emphatically here today. They claim that they are totally opposed to electrification from land, but they want it anyway in the Wisting field. That's exactly what a dilemma is in practice. As for the representative Haltbrecken, he accuses the Progress Party of symbol politics, but there is an equal amount of symbol policy from both sides, from both the Progress Party and the SV. Here, there is less need for symbolism policies and more use for real policy and willingness to see the various difficult balances we are going to go through.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1735	Also, I want to mention the decision that was made in this room in the summer of 2020, where the tax package was dealt with, and where you went in to adjust the climate targets and go from 40 to 50 pst. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian cap. Here, too, was the Progress Party, as it is said. Now it is estimated that there are three projects that will deliver the PUD in 2022, within these temporary rules, that have been related to the Storting decision of 50 pst. greenhouse gas emission saving from the cap in 2030. My question is whether the Progress Party is willing to sacrifice these three projects. Now we've heard that OWisting should be able to do well, but here there are also two other projects, projects that have matured by force from land, precisely on the basis of the Storting decision. To start changing these projects now would lead to considerable delays, and they would not be able to submit a PUD within the temporary rules. In fact, we're talking about about about 80,000 annual works, investments of almost 150 billion. kr, which will provide great value creation throughout the country and secure revenue to the state, not least, and our common well-being, as well as that it will also give us muscles to be able to invest even more in renewables. Is it that this Progress Party believes is predictable framework conditions, to change in such a short time? I also wanted to comment on the Right proposal, which in itself is a good proposal, but we do not see that we need to ask the government to do something that the government is already doing today. So that's why we don't support that proposal. In the case of the Red and the Advance Party's estimate of the cost of electrifying the base, they have indicated about 50 billion. kr, which is a reference to Equinor. Well, then it's important to take into account that maybe it's about where you get increased income too, in that order of magnitude, as a result of releasing gas. So here it's important to bring all the sides of a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1748	It's fascinating to hear talk about real politics and reality orientation here, because that's exactly what this is. That's why we're about to stop electrification of the socket. The power situation in Norway and Europe is completely different. It has fully illustrated the electricity prices of the last six months, and it doesn't seem to be getting any better. As we said in the committee, we say no to further electrification of Norwegian socket as a climate action. But there are, of course, exceptions, such as the Wisting field, that need power from land because there are not enough instances of propellant gas, and there is a surplus of power. Otherwise, electrification of the socket as a climate action is expensive, and it's pointless symbolism policy. Electricity is going to require as much power as the entire Oslo consumer, and the entire Norwegian power surplus is going to disappear. In the case of new power-intensive industries, Western countries have been mentioned. Westland is hit hardest, because that's where the cables will go to the oil installations. New projects that will stop – green energy-intensive industrial efforts will not take place there. If you care about the global climate, electrification of the socket is the last thing you want. It's moving emissions, it's not cutting. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has repeatedly confirmed that there are minimal climate gains in this. Those who are most reliant on power from land should admit that there is greening of Norwegian oil and gas in order to sell Norwegian oil and gas with a good conscience. The emissions are out of sight and out of mind. Had it not given higher electricity bill for households and businesses, it would have made sense – then we should also have bought it. But this is a major disadvantage to the Norwegian power - consuming industry that exported 166 billion. kr in 2021, and now is in great danger of having to scale, fly out or the like. The party of progress is a party for people most and business. That is why we say no to electrification and for the same reason we want to reduce the emission requirements for Norwegian oil and gas back to 40 pst. We want the power we have and the power surplus we have in Norway to benefit Norwegian industry and new adventures. There should also be a surplus of power there that makes sure that we have reasonable and reasonable electricity prices here in the country. If other representatives think that the prices we have now are reasonable and viable, this is a measure they want to welcome. But it will cause great inconvenience, and it says no to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1763	The representative of Halleland mentioned in his post that it costs 50 billion. kr to electrify the Norwegian socket, and he was also displeased with the answer he received from the Council of State. However, Equinor told the annual conference of Norwegian oil and gas that the alternative to electrifying the socket and using 50 billion dollars. kr is more expensive. For Equinor's part, it'll cost $60 billion. kr. only in the purchase of allowances until 2040, and the cost of CO 2 here in the country is far from the point of view of the Progress Party. They also disregard the fact that the gas we use on the socket today for gas production is approximately. 4.4 pst. by our gas. Rather, we can export it to Europe, and there are new billions of income to society. And that too the Progress Party looks all the way away from it. The representative Halleland mentions that the Johan Sverdrup field runs off with power on the Haugaland. Johan Sverdrup was fully developed on March 8th this year. They've got their power. What is happening on the Haugalandet now, with the planning of a new 420 kV line, is not due to the need for Johan Sverdrup. Johan Sverdrup has got his needs met. Johan Sverdrup has only 0,17 kg of CO 2 emissions per barrel produced. It's 100 times lower than the world average. There is no doubt that the world needs Norwegian oil and gas production to meet the climate challenges. That's what IEA says. The gas being exported has significantly lower average emissions in the EU, only half of the emissions, than when used for power generation on the socket. This is because the efficiency of use in the EU is significantly better than on the base. Electrification of the socket is good for the environment, and the Norwegian socket reduces emissions both locally and globally. The Norwegian socket takes us into the renewable future in Europe, secures thousands of Norwegian jobs and will contribute strongly to the Norwegian economy for many, many years to come. It is important to electrify the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1782	It won't be possible from today's image to achieve an ejection shot without electrifying the socket. Electrification of the socket is a measure that will cut emissions in Norway, but also globally. It is our watch, and we must take this responsibility, for we must and must cut 55 pst. by our release by 2030. Cutting emissions will give climate effect. This is research-based information. Electrification of the socket will also create and create jobs today. It is important for the actors on the Norwegian base to have a good framework. We cannot change known actions that will reduce emissions, because someone experiences becoming unpopular. After all, we have a solid responsibility for this globe we live on, and for the next generations. We need to use today's tools to reach our climate targets. We're going to reach the climate measure, and we don't have time to lose. Red has an image of measures that at a time we don't live in. The energy needs of individuals and industry are enormous today. This is going to be green energy and not fossil. We have to electrify at all stages, including on the base, while cutting over-exploitation. The party refuses to take on board the fact that we are in a climate crisis and that we need to have measures that cut emissions. Or does the Progress Party have other measures to achieve the climate targets? The common denominator is that the proposals for decisions from the Red Party and the Advance Party will not lead us to reach our climate measurement, which is actually to cut 55 pst. by our release by 2030. Electrification is today's solution to the challenges we face. Norway has its leaders in the value-creating and employment industry, and Norway must also be in the future, by electrifying and by pure force. It's Norway that has to show way and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1793	Then there will be a break in case no. 13 to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1805	The size then goes to voting on case No. Case No. 2-12 and Case No. 20 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1814	Case No. 2–6 are the second time legal proceedings and involve legislative acts 52 up to and including 56. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1849	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister's foreign policy statement be annexed to the minutes. – It's a co-conspirator's confession.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1880	During the debate, Mr Björn Moxnes has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left and Red Parties. Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to carry out an evaluation in an appropriate form of Norway’s contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1897	Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of Norway’s contribution to the anti-ISIL coalition in an appropriate form before the end of the Norwegian military effort.’; The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1921	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1940	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kathy Lie on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red and Left proposal No 2, from Kathy Lie on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide an assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of ratifying the Third Additional Protocol to the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, based on the cases already dealt with by the United Nations Children’s Committee. The investigation shall assess the child’s best interests in relation to the issue of ratification and shall provide the size of the child during 2022.’;» Red, Left, Green and Christian People's Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1966	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the ratification of the Third Additional Protocol to the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, thereby ensuring that Norway participates in the Individual Complaints Scheme under the Convention on the Rights of the Child.’ The Christian People’s Party has every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e1990	The Socialist Left Party, Red, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2009	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up an independent aid commission. Proposals for a mandate and composition of the Commission shall be submitted to the Grand Duchy in advance of the reduction.’.» Alternatively, the proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2067	The President proposes that the draft representative be sent to the Judicial Committee. The representative Hans Andreas Limi has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2074	The Progress Party proposes that Document 8:162 S for 2021-2022, concerning proposals for the introduction of temporary border control, be dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2079	Alternatively, the proposal from the President that the proposal for a representative be sent to the Committee on Justice and the proposal from the Progress Party will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2112	The size then goes back to the examination of the case no. 13 on today's map, and the next speaker is Terje Halleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2117	There are some posts coming from this pulpit, which I'm a little bit uncertain about whether we're going to take seriously. When there are representatives from the West who have not yet discovered that we have come into a new power situation, which represents the region with the greatest power shortage for business, one must wonder what kind of entrance you have. I know that the mountain region had a power demand in 2019 of 600 MW. Today it's 3,000 MW. Nevertheless, the representative is up here noticing the world's things, no problems in the power situation of his own business. In the same run, he says that the Haugaland doesn't need any more power. They've got their power and don't need any more, because Sverdrup is supplied. Then I can inform the representative that we would like to have a little more business. It is the emerging business world, the new business world, that is at work today and has no power. At the same time, he addresses his concerns about Equinor and the costs that the company will incur if they are not allowed to electrify. Then I want to tell him that my concern for society is further on today's electricity prices for consumers and consumers and the prices experienced by ordinary business, not framework conditions and future bills to Equinor. Let me also say a little bit about Wisting. It is a desire to electrify the socket, which is based on a desire to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on Norwegian base. When the Progress Party is opposed to electrifying the socket forcefully from land as a climate action, there are many reasons for it, and I have mentioned it earlier, but it is costly, it is devastating for new industrialisation on land, it provides increased power prices, and it has a limited impact on greenhouse gas emissions. Wisting, on the other hand, does not have enough gas to operate the turbines itself over its lifetime, and the project will not be realized without power from land. So it has nothing to do with climate, it's about industrial development. We in the Progress Party are very positive about this, especially in the Barents Sea, where we want more establishment. And for every establishment we get, it'll be easier for the next one to establish. This is an important project in an important area on which the Progress Party cheers. And finally, if I reach it, a little bit about securing the majority of the tax package for the petroleum industry, as we did in a difficult time. In retrospect, it has been shown that the tax package came in just the right time and was a positive grip. But now, when we look at some areas of the changes that have occurred since that tax package was introduced, we should look at the possibility of going back on some of the requirements, and the requirements that the Progress Party wants to go back on are to increase the industry's target from 40 to 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2126	When you hear the debate here today, a few impressions can be that now the mainland is going to be tapped for electricity, and that the whole base is going to be electrified. It's with respect to not reporting correctly. The electrification of all devices on a Norwegian base with power from land is neither realistic nor relevant. Very familiar, there are also no parties in this room that have taken the floor for that very thing. We know that new electrification projects depend on the availability of capacity on land. New electrification projects should therefore be linked to areas where there is a strong network and good supply of power. Electrification by force from land is therefore not an appropriate solution everywhere, but must be assessed from project to project. This case is probably an example of when the extremes of Norwegian policy come together. The Red Party and the Advance Party stand together, despite trying to create the impression that they are bitter opponents. But we see that they agree on a case-by-case basis. Once again, as one of our co-representatives has mentioned as a slow dance between Listhaug and Moxnes, there is absolute reason to be skeptical. In line with the Paris Agreement, Norway has committed itself to national emission reductions. Energy from offshore gas turbines causes a significant proportion of Norway’s emissions — as much as 5 million tonnes of CO 2. If Norway is to meet its obligations, we are therefore completely dependent on the Norwegian base taking part in that responsibility. Very well known, Red is behind Norway's commitments in the Paris Agreement, and the Progress Party has voted to adjust the climate target for the base from 40 p.m. to 50 pst. cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, although today we see that they will not accept that particular point. As far as I can see, neither the Advance Party nor Red have submitted an alternative plan to release emissions on the base if all electrification projects are stopped. Without an alternative plan, it is difficult to imagine that Norway will meet its commitments without further cutbacks from the mainland industry. The question of the Progress Party and Red will then be whether they will strengthen the requirement for emissions cuts, for example: for the power-intensive industry such as the smelting plant in Saudi Arabia or the aluminium plant in Karmøy. In my opinion, that would be a very bad idea. Finally, Equinor has announced that the Wisting field can only be realized by force from land, because there is not enough gas to supply the field with force. The proposals of the Advance Party in this matter, as it is designed, could put the whole expansion of the Wisting field and thousands of jobs to the fore.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2144	It is no surprise that some parties who want a controlled closure of Norwegian oil and gas production are also opposed to electrification of the base, but we, who are to develop and not liquidate Norwegian base, must have two tanks in our head at the same time. Yeah, it's about real policy. It's not about idealism. It's about our competitiveness. We know that the climate requirements set by the EU in the future, including: Through taxonomy, will become much, much tighter. At the same time, in Norway, we have ambitions to continue exporting natural gas to Europe and converting natural gas into blue hydrogen, which is a zero-emission energy carrier that will be important for the green shift in Europe. But if we're going to sell it in 10 years, or in 20 years, we're actually going to have to produce the lowest possible emissions. No one here is proposing to electrify the entire base with power from land. Right, as I said, we want to evaluate each project and see it in the context of diet and power availability, while at the same time working on emission-free power solutions on the base. Sea wind is one thing, carbon capture and storage is something else. But the option to electrify several platforms now, if we are to achieve the climate targets – and I stress it – is to close fields early. And at least it's a costly climate action and a wrong recipe in the situation Europe is in now. I think it is a bit striking that in this debate neither the Red Party nor the Advance Party are in the vicinity of showing how they can achieve the climate goals without electrifying some fields on the base. If these emissions are to come in other sectors, e.g. the transport sector or the agricultural sector, it could have major consequences that are not being discussed today, and it could be very invasive for people. Alternatively, you can do what the Central Party did yesterday, namely to doubt whether Norway should stick to our climate goals in 2030, because that is what the representative Arnstad did – and it is mildly alarming. Of course, we should have a debate on dilemmas and solutions, and that debate may well be prejudiced, as Mr Myhrvold wishes. The right is completely free of prejudices when we say that climate challenges are demanding, that it will not be easier in the future and that an important solution for industry to achieve climate targets is more renewable power generation and the development of more networks. And the concern of the representative Arnstad would not have had to be so great if the government had now set a higher rate of grid expansion, but not least to expand more renewable power – whether it is land wind with local acceptance, hydropower, or a significantly greater investment in sea wind than the halved and unprofitable investment in Southern North Sea II. The green-power surplus is still to be a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry, and we are to achieve the climate objectives. And yes, it's about real-world politics – and it's a little surprising that the Center Party didn't know it until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2159	Today, we have been given the argument that it is not a climate action to phase fossil energy out on the renewable energy base. SV will do it with sea wind, and of course it is a climate action. If that argument from those who believe that this is not a climate change measure was correct, my bicycle trip to Stortinget today had no significance in relation to whether I took the trip with a diesel car instead. Nor does it matter that we arrange for people to ride and ride, take a bus and a tram, instead of driving each of their own private cars. If that argument were correct, that gasoline and that diesel these people were saving would just be used by someone else. And if that argument were correct, we could also only build highly polluting gas power plants on land in Norway. But of course there is something that creates increased emissions and gives a worse situation. And of course, cutting emissions from Norway's largest polluter is climate action. I also want to demand the honesty of those who do not want to cut the emissions of oil companies in today's production. Where, then, are they going to take the cuts in order for Norway to achieve its international climate objectives? Are we going to put agriculture down in Norway? That's a bad idea. Should we absolutely ban all driving fossil cars? I don't think that's a good idea either. Or are we going to lay down large parts of the Norwegian mainland industry? I think that's a stupid idea, too. But I hope we can get an answer on how those parties want to meet Norway's climate goals. I am to say no to all new search activities and all new production permits on the Norwegian base. We have put forward proposals on this both today and earlier, but we must recognise that it does not cut emissions tomorrow. It only cuts emissions after 2030. And we are in a serious situation: we have to cut emissions now! And then I want those parties that don't want to cut emissions from production on the base today to come up here and tell us how they're going to achieve their climate goals instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2170	It is no secret that there are shared opinions about electrification also in the Right. Some states are even critical, myself included. But I can live well with the proposal that has been made today by the Right. I think it makes sense, and after hearing this debate, I don't understand why no more parties support it. The Minister of Energy has even said that they should evaluate each project separately, and so does the Centre Party. I would also like to say that the Central Party parliamentary leader made a good contribution today, an honest speech on this debate. And it's not as simple as it sounds. So I am skeptical about electrification of Norwegian pedestal completely unconditionally. There are many things that do not come to light in this debate. It is said that one has to electrify to cut emissions. What about Ekofisk? Ekofisk has cut over 50 pst. without electrifying anything, and they shall continue to cut. They're going to build their own windmills to produce their own power. Ekofisk has got a lot without electrifying any things from land, and they're going to keep doing it. It is said that this is a climate action, but it is not that easy to show it on a global scale. In fact, it is not scientifically documented – as the representative Merkesdal says – that this has a global climate impact. Of course it has a local effect, but global? No, no, no. Show me the proof of that. Castberg is now being expanded by 60 pst. energy effect on the generator there. 60 pst. is at the level of what one gets out of the energy when a generating gas power plant in thermal power plants. What about the stress loss you experience to the socket? Only on Sverdrup is it 10 pst. of the energy emitted, which disappears only. On Wisting there was 20 pst. voltage loss. It's energy that just disappears. It's not to fire the crows, but for others who grow in the sea. Another unfortunate point that has not been made in the debate is this: the oil industry can buy power on long-term contracts under the petroleum tax regime. That means they get to subtract 78 pst. of the costs. They have a fantastic competitive advantage when they are going to compete for power contracts in competition with other industries. When the large number is so clear that electrification is the solution, it will of course tell the industry that it is not wise to look for other solutions, so I am concerned that we also point to the other solutions. But we have to look up electrification to the supply of power. And here my colleague Ove Trellevik has put a cable into the debate: there is not enough power for Haugaland. We need to get the 420 kilovolts out to the Haugaland, otherwise we won't have any other industrial establishment. Much of the power has disappeared to Sverdrup, and I am not particularly pleased about that. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2185	I repeat that cutting emissions on the socket is a climate action, and it gives a global effect. If we're going to cut emissions, we're going to have to cut emissions from all fossil energy sources, even during production. It gives a global climate effect, there can be no doubt about it. I actually took the floor because the representative Arnstad was worried that we were going to get to 2027 and it turns out that we haven't achieved the climate target of reducing emissions by 50 pst. on the base, and there is a concern that there is every reason to do so. Now in this Chamber, the Progress Party and Red do not want us to achieve this goal. The SV and the Green Party believe we should do it with sea wind, we will not do that. It's important to back up under sea wind, it's part of the solution, but one's not going to cut emissions by 50 pst. by 2030 only with sea wind. It is also a concern that the power-from-country projects we have are not enough to cut emissions by 50 pst. by 2030. So that government has to do to achieve that goal, of course, is to put a plan for that. Then they have to calculate how much force we can take from land, how much we can have on the sea wind, how much one can take with energy saving measures, and how much carbon capture and storage from the gas power plants on the base is necessary. 6.2 million. We're going down by 2030. Carbon capture and storage on the base is known technology, it's Norwegian companies that have and can use and develop the technology, but it requires a plan for how we're going to achieve it. Then the government has to use the PUDs that are coming, to make demands. You have to make demands on the industry as well. You have to have clearer orders with the ownership we have in Petoro in order for us to achieve the goal of reaching 50 pst. reduction by 2030. The fact that achieving the targets is demanding is not a reason to withdraw and say that we should not use force from land. Power from land is absolutely necessary. That it's demanding, means that we need to put in a bigger effort to achieve the goal of cutting 50 pst. by 2030. Then all the elements, including carbon capture and storage, must be part of it. And finally: Wisting – it’s far north, power from land will take the entire power surplus in Troms and Finnmark, and it’s just oil. If there's one thing we don't need to build out and give permission to, it's Wisting – in the climate situation that's close. So we have to cut emissions much faster, we have to end up with fossil energy sources, and what we have to do first is, of course, oil. This is like opening a coal plant or a coal mine in Norway. We can't do that, and we can't open this either.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2198	What is important here is that the power and money can be used significantly better on measures other than electrification of the base. One would think that as much cut per penny as possible was what you wanted, not the most possible use of money on grand measures in Norway, because that is what you add up to. The representative Merkesdal doesn't even believe in his own department. Several times on written and oral questions they have answered, as is true, that the effect of electrification of the socket will be limited for a long time. Yes, it will provide local, national measures, but on a global scale, we are moving emissions from Norway to Europe. The planned electrification measures are in the range of 15 TWh. It's almost as much power as we exported through the power cable for the whole of last year. There's almost as much power as Oslo consumes, there's a lot of power that we could use for other powerful industries, either green or historic. Norwegian commitments notified to the EU and Paris with oil sector emissions are not 50 pst, it is 40 pst. 50 pst. is a specific Norwegian requirement which has not been notified further. Yeah, we can cut it. Most of that power comes from Western Europe, that's a fact, that's where the oil installations are, and Western countries will have a huge competitive disadvantage in the future and will be fed off with a power shortage. Nor can sea wind operate these oil installations alone, as sea wind does not produce electricity all the time, because it does not blow evenly all the time. So those who are going to electrify, also have to connect to land. There you should be honest enough to say. So it's been about our climate plan, the climate plan of the Progress Party. VG said a few weeks ago that it was the best climate plan, because it had realism in it. We're on the order to count on the forest, we're on the order to use quota purchases, we're on the order to have sensible, effective climate targets – not expensive symbol policies, like the rest. Emissions are increasing in the EU, and due to the Ukraine war they are going to increase even more. We're going to phase out the gas, and it's not doing it in a hand turn. Norwegian gas exports last year were approx. 1500 TWh, all Norwegian electricity exports were 17 TWh. Now the EU is to phase out 2,000 TWh with Russian gas. In the short term, LNG is produced with higher footprints, coal and other polluting sources. A little more realism in the debate would have been preferable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2211	The last time I checked, did not produce bicycles oil and gas. That is what is part of the criticism of the oil and gas industry, that it produces oil and gas, which is not climate friendly. I think the Advance Party is liberating honestly when they say that the Wisting field is not a climate action, because the Wisting field is not a climate action. Instead, we prefer to extend the oil age by expanding more and electrifying these new fields. Red does not want to search for more oil and gas, and we do not want to open new TFO areas. We want to withdraw the last concession rounds. It's part of our climate policy. But today we are actually discussing electrification of the socket. In order for the transition from an oil-based economy not to be a transition to mass unemployment, we cannot put the entire mainland industry in jeopardy. I have been in many power debates this winter, and then a reminder is that we are going towards a power loss. According to Statnett, we're already doing it in 2026. We can discuss those numbers – I think they're questionable – but it's up to us, no matter how we turn around and turn around, along with what kind of policy we're taking. And if we're going to electrify the socket, we might be going towards a power loss. Therefore, the mainland power-generating industry is exposed to competition from the oil and gas industries and may lose access to renewable energy. The representative Kalsås of the Workers' Party believed that Rødt's policy threatens the mainland industry and the power-generating production in Karmøy and Sauda. It's completely wrong. It's electrification of the base that threatens the mainland industry. Today we export clean energy in solid form. It is the industry that we have built up for over 100 years in Norway, which is now exposed to fierce competition from both European electricity prices and an electrification project that is at the expense of the power that that industry could otherwise have used. Then we also gamble with workplaces. I think it's strange that you can't be honest that the workplaces you waste are not jobs related to the petroleum sector; there are jobs related to the power-processing industry. That's the one we play when we prioritise electrifying the socket.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2222	This is a debate The Stortinget has had for ten years, but the speech points have changed so much. But it is a debate which has been renewed in connection with the reorientation of the one government party this week. The representative Arnstad was up here and said it's better to have a discussion about these considerations now than in 2027. I could agree on that, but it might have been even better if the Center Party and Arnstad had reflected on this and discussed it in 2020, when they voted to cut 50 pst. by emissions from Norwegian Socket, or last year, when they supported the Norwegian Climate Goal, or in the fall, when they entered a government platform from a government they participated in, where it says that one should take all cuts in the quota-free sector in Norway, or in the budget they make in the fall, where they were some with SV to increase the CO 2 charges for the socket even more in order to get cheaper petrol and diesel and lower CO 2 tax increases there. But no, then there was certainly no need for reflection or honest debate. Then only voted for one. So standing here today – not ten years later, but a few months later – and making it look like a self is more honest and more reflected than others, I won't let myself be impressed. The reflected is to reflect on things before a vote for them, not afterwards. What we see from many people here today is after-school time, or actually ‘after-school’, because it makes sense to cut off the socket – of course it is. We are going to reduce Norwegian emissions sharply over the years to come, and we are going to change. Is it reasonable, then, that the largest emission source we have should not do that? And what's there really talking about when you say you shouldn't? There will be extensive cuts on the socket by paying for their emissions by increasing the CO 2 charge in the future, on the same line as for everyone else. So if you really think it's one thing to say here, there's a call for the oil and gas sector to get lower CO 2 tax than others, that they don't have to pay for their emissions, so that they don't have to cut them through either sea wind, shore-stream electrification, CCS, an island measure, or one of the other measures you can take to cut out the socket. There is a lot of other things involved in the debate. These include: a part of the Progress Party and the Center Party that talks about starting to count forests in another way, which is only a code word to weaken the Norwegian climate target. I want to say it of course, but I still say it: the climate target that Norway has notified to the United Nations, and which this big business has supported, is not something the size can only start to weaken again. It's breaking the Paris Agreement. A specific target will be set, and Norway will choose it itself, but once you have entered it, you can't weaken it again. That is quite clear from the Paris agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2248	To the representative Rotevatn: he doesn't have to try to assign the centre party opinions we don't have. Of course, it makes sense to cut emissions on the base, and the centre party has not claimed anything else either. What we have requested is a more nuanced debate and nuance in terms of how we will achieve those objectives. Of course, we also want to achieve the goal of 50 pst. Cut on the base. Unfortunately, this shows that although the broad majority here still support that objective, some people show little willingness to look over the edge of the ditch I mentioned instead, despite major dilemmas in this matter. The representatives of both the Green Party, the Left and, more importantly, the Red have some very good answers on a matter that has considerable nuances and dilemmas. The Halleland of the Progress Party also shows in his first post that he does not see the shades, but requires yes- and no-answers when he tries to ridicule the efforts of the Centre Party to draw up the dilemmas in the debate. This debate is not black and white. Of course, further large-scale shore-stream electrification will have adverse consequences for the mainland industry in isolation, but this issue cannot be seen in isolation. What we have to take with us is how electrification is going to happen, because we've said that it's going to happen primarily through sea wind or other technology or power generation on and in connection with the base. It will have more pages: new jobs, more export opportunities, more power. In addition, as the representative of Elvesuen also said, we can use local capture and storage on the base. We're already doing that on Sleipner, so that's absolutely right. However, it is worrying when the same representative does not problem how the mainland industry, by unilateral electrification from land, is in danger of being squeezed out and moved to land with a blend of power that is considerably more grey than the Norwegian, due to high electricity prices and, in the worst case, a lack of power. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde believes that the centre party is wrong in its argument when we call for a nuanced debate. I note that this debate also reveals that there is an internal debate in the Right on the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2261	Here gets a compliment from one of the Right Representatives and the mouth of another Right Representative; it's a bit like it uses to be, so I think we're going to live well with it. The representative Rotevatn has largely rhetorical sarcasm to join the Center Party, and he must be allowed to do that. And we'll take that with a little bit of smile and low shoulders. But I think maybe he can stay too good to try to assign the Center Party things we don't stand for. We hope and we want to achieve the Norwegian climate target, and we are on the verge of doing so. We believe that discharges on the base must be cut; it is a nobrain. But what we're saying then is that not all electrification of the base can happen from land. Much of it must happen by sea wind. That's when we have to ask the question: are we going to make it – do we have enough time? We should have come further with sea wind, but the energy message provided by the Right and Left have not even praised the socio-economic effects of sea wind for petroleum installations. I think that's a shame. It's possible it's because they've been so focused on hybrid cables that they're not that many other possibilities, but I think it's a shame, because we have to get started with that. The representative Haltbrecken said that we should impose on the oil companies. I have more faith in dialogue with the oil companies; I think it would actually be possible to have a good dialogue with the oil industry on how we can develop sea winds related to petroleum installations. I think it would be an important contribution, and I hope it will be possible to make it by 2030 – but we also have to ask ourselves what we're doing if we can't do it. Is it possible for us to set even more speed in the sea wind development than it is today? Or are the other ways we can do it? I fully agree with the representative of Elvesuen that energy efficiency and new power generation on land are also important contributions. And then I think it's a little bad that we can't include more related to forest than what we do in Norway in the Norwegian climate scheme. I believe that reporting a weaker forest target to the UN than the EU may be the only maritime action I have ever seen the representative Rotevatn perform towards the EU. A fundamental disagreement that remains in this matter – and we just have to live with it, I think – is that we have different views about the oil and gas business. Someone wants a more or less quick winding of it, others don't want it. The centre batch will not reduce the oil and gas activities. We believe that reducing Norwegian oil and gas activities today, and probably also in the years to come, is asking for coal-fired power stations in Europe to be fired again. That is why, in a way, what Mr Marhaug's representative says is that Wisting is not a climate action. Wisting is an oil field – it is an important oil field for production on the world market, and it is also important industrial and employment for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2270	It was once Norwegian policy was built on realism, created by realistic politicians who could actually count. It looks like those arithmetic properties aren't necessarily as present in today's political picture. It's about what I would call a little creative bill with imaginary numbers when you're going to justify and implement a policy that will cost taxpayers a minimum of 50 billion. kr, and for which Norwegian consumers, Norwegian households, Norwegian industry and Norwegian industry have to pay for decades to come, in the form of higher power prices and lower economy. It's because you've been able to do the math that you're assuming that electrifying Norwegian cap will somehow reduce climate emissions. Everyone knows that's not right. Everyone knows that global CO2 emissions will be exactly the same; it's about which accounts you put the figures on, whether they're in Norwegian or in German. If you take the same output into account, it's relatively uninteresting. All the time I suppose it is believed that the climate challenge is a global issue, it is relatively uninteresting whether emissions occur on Norwegian soil or occur in Germany. But that's where Norwegian policy is at the moment. I think it's strange, I think it's regrettable – and I think the realism that we had in the past should be demanded. Secondly, there is reason to ask questions about the whole assumption that oil and gas production should be phased out – but not just asking questions: Of course, it is directly wrong that Norway should try to reduce its oil and gas production in any way. It's because Western civilization, modern society, is based on fossil energy. I understand that there is nothing you can do at all times, but Norway is the last country in the world that should scale down its oil and gas production, simply because it is a politically stable democracy, while very many other oil and gas suppliers in this world are characterized by being authoritarian robber states. Norway's duty to the world to create a secure future – and then it's just to refer to Russia and Ukraine – is to ensure that we can deliver oil and gas in full, even in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2277	I'm an industrial optimist. I'm also a technology optimist. When we see the historical development that has been in our petroleum industry, which has been in our industry, I think there is good reason to be just this. In the Hudal platform, we're clear that we're going to develop instead of winding up. When we say that, it doesn't just mean something for jobs and value creation – it also means something for Norway's obligations in climate work. A very large proportion of what is CO 2 cut is simply replacing gas with electricity. What is important then, and as I thought the Council of State is getting along in a good way, is that we should do this without going beyond our important land-based projects. We're going to look at the situation. We're going to make sure that this is done in a reasonable way. One thing made me a little thoughtful when I was going to go to the pulpit just after Per Willy Amundsen: when we're going to get to this just by seawinds, it's kind of nice to think that the bourgeois government had more justice ministers than they could put in place by seawind mills. It never became the very big bet. With the new government it's going to be. We have to deal with this with a huge investment in sea winds. We're going to be able to use new tools and tools to manage both the land-based and the need to electrify. We're going to do it in a safe and serious way. I have noticed that the Red Party and the Advance Party also come together in this matter. It's paradoxical, because this is what this is about, is to transport power from water power plants, which Red has been opposed to building, to a petroleum industry that would have been shut down before it was created if it had been up to the Progress Party. The fact that the two parties also agree on this theme may be quite natural. We must be future-optimists and industry-optimists. We can do that if we take care of the need for climate change on our pedestal and value the land-based industry. We are the Labour Party – we are the industrial party, and yes: when it comes to industry and climate, we have to deal with both.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2291	In any case, it is quite clear that the most expensive thing for us as a society is not achieving the climate goals. halting climate change is essential, even from an economic perspective – long-term, just enough. But electrifying the socket will require at least 23 TWh – 15 pst. of Norwegian power generation. The working party will do it with wind power from land, sea wind and even more water power, but there are huge amounts of things to talk about. Is there Stølsheimen landscape protection area to catch – 1500 megawatts, 300 wind turbines, maybe a production of 4 TWh? It is not long since there was a full uprising in the whole country against wind power on land, and SV says clearly no to large-scale wind power on land. But we also say a clear yes to stopping greenhouse gas emissions, including those on the base. Hence, it is unlikely important to think about when to electrify or when to cut greenhouse gas emissions there. Examples are that production platforms have halved their emissions by employing new technologies and re-management of energy production on platforms. At least that potential has to be exploited. In addition, one has to use this moment to build wind power at sea, but in areas there and in such a way that one does not destroy large natural values. It has to be made clear that the oil industry, on the assumption that it is paying for it, must pay for it. Therefore, SV's clear hold to this is that there is wind power at sea that must be the main solution here, together with CCS and energy savings on the platforms. Then we can get to the painting. The most important thing is to bring down greenhouse gas emissions and secure our descendants a good future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2302	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2307	We must use this work to cut the emissions on the base, as my colleague said, as an engine in the bet on sea wind. Then we can cut emissions, we can secure commissions to the yard industry on the Norwegian coast, and we can develop a technology that can become an important export article for Norway. How can we do this? Well, by entering into a binding climate agreement with the oil companies – where we either impose it on them, or if we can achieve it in dialogue, as Marit Arnstad says, so much for me – to cut the emissions from the base by using sea wind. We have already tried out this kind of agreement earlier in Norway, through the NO X fund, which is a huge success – a cooperation between state and business to cut emissions that cause acid rain. We should also repeat that in the fight against the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2317	In my post, I said that it would be an advantage if the Senterpartie reflected on things they voted for in Stortinget, before they vote for them – rather than a few months later. To the parliamentary leader of the Central Party that my sarcasms take her with low shoulders. At least there is one thing that is obvious that we have to bring low shoulders, and that is what the parliamentary leaders of the Central Party say here and in public, because she clearly does not want one to take seriously. For yesterday, at the Central Party National Board meeting, the parliamentary leader said that ‘climate targets in 2030 could be put at a disadvantage, but we need to have an honest discussion about this’. Today she stands here and says that we are behind the Norwegian climate targets. It's either a reverse operation or a pirate or something that you shouldn't take seriously, so a clarification that would be useful. A good explanation would be that one should not take the NVE seriously, and one should support the Norwegian climate targets. That would be good. It is said from several representatives here that we should have come further with the sea win, but the previous government did nothing. Of course, one may always think that one should have come further – of course I would also like to – but I would like to remind you that what is now actually being built out of sea wind, was confirmed and funded under the previous government, the world's largest floating sea wind farm, Hywind Tampen. Which is going to go to what? Yes, just electrifying the Snorre and Gold-Fix fields. In addition, we're opening up new areas to expand more, and the only thing this government has done with it so far is to postpone half the expansion of the Southern North Sea II. Half the level of ambition and the conditions under which it is likely no longer commercially viable but must be subsidized. That one then stands here on this pulpit and says that the previous government did nothing, but we bet – it must be a member of the Labour Party or of the Central Party in order to be able to believe in itself. So many, from a lot of parties, are going up here and saying that it's almost scientifically proven that there's nothing to say about climate on Earth that a cutter slips out of Norwegian socket, because it's part of the quota market. Yes, if one thinks so, then there's nothing to say about the climate about shutting down German coal power plants, there's nothing to say about the climate if we're flying less, there's nothing to say about the climate if we're building gas power plants on land in Norway, or if we cut out of Hydro Aluminium – because all that's the quota market. But guess what? We also need to reduce emissions in the quota market, significantly, and it is already agreed in the EU, and it is going to happen. The question then is: should one sector in Norway – by chance the one with the largest emissions – be exempted from that policy? That is what we are talking about here. It should not be done. Solutions exist: Force from land is not the only one; it is part of it. Marine wind is an important solution. CCS is an important solution. Entachment is an important solution. We all need it together, and I hope and believe and trust that this government will work for it – and not against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2332	I take the floor first and foremost to comment on the contributions of the representative of Halleland, who says that I do not know the challenges of the West in terms of the need for power. He notes that the mountainous region needs 3,000 MW. That is quite correct, but there is no force in the West, neither in the price range south of Rogaland nor in the prices range north of Bergen and Sogn and Fjordane. We're exporting her to Austland and to the rest of the world. The challenge, which is quite clear in the Statnet network development plan, is that there is a need for transfer capacity between the different price regions, and not least to obtain the power to where it is needed. For this reason, the KVU for the mountain region provided by Statnett – he has been treated by the government, and he has just been approved by the new government – points out that there is a need for a new 420 kV line out to Kolsnes, where it is a dire life to work on new technologies and new ways of working to save the society from greenhouse gas emissions. Among other things, we need to store CO 2 in the ocean via Northern Lights, we need to electrify the Troll field, and there are a number of other projects. That's why we need to get out of here. That's where we have our problems, and that's what's the challenge. I would actually have believed everyone in this committee was aware that it is the transmission capacity that is the very largest bottleneck. Hence, the Solberg government brings down the Nakstad selection. They have to deliver to summer. I hope that this can result in us getting more parallel processes, more efficiency in the concessional treatment, and that we can get our net built up considerably faster than what we have in our waters. Elles, there have been many people up in the pulpit today. I thought it was a good debate – in no way black-and-white. That's a lot of good points, and I think that too has been pretty enlightening to many here. Among other things, my colleague, Stensland, took the floor here and said that we also had to look at methods other than power from land, and it is an important part of getting down on a Norwegian base. The goal is to reduce emissions on a Norwegian base by 60 pst. with power from land. 20 pst. shall aim to streamline the gas reactors, the gas power stations on the base, and 20 pst. shall be taken by the field, prior phase-out, aggregation of fields. So there's a lot of technologies that are going to help us achieve goals here. In no way is it just power from land, but power from land is important. The debate here shows that we are willing to exert force from countries, but we also need to look at other technologies, both to reduce emissions and to bring up power generation in ways other than using power from countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2348	Today, many have been in the pulpit talking about Norway’s climate goals. These are, of course, important objectives, and it is essential that we achieve those objectives. It has Red all plans to do. However, as important as Norway’s climate targets are the global climate targets. Climate is known as a global and not a local issue, although the measures are local. Then the question is what is the purpose of a large-scale electrification of the socket if the global climate effect of it becomes so small that it almost does not matter. So sending the gas out of the country to burn it there rather than burning it on a Norwegian oil platform doesn't give all the world in the global climate. In the current debates that have been taking place throughout the winter, both the Red Party and the Advance Party have been accused of nationalism and protectionism by our opponents. Many of those who have been on the pulpit have emerged as proud internationalists with a desire for global solidarity. But in today's debate, the roles are suddenly reversed, because the same internationalists are most concerned about doing something about Norway's climate accounting and much less about doing something about global climate accounting. The key seems to be finding opportunities for Norway to achieve its targets, to maintain its highly profitable oil industry – completely independent of its global impact on greenhouse gas emissions. That is by no means solidarity. What you actually do then, as I see it, is to pull our famous nisolelua down over our eyes and stare blindly at its own emissions. If the climate effect of electrification of the socket is limited, there is a power that is not limited at all, and that is the effect it has on the Norwegian electricity price. It appears today that many have already forgotten the situation in Norway throughout the winter, with galloping and uncontrolled electricity prices. I am quite sure that the current storm that has been in winter will become too bad a breeze to count if you want to electrify Norwegian pedestal with power from land. The consequence of this is that the Norwegian power-intensive industry – world-class green industry employing people across the country – will fall. There has been talk today of both the winding up and the development of the oil industry. In the past, there have been end dates and everything possible, but what these decisions will do effectively is to set an end date for the green industry in Norway. It is the opposite of developing the green industry in Norway. It is in practice to liquidate it through a power price which means that one is no longer competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2359	The representative of Marit Arnstad has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2365	I have to take it slowly and clearly. The centre party believes that everything cannot be electrified from the mainland. The Norwegian power system, as it stands today, does not tolerate it in South Norway. We need to build several sea winds linked to the petroleum installations to get the electrified base. The question is, are we going to be able to do it in eight years? That's the question I asked yesterday. And when one asks that question, there's three possible answers to that: Yeah, we'll make it. No, we can't do it, and then we have to put new things into our climate commitments. We have to postpone the climate target. I hope the last thing isn't going to happen, I don't want it to happen. But I think that the dilemma that is about the next eight years, at least is a dilemma, and there are shades that we have to discuss now, that don't wait until 2027, and we should discuss that in a way that doesn't cause us to deliberately misunderstand and construct things other than what we've actually meant and said.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2382	I do not want to lecture the Progress Party, but when the representative Nilsen claims that we only cut emissions in Norway by electrifying, I feel a little need for it. Let me remind you that there is no wall set up in our atmosphere, and wind, sea and precipitation also move on our emissions. In addition, the gas not to be burned on a Norwegian base can be used more efficiently and efficiently abroad. Substitution of gas turbines in whole or in part will lead to increased energy efficiency and high climate gains. This will also cut global climate allowances in the long term. The world looks to Norway, and Norway is recognised for developing technology for industry, including green industry. We can't get in the back here. So I'll use the quote to Red and say that no, we can't bring down the pyjamas. We have to take part in the world's transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2393	Sometimes now I read comment fields, I wonder, where does this come from? When the representative, Kristjánsson, from Rådt, makes the claim that climate action as we do in Norway is too insignificant to be worth considering, because it is so little in the big international context, it reminds me of headlines and comments that I only register from the party leader in the Advance Party and the comment fields in the Netvisa. In my view, it is not a good way to conduct a debate on the role of Norway in the green shift. Our approach is to deal with both parts – climate and industry, both offshore and on land – but then we have to be able to take this debate in a way that takes account of some dignity. I'll falsify that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2398	The representative of Terje Halleland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2403	I'm not going to deal so much with the representative Trellevik and his calculation of the power situation in the West, but we're going to have to sit down with a calculator one day. I want to address the concern that we will not achieve the climate targets if we do not electrify the socket. Then I have to ask some of the representatives to read a little about what kind of demands Norway has made on itself in terms of climate. The agreement on the tax package is an internal agreement and has nothing to do with the climate policy that we have agreed internationally. It's now, as the Progress Party sees it, so big changes related to the force situation that we want to reverse the emission target, from 50 pst. to 40 pst. We justify that the major changes are largely there, and that no one knows the cost of the proposal. The oil industry has tax conditions that make this profitable, and it must be interesting for the assembly to know how much the different climate measures cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2410	The representative Marianne Sivertsen Næss has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2415	I just have to comment on some of the claims that have come from this pulpit. First to the Progress Party and the alleged costs of electrification. I just have to repeat: it is important to bring with you in the big picture that here you will also get equivalent revenues from the sale of the liberated gas. In addition, that gas could contribute to greater security of supply in the EU, also in view of the current situation in Europe. With regard to how this affects global greenhouse gas emissions and that situation, it is clear that if we are able to release gas that can replace coal production in the EU, I cannot understand the other way around that this cuts emissions. Together with cutting more of the surplus quotas, there will be fewer quotas in the market. This results in smaller emissions. Then I just have to say to the left, about what was said about renewable energy and the lack of plans to get up and scale: it has been surprising to hear. So here we have a recipe for how to roll out wind on land, which has created a severe resistance movement. So I'm going to say that the outgoing government could really have done a better job so that we could be in a better situation today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2424	The representative, Marius Arion Nilsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2429	It's good to see that I and the representative Monsen Merkesdal at least agree that we have one atmosphere. That's why it's so clever that you want to use the entire power surplus to move emissions from the Norwegian sector/Norwegian base down to Europe – that's tossing away all the power we have, and a pot of money that could have been spent on alternative measures. It is mentioned here that the gas is sent to Europe so that they can sell it there, and that is quite right. That's how we move the emissions down there. That's where we agree, too. Climate change by cutting the Norwegian industry, which this proposal can lead to because they take the whole power surplus, and we get a price increase, we are totally opposed. Yes, greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are cut by cutting Norwegian business, but this is a very poor solution. We are definitely voting against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2438	There is no doubt that the problems ahead of us are huge and demanding. We are also in a very demanding time in total. I think what we should think carefully about is how we should be able to have thoughtful answers to demanding questions. I see a lot of this debate, and especially the extremes here, are unable to deliver thoughtful solutions to demanding questions. It worries me, because it's what we really needed when we're going to build opportunities in the future, is to have a broad collection of what underpins the security of people, business and industry in the future. Of course, it is about having more access to renewable energy. It is the main input in the conversion of Norway in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, in terms of new opportunities, whether it is battery plants, whether it is more aluminium production or how we should do it. More access to renewable energy is the basis. There is not so much in this debate about that basis – nothing, and it worries me. Of course, we're going to be able to bet on sea wind. I fully agree with the impatience expressed by the representative Rotevatn, but he should do so on the right basis. When we took over the Ministry of Oil and Energy last fall, it was empty for wind power. The wind power input that is coming now, we've built up after the government change. It is about Southern North Sea and the starting shot for it, about Utsira North and qualitative criteria. It's about making sure that we get the industry with us and not least that we get a system where Statnett is – let's say – the main provider of network development and do it in a safe way, so we don't push power-processing industry out of our country through that idea. The representative Kristjánsson said that the electrification of the socket is so insignificant in the world context. That is just how the Progress Party has argued all the way to cutting greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, that it is so insignificant in the world context. Maintaining the requirements and reaching for the solutions here is precisely helping to develop new opportunities, not least around floating sea winds. I fully agree with the representative Arnstad, who said that we must also make demands on the oil companies in order to be involved in the development. The representative Haltbrecken also said that. That's what we have to do to succeed in the continuation. So to the simple answers to the more complicated questions: when the Progress Party has promoted and voted in favour of a proposal that says that they will ask the government to stop further electrification of Norwegian socket with power from land without exception, it is no to Wisting, it is no to NOAKA and it is no to the projects that lie in the future and that may need power from land. It's a bad and little thoughtful solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2453	Here it seems that someone not only has the nisole down their eyes, but also over their ears, because both the Council of State Aasland and the representative of Vereide have fundamentally misunderstood what was my point in the matter. It's also possible that I'm bad at making myself understood and ill at clear speech, but I don't know, really, if is a quite striking criticism. My point is not that it is insignificant if we get cut emissions from Norwegian oil and gas because there is so little in the world context. My point is not that Norway is such a small country that Norwegian climate policy does not play a role, as perhaps the point has been to someone from the Progress Party. No, on the contrary, there are a lot of Norway that can do. It's e.g. So if not the Workers' Party, the party of both the State Council of Aasland and the representative of Vereide, had been involved in expanding ever-new oil fields, had been involved in opening up ever-new oil fields, it would have had great significance in global terms. It's e.g. so that if the Workers' Party were not to join the Advance Party to secure the Wisting field in Finnmark, it would be of great importance. But my point is that there is a difference between cutting emissions and moving emissions. Of course, if Norway cuts emissions, it is important. Moving the same emissions to European countries by selling the gas there, making money on it, achieving their own climate targets, enriching themselves with those emissions when they burn that gas – then you are not solidarity, and then it does little in the big context. So State Council Aasland is asking for a broad collection on these questions. But the accident in this country has been that there has been a broad collection, between the Right and the Workers' Party, of a passive industrial policy, of a power policy driven by the market, of a policy for the oil and gas sector that has not been close to meeting our climate objectives. That's the broad collection we have to break with if we're going to be able to achieve our climate goals and build new green industry here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2466	It may be Kristjánsson trying to draw up a debate that is not quite real, but when Red starts to take on how one has built industry, business opportunities and development in Norway, it is with respect to reporting a little provocative. Because there's someone who doesn't have one section, one comma, or one sentence in history that supports just industrial construction, it's the Red Party. They have not contributed in any way to the favourable situation we have, the one that promises Norway, which has made it possible that we have a lot of safe jobs around, and that people can get up in the morning and have an income to live on. And of course, we're going to do it in the future too. We will ensure that there are opportunities to develop industry in Norway. We're going to provide more power. We will ensure the development of the oil and gas industry because it is also an important premiscuous supplier in a future image, not least with the background and the current situation in Europe, where one must be able to break free from Russian gas. How will Europe cope with its energy transition if we are not initially a stable and secure supplier of an input factor they sorely need? In ten to fifteen years, blue hydrogen may be the main ingredient in it. It's exciting, new opportunities – great industrial opportunities. Floating sea winds will be the same. So far, the party Red has not contributed anything particularly to Norway’s entry into a position favourable to ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2475	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2492	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2499	Today, the government's proposal to reintroduce collective rights of appeal for trade unions on illegal rental is being considered. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation. A direct access to justice for trade unions was established by the Stoltenberg Government in 2013 and abolished by the civil government in 2015. There was a reason why the government of Solberg removed this right of appeal, because it is simply very worrying that someone else goes to court on your behalf without your consent. The Government's proposals give trade unions exclusive access to justice on behalf of their own members, but also on behalf of non-members. No other group in society enjoys such a special right. The proposal does not only conflict with fundamental principles of civil law, it conflicts with the individual's right to decide even if an action is brought against his or her employment. It also conflicts with the right to choose whether to organise or not. This proposal has met with strong criticism from central consultative bodies. The NHO, the KS, the Works, the Shipowners' Association and the Association of Lawyers are among several who have marked a clear distance from the proposal. The Association of Lawyers has gone so far as to say that the proposal does not comply with central human rights, such as the right to fair trial and the negative freedom of organisation. In the end, Norway may risk being convicted in the European Court of Human Rights. This also has a privacy page. When the trade union goes to court, the court must have a number of personal details of the individual hired worker in an action. It is justified for a Member State to have control of its own personal data and to have the legal arrangements at its disposal. Let there be no doubt that we are all concerned about cutting down on unprofessional social actors and illegal hiring. There's a lot we can decide in this room to counteract this. In 2019, Stortinget adopted strong restrictions on the access to rentals, and the Labour Inspectorate has been given the power to pursue violations of the rules. In addition, the individual employee has a natural right to go to court, even with legal assistance from his trade union. The question then becomes why the government chooses this particular tool, when there is so much else we could agree on. The primary point of view of the right is that this proposal is not adopted in its entirety, but we have announced that we will propose, in a subsidiary way, to modernise the proposal, so that it will only include members of the trade union in question who go to court. I will bring this up with the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2518	The representative Anna Molberg has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2523	Collective rights of redress for trade unions are important. It is important to prevent illegal hiring and it is important to strengthen permanent employment as the general rule in Norway. Trade unions are well placed to detect illegal rentals, because trade unions have the necessary knowledge of the conditions of the lessee and their activity, which strengthens the possibility of detecting illegal rentals. In this context, trade unions will actively work for the overall size of the population, namely that fixed-term employment should be the general rule in Norway. In Norway we are well quiet. The vast majority of parties believe that people should be treated well, and the social partners take responsibility for the development of wage and working conditions through collective bargaining agreements. This does not mean that everything is ‘dandy way’ in Norwegian working life. It's just to open any newspaper and read about people being exploited, about businesses that don't follow the law, about cheats, about creative accounting and about people who almost from one day to the next lose their jobs and are lawless in a practical sense. When a trade union uses the collective legal system, the employer is sued by the trade union. If the company is convicted for it, yes, it is because the law is broken. In this case, an individual may be more likely to seek compensation against the enterprise because the enterprise is convicted of illegal rental. The right-wing call to give employees more rights in the workplace for human rights violations says more about the Right's view of human rights than it says about anything else. The working party will never accept that workers are getting worse working conditions. In addition to collective redress, an obligation should be introduced in the Working Environment Act to draw up written documentation on the assessment of the legality of the lease by the undertaking and that non-discrimination rules are complied with. I notice that some circles claim that the regulation we are now introducing will be contrary to the European Court of Human Rights. We don't mean that. The problem here is not that too many people get help without asking about it, the problem here is that there are too many people who don't get help when they need it. That is why it is a good day today when the majority in this Chamber reintroduces collective redress.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2534	A well-organised work life is a prerequisite for a safe family life. In Norway, we have to stick with our own workers. Practical professions need to be evaluated. We need a much more equal position for the practical professions, both economically, culturally and socially. Fixed employment in enterprises gives rise to the most tidy conditions; crew members in enterprises are at least transparent. Collective redress is an instrument that will contribute to more tidy conditions in sectors using manning companies and will also provide for a stronger enforcement of the rights of hired workers. What is so collective law? Well, it is that trade unions which have members of an enterprise that has hired employees from temporary workers, i.e. under the first paragraph of Section 14-12 or the second paragraph of Section 14-12 of the Working Environment Act, can bring proceedings in their own name on the legality of such hiring. It's a collective court of law. It was introduced by the Red-Green Government in 2013 and abolished by the Blue Government in 2015. Now we put it back in, and that's a good thing. It is important to counter illegal rentals and trade unions have good conditions to detect illegal rentals. It is desirable and necessary that the trade unions be involved and take responsibility. It is an important part of the Norwegian model to get a legal, tidy working life. The new fifth paragraph of Section 17-1 of the bill will simplify today's collective right of action in the dispute law relating to who can take legal action. It does not conflict with Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights on Freedom of Association or with Article 6 of the extended legal force. It has been carefully assessed by the ministry. In addition, I would like to say what the representative Trine Lise Sundnes mentioned, namely a proposal that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV had in Innst. 294 L for 2019-2020 and it should be closely followed by the Council of States. There we propose a new provision in Section 18-5 that ‘in the case of hiring workers, there should be written evidence at the place of work that the legislation on renting and non-discrimination has been complied with’ – i.e. the obligation to draw up written documentation on the company’s assessment of the legality of the lease and that the non-discrimination rules have been complied with. Such an obligation shall be fulfilled prior to the commencement of the lease-in period, and there is now a majority asking the Government to return to the Stortinget with such a bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2549	This case is about reverseing past decisions based on ideology and not based on facts. There is a broad political consensus that fixed employment should be the main rule in Norwegian working life, but several hearing bodies have asked questions about the need to amend the law. They consider that the factual basis does not sufficiently indicate the need for further enforcement mechanisms in the lease-in area. Questions are also raised about the need for such a special rule alongside the general rules of the Arbitration Act, which already allows trade unions to act in their own name in cases of illegal rental. It is pointed out that such a right of appeal for trade unions could raise some fundamental questions. The requirement of party involvement in the proposal will be set aside, including the problem of the union being able to sue the establishment without the request or consent of the lessee himself. This may also be problematic in relation to fundamental human rights, including: negative freedom of organisation and the requirement of fair trial. The proposal may involve several claims being made against undertakings in respect of illegal rental and may lead to increased procedural costs and may lead to several cases being brought before the Court of Justice. The proposal could have a negative impact on established dispute resolution mechanisms between social partners by shifting attention from dialogue and dispute resolution to the Court of Justice. The proposal may be conflicting and could distort the balance of the cooperation developed by the Parties. The party to the proceedings considers it highly objectionable to grant trade unions an exclusive right to have direct access to the courts on behalf of third parties who have not agreed to be part of an action and that the proposal violates the general principles of civil procedure in order to give such an association such a right of appeal. The Progress Party believes that renting will in many cases be a sensible use of labour and help to create the necessary flexibility in the workforce. It should also be emphasised that many workers want a type of work where, for example: are hired by a manning undertaking, with the possibilities it offers for a complex and wide range of work experience. An important process principle in working life is the right to decide for yourself whether to sue the employer or, in this case, the lessee. From 1 July 2020, the Labour Inspectorate has been empowered to supervise the fulfilment of the conditions for hiring out staff undertakings and the requirement of equal treatment for the hire of workers. They also have the competence to impose and respond to breaches of these rules. The extended competence of the Labour Inspectorate and the last years' tightening of the extension of the supervisory competence of the Labour Inspectorate must be allowed time to function in order to enable such a system to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2564	The games at Stortinget are shared in the view of rental. From SV's point of view, we're going to wind up the manning industry. We want particularly vulnerable industries to be screened in total, and the use of rentals to be limited to real vicariates. Of course, we also want to allow rentals between real production companies in agreement with trustees in the trade union with the right to set-aside. It is absolutely necessary to take vigorous action when contracted labour replaces permanent employees and undermines pay and working conditions. It takes place in both construction and construction, industry, care and care. The use of rentals threatens disciplines and prevents the recruitment and development of competences at the workplace. Unsolved tasks and hands must be met; therefore, employment services must be a public responsibility, which is reinforced without unemployment agencies as an intermediary. Although the parties at Stortinget distinguish layers in the view of the rental and the manning industry, the view of illegal rental should not share this hall. Also here it is necessary to take more grips. The majority in the United Kingdom are gathering today about an important one. As long as rentals are allowed, we must fill the toolbox in the fight against illegal rental. Collective legal proceedings mean that trade unions can go to court on illegal hiring, and that is very important, precisely because individual workers do not have to face the burden of suing their own employer. We need to make laws based on the labour market as it is, namely a working life with disproportionate power relationships – and with the aim of changing it. This is why collective redress is necessary in the fight against social dumping and crime. The majority has previously joined the law on collective redress when the red-green government took the initiative. This was changed by the blues before the law had really worked, in a situation that is very different from the time we're in now. Now there is a new political majority who have committed themselves to addressing increasing differences and wanting a policy of economic redistribution, stronger communities and better protection for workers. During the committee consultation, we received several necessary input from the trade union movement. We bring them forward in the form of proposals and see that the department also recognises the need to consider more issues. The reintroduction of this collective right of appeal is important. We must have a law that works, as a protector, that strengthens trustees in their daily struggles, and that enables organized communities to stand up for workers who cannot necessarily do it themselves. I'll discuss the proposals SV is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2583	The representative of Kirsti Bergstø has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2588	It may sometimes seem that some parties on the right have a gloss picture of Norwegian employment. First of all, it does not seem that the parties on the right-hand side understand the many and serious problems that come with hiring from the manning industry, and second, it does not seem that they understand the basic lack of power that lies in the relationship between a tenant working with low or no job security and the company that hires him in. In this lack of power, there is a need to do something, and that's exactly why we in Red are happy that the government is now making a proposal to reintroduce collective redress, so that hired workers do not stand alone in order to clean up unworthy conditions in the world of work. That was the rose, and then the rice, because there's some hole in this proposal that comes from the government, that we in Red, along with SV and also LO, would like to close. One is about the requirement of timeliness. Do you have to judge the relationship at the time of the lawsuit, or do you have to judge the relationship at the time of the trial? It's a little complicated, but it's remarkable that you don't go back and see what was the reason why the case was initially filed, but rather you have to relate to the relationship at work as it is when the judgment falls. At that time, a number of short-term lessee exposures will have ceased to exist and the worker will receive little or no help. In addition, it will give tenants the opportunity to change conditions following the threat of lawsuits, which means that they escape some kind of punishment and regulation in retrospect. A similar hole in this scheme is the question of whether trade unions are only required to make such claims on behalf of lessees or whether they are not also required to have a right to apply to clubs and trade unions in rental companies. The workers are often hired out, and not the workers who are already employed by the company that hires, who know the most critical aspects of renting. The club in Adecco is standing here, with the government's proposal, without the possibility of bringing the same kind of lawsuit that the club in the yards or construction sites that hires workers from these agencies is doing. It is in our eyes a big hole in this system, and it also agrees with the trade union movement. We think it is nice that the government has delivered this so quickly, but we hope and believe that also the government parties will support the proposals that Red and SV here promote, which are about to sharpen this even more than it has already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2603	I was a member of the Labour and Social Committee in 2015 when the Stortinget decided to remove access to collective redress, which had been in force for a few years. That's why the big crowd did it. The first was that one saw this as a symbolism policy. During the years that the home had existed, he had – as far as I think – been used once, and then he was used incorrectly, and did not lead to anything at all. The second and more important reason was the principle. It has a part in it, and I'm going to pay attention to it, and that's why the Left is voting against the position and proposal of the government. It is an important principle in Norwegian law that people should not be dragged into lawsuits that they themselves do not want to be dragged into. Consumer organisations in Norway are not able to sue on behalf of consumers. It is not that NAF can go to court on behalf of accident drivers, or that NOAS can go to court on behalf of asylum seekers – if they themselves do not want to. It is not because in Norwegian law – or from my perspective – we do not want to help consumers, drivers or asylum seekers, it is because people who are dragged into a lawsuit, with the consequences it has, among other things. when it relates to the protection of privacy, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, it would have to do so itself. Then, of course, there are all the possibilities to help them, intervene and pay for the whole case. Trade unions can do that. Fortunately, they do today, and we'll be happy for that. I thought this fundamental objection should have been taken more seriously by the government and by the various red-green representatives who have spoken here today. All just dismiss it and don't really go into it, even if there's nothing the civil opposition can do about it, but it's been important objections, for example. from the Association of Lawyers. So I understand very well the desire to put this system in place. I don't doubt the good intentions of the government for one second or more of these. I fully share that intention. Illegal accommodation is a detachment, one has to hit it hard, and we need a series of measures to do so, whether it is strengthening the labour-criminal centre or engaging in more than one thing and intervening – or whatever it may be. But when the action you are taking, first of all, still needs to be seen as a symbolism policy – it was at least not used last – and is in principle quite demanding, insofar as it was pointed out to be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, it is not something that should only be rejected. There's something one should take seriously as biging. So the left will not support the setting, but we will support proposal No. 1, taken up by the case-speaker, according to the same considerations that were then referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2617	The Government has proposed to reintroduce rules on the right of appeal for trade unions on illegal rental. The proposal provides that trade unions with members of an establishment which has rented out staff undertakings may bring an action for the legality of the lease. Such rules were introduced by the Working Environment Act in 2013 and repealed in 2015. The proposal is an important part of our work to promote permanent and direct employment, to strengthen organised labour and to combat social dumping and crime at work. Breaking the rules is to be punished, and this will be the first new step to strengthen compliance and prevent illegal use of rentals. Although more restrictions have been made in the Lease Code in recent years, we see that there is still illegal employment in some parts of the world. As you know, we have also sent to the hearing proposals for a number of changes to the rental legislation. Infringement of the rental rules is not a private matter. The opening rules take into account far beyond the interests of individual initiations. They have a background in a desire for a labour market where permanent and direct employment is the general rule. The need for collective redress must be assessed on the basis of the specific imbalance of power existing in the relationship between a lessee on the one hand and the lessee and the manning undertaking on the other. Work assignments are often short-lived, and few of the lessees are organised. Many are probably afraid of taking up illegalities in fear of creating conflict and losing future missions. In addition, we know that courting is often associated with high economic risk. When surveys show that very few such cases are brought before the courts, this is not surprising. We cannot expect this group of workers to take on the burden of charging illegal rent on their own. With rules on collective redress, the lessee will be able to clarify his legal position without having to bring his case before him. It will also be easier for individuals to obtain permanent employment and compensation. The rules are also important because they will be able to contribute to a number of such cases being brought before the Court, which is likely to also have a preventative effect. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2643	The proposal to reintroduce collective right of action against illegal rental has brought some criticism from central hearing bodies. The N.H.O.A. stated that the proposal violates fundamental principles of civil procedure, KS indicates that the need is not there as long as the Labour Inspectorate has been given the power to supervise the rental, Works believes it violates privacy considerations and the Law Association maintains that this right may be contrary to human rights, such as the right to fair trial and the negative freedom of organisation. What is the Council's view of these objections?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2650	The proposal to reintroduce rules on the right of appeal for trade unions in the lessee area is part of the government's work to strengthen the right to permanent employment and to facilitate a safe, serious and organised working life. There are several things mentioned here, but in order to deal with it might be contrary to the rule of negative freedom of organisation in EMK Article 11, we believe that it will not be. The EMK Article 11 sets a ban on schemes that may put pressure on the easy to join, or refrain from joining, a particular organisation. The proposed right of appeal does not put pressure on the individual to join the trade union. In my view, it will be a statement that will not be correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2655	I register that, among other things, The Association of Lawyers points out that it may be contrary to the negative freedom of organisation precisely because in this case it is not organised, but nevertheless it is felt to be involved in an action against its will – without being part of the trade union. During the hearing, a number of trade unionists argued that the right of appeal should not be limited to illegal renting. I would then like to ask whether the Council of State shares the view that collective redress should be extended to several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2662	Yes, the Hurdal platform shows that the government will also assess collective redress in other areas, and any such proposals will come in a separate process related to this. Then I want to add that the arguments that are being argued against here, and that have also been part of the hearing, are exactly the same arguments that were before the introduction of collective redress in 2013. In this sense, it's going to be a question of which arguments you put the most emphasis on. For the government, it is important to eliminate illegal hiring, to protect organised working life and to facilitate a safe, serious and organised working life, and it weighs most heavily.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2669	Given what we were talking about negative freedom of organisation: in the light of that, the Right has proposed to moderate the proposal somewhat, so that the trade unions can sue on behalf of their own members and not all employed in a workplace. Is this something that the Council of State could assess to allay the concerns that an employee is being involved in an action without having agreed to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2674	Violation of mandatory legal provisions is not a private matter in Norway. Illegal rental is a matter of society with significance far beyond the interests of the lessees, and therefore I believe that this is important. The fact that the proposal is limited to trade unions with members of the lessee company is related to the fact that there is a greatest practical need for such a rule. Few tenants are organised, and usually there will also be the employees of tenants who have the best knowledge of business practices and the basis for renting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2679	The supporting documents for the underlying proposition are based on the work done in 2012. No more recent evidence has been provided for the decisions taken in this case. The previous government spent considerable resources at the a-krim centres and upgrading the Labour Inspectorate, and this government has also granted additional money to the Labour Inspectorate, precisely to empower them to do a better job. Is it not seen that there is some sort of mistrust of the Labour Inspectorate when it comes to making trade unions a supervisory body, which is to be entrusted to the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2684	In no way, but this government wants to use the means necessary to combat illegal rentals and conditions contrary to the law. Of course, the a-krim centres are important, and the cooperation with the police that the employment centres have. But it is also the case that trade unions in these areas, where illegal hiring takes place, have firsthand knowledge. Studies also show that it is not such that the measures taken have been taken. That is why we need to take a number of measures. Collective redress is one of the instruments that the government will use.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2690	My question concerns the intensification proposals that Red has promoted together with SV, which have also been endorsed in the consultation rounds of the LO and the trade union movement. This is both the case at the time of the action when the rental relationship is to be assessed, and this is the case with the possibility of collective redress in rental companies with clubs and trade unions. Is there anything the Council of State will consider? There had to be a question there too, I understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2695	As I said instead, it emerges from the Hurdal platform that we will also assess collective redress in other areas, and that comes in our own processes. With regard to the requirement of timeliness, such a rule would alter the clear general rule applicable in procedural law and involve a relative in the case of access in order to obtain a judgment in respect of previous legal proceedings. It has not been given that this is an appropriate use of the resources of society and justice. In any case, the requirement of timeliness must be considered in detail today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2700	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2707	Government councils and government parties have stressed that there is no private matter in Norway about mandatory legal provisions being broken or not. In this context, trade unions shall be granted exclusive access to justice on behalf of workers who have not consented to it. We as society clearly have an interest in compliance with Norwegian law, both to protect individuals against injustice and to show that society responds collectively to crime. This is the case in criminal law as well as in labour law and in other regulated areas, as the representative Rotevatn also clearly pointed out. The question, however, is why one particular form of organisation should be given a special right and a red one should enter the courts, while all others must comply with the terms of the dispute law in order to sue. It is true today that trade unions can go to court, but then according to the rules that everyone else has to deal with. Nor has the Supreme Court refused to allow trade unions to bring an action on behalf of their own members. In particular, each employee has access to the courts in the same way as all others, including with the legal assistance of his trade union. It is not a purely private matter if mandatory legal provisions are broken or not. That is why we have different supervisory powers that have been given to persecute and punish unprofessional actors in the labour market. It is therefore possible for the prosecution authority to also prosecute a number of criminal offences on behalf of offenders in criminal proceedings. The trade unions have deep roots in Norwegian working life and are always going to play a crucial role in the tripartite cooperation we all stand behind. Trade unions also have an important role to play in highlighting and promoting labour market irregularities. However, trade unions do not need to act as supervisory authorities, all the time we have our own supervisory authorities, and at least not when it involves obtaining powers that are so extensive as to conflict with fundamental principles such as self-determination, freedom of organisation and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2716	Changes based on ideology, not facts, mentioned the representative Olsen of the Progress Party. I have in memory a former Minister of Labour who introduced new rules based on a dream. When the representative Olsen of the Progress Party is afraid that collective redress will override discussion procedures and increase the amount of the case before the court, I don't think the representative needs to worry. In the same way as the rules on temporary employment – as they are now, not as the Progress Party Councils dreamed of – this will prevent. Labour and Petroleum Control are positive for the reintroduction of collective redress, precisely because it will relieve their work in a positive sense, because trade unions have much more and better knowledge of what is actually happening in businesses at all times. And it is in the interests of trade unions that the maximum number of employees in a job is employed by the employer for whom work is being done. That is how trade unions, together with the social partners, can take responsibility for the formation of wages and the further development of jobs in this country. Therefore, it is not unnatural for trade unions to have a collective right of appeal in order to ensure stability and thus further develop and have participation in the workplace, in line with the main agreement concluded between LO and NHO, which is one of the cornerstones of the cooperation of the parties in that country. So it's reasonable and wise to make sure that trade unions have collective law relating to renting, and I think that will also benefit us in that way that there will be the most permanent employment in the businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2725	Collective rights of appeal were not given time to work the last time it was introduced, because the right-wing government chose to remove it. The representative Rotevatn and others have pointed out that there were few cases before the court the last time such a law was in force. Then it is important to remember that the situation was different then, in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Then there was a completely different situation in many industries. It was degradation in the industry, now it's construction. It also does something about how the tools that trustees have in the fight against illegal hiring are used — the actual conditions of work and business. Then there is a problem with certain aspects of the proposal which have a majority in this Chamber. I remind you that it is not the first time this law is proposed, to which a majority subscribes. Substantial legislative work has been referred to and assessments that should address the concerns raised. However, when reference is made to the fact that more restrictions have been introduced within the tenancy area and that the Labour Inspectorate has been supervised, it is important to remember that the dubious trustees still report illegal rentals, that the Labour Inspectorate reports that it is difficult to distinguish between legal and illegal rentals, and that the same representatives and the parties pointing out that there have been restrictions have voted against those restrictions. Even a former Prime Minister from the Right has just mentioned tightening up the rental code as one of the biggest failures in her reign. And it's not like those who object to collective redress have other proposals to be able to offensively combat illegal rental. It may not be so strange when the starting point for a right-wing government was to recognise the right not to organize. The starting point for a new majority is a society based on organisation, party cooperation and change in power relations. That is why I just want to establish that collective redress is collective protection, and that is why many confederations and trust-elects are satisfied with the majority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2734	It was said that collective redress was removed in 2015, and that was before it had worked. She can do that. I was not part of either the government or the Stortinget in the previous period, but it may well have been a mistake. It may be, but I choose to think it wasn't a wet dream, either. There were simply some signals from the reality that there were few things. But that doesn't mean you have to make a new mistake now. When we have provided the Labour Inspectorate and the a-krim centres as much resources as we have done over time, we should at least have such respect for what we have done that we have evaluated the work that was going on. So you don't want to do that. You just choose to reintroduce what was, and then I think it's ideology -- not necessarily facts. I also think, and I guess we can say so, that Norway does not have that very good rating in the Human Rights Court. We've lost a lot of things there, and there may well be a lot of things there in the future. I don't think that's necessarily that positive either if we end up in such a situation on the international arena. I believe that we are most useful in assessing everything before we implement new things, and then I think that the evaluation of the work of the Labour Inspectorate would have been in place before we made any new proposals. I think we're going to relate to that in the Church we're going to believe, and in this room we're going to adopt things we're reasonably sure of. And I have to be absolutely honest that I'm not quite sure about everything that concerns this matter, but at least I'm sure that most people who have made representations in this case are not positive about introducing collective redress.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2745	I am aware of the need to stress only that although the Labour Inspectorate was given the competence to supervise the rules on the rentals as of 1 July 2020, my assessment is that public oversight and collective redress would be two different mechanisms that must be assumed to strengthen overall compliance with the rules on the rentals. I actually took the floor because I am probably reacting a little to the claim of the representative Molberg that the proposal to introduce collective redress is contrary to ‘self-determination, freedom of organisation and privacy’, as was said by this pulpit. Then at least I want to say something about it and perhaps also stress what I said in my previous post, that I really don't. With regard to the freedom of organisation, this really does not put pressure on the individual to join or not to join, for that matter, a particular organisation. The proposed right of appeal does not impose any pressure on individuals to join the trade union. In the case of self-determination, mandatory legal provisions are not a private matter in Norway. Unlawful rental is a matter of community importance far beyond the interests of individual letters. And the fact that the court has access to information about persons other than those who are party to a specific case is otherwise neither illegal nor particularly unusual. And in my opinion, this does not conflict with privacy either. For the purposes of Article 6 of the Human Rights Court, the decision of the Court in an action brought by the trade union will be formally binding only on the parties. There is no legal effect on the individual lessee. So the rentals are not cut off, for example. to proceed to a new action for compensation or permanent employment, and in such a case will also have the full opportunity to inform the case and also to provide evidence and evidence of their own motion if they so wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2758	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2775	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2782	The goal must be Norway as the best place to start and run a business. There is a need for a strong social security network to provide security for those who choose to bet. That is why we made a number of improvements to the social rights of self-employed and freelancers on the Right Guard. Lack of rights in own and children’s diseases is highlighted as a key challenge in starting and operating its own activities. So we increased the coverage from 65 pst. to 80 pst. on the basis of sickness benefits. We also made sure that self-employed workers and freelancers were entitled to care allowances from the social security system in the same way as the workers received from the social security system. Self-employed workers can purchase voluntary health insurance from Nav with 100 pst. coverage, but the scheme has been underutilised over time. That is why we lowered the Right Guard premium – that is, the price – to be there, to make it more attractive. The Coronapandemic shows that there are weaknesses in the social security network. The right therefore considers that the government should, without undue delay, determine whether it can and should make further improvements to the social security network. It has to be stressed here that the arrangements are both seen as fair in isolation and overall, in terms of both payments and withdrawals, so that they achieve legitimacy and stand over time. Then, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I must say that I think it is good that we here in this Chamber, and as a committee, agree on the broad lines and on the direction here, and that we should consider possible improvements. However, from the Right we are more impatient after getting the knowledge on the table, because the letter from the Council of State shows that we lack good figures and facts in the field. The right will therefore ask the government to set up a sample to review and assess possible improvements in social rights, with delivery time at the latest within the revised national budget 2023. We look forward to discussing the matter further, to continuing the work for Norway as the best country to start and run the business, with a strong social security network. On behalf of the Right, I'm taking this up with me the proposal we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2799	The representative of Alexander Stakkebø has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2804	I have myself been able to try myself as a self-employed person – experienced both joy and enthusiasm when a test has to be completely self-contained, but also got to know a little of the insecurity that many people know about. Fortunately, in recent years some improvements have been made to the safety net and social rights of both freelancers and self-employed workers. That's good. Furthermore, during the corona pandemic, quite a number of measures have been taken to ensure a temporary income scheme for this particular group. I am pleased that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have also taken a responsibility to ensure money and security for people who have lost under the pandemic, that it also applies to freelancers and self-employed people, namely that they have received their own compensation scheme. Maybe it should just be missing, because all of these employees have hung it when it's turned out. Nevertheless, it is important to bear in mind that this is an exceptional compensation scheme and that it should not be made permanent in concrete terms. There are some parties to the Committee, with the exception of the Red Party and the Advance Party, on this point. However, what we want to emphasise and promote is that there is a holistic review of the social rights and the law relating to freelancers and self-employed people. At least I'm happy, because if there's anything you've known even when you've been in a meeting not only with enthusiasm and enthusiasm, but also a little bit of insecurity, it's that there's a need for a safety net. However, it is important to stress that what is desired is to have as organized and organised a job as possible. That's what we want to talk about most. However, when many workers are in this situation, it is important that we look at the integrity of that safety net.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2813	The case today is about self-employed and freelancers, whether the temporary system for securing the income of these groups should be extended. And a sample will be set up to present proposals to ensure greater equality of treatment between these and others in the labour market. Under the pandemic, arrangements were absolutely necessary to ensure that self-employed and freelancers had a predictable and good safety net, a predictable income and security for an unforeseeable period of time. Now the pandemic will be over soon, we think. Then it's important that we get into more normal times again. So it's necessarily not that everything should be the way it was before. A arrangement that the left will now make permanent, is a bigger one that we can't just easily take almost above the table. The temporary compensation scheme has several weaknesses, including: lack of control capability. Being a self-employed person is a challenge that many people will face, both because you have an inherent power to create something – and you also have the dream of making good money, so that you can support yourself and others. If we are to provide the self-employed and the freelancers with these goods, we also need to investigate what is the consequence – what is the cost, what is the contribution of the self-employed and the freelancers? The whole picture has to be seen, not just piecefully and divided, because this is a major change in the well-being of self-employed and freelancers. The centre party believes it is important to improve the conditions for these groups. Such conditions include, inter alia: income from self-employed persons under maternity, maternity and parental leave, sickness pay scheme, etc. The Hurdal platform clearly states that the government will: «Assess and improve social arrangements for self-employed persons.» And on the other hand, «Examination of self-employed persons and freelancers shall enhance their rights to security of income.» And... «Improvement of the sick pay scheme, including for self-employed workers.» It's a bit of fun that in today's position there's actually a large majority in favour of these formulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2844	We support some of the points in the proposal from the Left. It has been absolutely necessary that the pandemic we've been in has secured most of our people in a good way, but making a system permanent without a good investigation is to go a little too fast. The Progress Party wants less political governance and less regulation towards business and believes that it should be easy to start and operate your own business. However, an important task for governments is to facilitate business development that provides value creation, jobs and well-being. If the risk becomes too high, it may prevent the establishment and realisation of its own ideas. There are today good insurance schemes that can ensure that this risk is reduced for self-employed and freelancers. Without this kind of insurance, the risk is greater, and for some people it's too big. There will always be a need for knowledge, including about social rights. If they're good enough, it might make sense to look at them. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to support such an investigation. In the event of an incubation, the Progress Party is not on the committee's advice, but we therefore support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2855	Self-employed and freelancers have been through a very rough time. The Creator and the need for action were replaced by uncertainty and despair when the pandemic came and the country was shut down. For newly-establisheds, it was particularly tough. I think the many stories from people who were finally going to start up their dream have made a strong impression on more than those who themselves have been in the situation. The same is true of stories about musicians who sold their instruments because they lacked income. The pandemic became a disparate crisis. The economic differences in society were reinforced, and several probably also knew how important the community is. Many knew about vulnerabilities when Community solutions did not meet their own reality and function. Therefore, it was necessary to ensure self-employed and freelance workers during the crisis. On the SV side, there has been an important priority both to strengthen and extend the systems targeted at them. But it's not given that what's right in a crisis is what's needed when a everyday life begins to develop. The measures we put together, and that had to get in place quickly in order to work quickly, are not necessarily the right thing to do. That is why we in SV believe that there is a need to do a more thorough job, and we are very pleased that there is a broad majority that today supports under such a type of investigation, so that we can get a job, get a case and see how self-employed and freelancers can get a better safety net – more social security. I have registered that Creo, who organizes, among other things, many freelancers, who are cultural workers' associations, have welcomed this investigation and have worked to this end, because it is important for very many of those who are in the so-called free professions and who also need a community.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2864	I sometimes think it can be hard to explain to people who don't have a firm hold in this room, what you really disagree about. This case is partly a good example of this, for the proposal from the Left, the proposals from the Red, the proposal from the Right, and the proposal from the Government is, of course, somewhat the same. You want to move forward at different paces and have different demands on government commitment. It's easy for us to understand, but sometimes it can be a little bit difficult to understand outside. What is good in any case is that a total accumulation realizes that the pandemic revealed a major failure in the income security of self-employed and freelancers, and that there is now a united collapse that is at least about a desire to investigate and find solutions to those problems. So some of us are more impatient than that, but it's really not that dangerous. In addition to that, we in Red have submitted two loose proposals on the other side of the pandemic regime, which are now essential to extend and look at. The improvements in the day-to-day pay system. It was not only self-employed and freelancers who got it tough under the pandemic; it also made a lot of unemployed people, and it was a total increase that went in many ways to improve the day-to-day arrangements. But what the pandemic revealed was that the daily allowance scheme in Norway is too poor, not least for those who have low wages initially. That's also why there was such a broad consensus about strengthening this. Red therefore suggests that the government also review the improvements with a view to keeping some of them permanent, but also that now, when we are on the rise side and the Norwegian economy have finally begun to freshen up, the people who have been on long-term unemployment do not miss out on the increase in the daily allowance that has been in place, so that those who have been unemployed over a long period of time do not fall out in the last months before the Norwegian economy is seriously freshly reported. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2877	The representative Mimir Kristjánsson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2882	Small businesses account for two thirds of all new jobs in Norway. As a country, we are totally dependent on innovation and culture for entrepreneurship, on being a society that honors entrepreneurs and those who think new. And at the same time, the fact that several start businesses and dare to live up to the entrepreneurial dream is not only important for the national economy – nor is it just important for the Left and other political parties. No, it's really important to create a better society, because it gives more people freedom and opportunities to realize their dreams for life. It's about letting go of old age and regret what you never did, never dare, never bet on – but instead you can think back with joy that you actually did it, whether it was good or not. With that backing, the Left has put forward this proposal for a representative. In our view, strengthening income protection schemes for those who create their own jobs is a good investment for society. Founders, freelancers and self-employed people take a high personal risk economically and careerably. The vulnerability of several speakers has become particularly evident for the last two years under the covid-19 pandemic, which has clearly shown discrimination between those added and those who create their own jobs. Then it's important to realize that this is not only important in what we traditionally think of as business, but also in cultural life: performing artists, cultural workers and many others. I notice that the recordings on the subject with strong support for Left's proposals come from organisations representing the cultural sector: Grammar, the country's largest stakeholder organisation for artists and musicians, and NOPA, the stakeholder organisation for composers, text writers, songwriters and music producers. Of course, the left would have preferred that the Stortinge today adopt what is our primary proposal: that, in the context of the revised national budget of 2022, the government should already propose a permanent system for the protection of the income of self-employed and freelancers. But at the same time, we are pleased that a broad number of people are some with the Left in that we need to strengthen the social rights of self-employed people, and that the majority will at least start work on how freelancers and self-employed people should work out stronger income protection rights, including the improvement of the sick pay system. It's an important breakthrough. It is a very necessary next step for even more people to choose to start their own business, and for us to take more advantage of the potential that exists across the country for more innovation and create more of the jobs we know Norway needs in the future. The left is going to be a driver so that it doesn't delay in time or blur in nothing. Our goal is fixed: a permanent income insurance scheme for those who do not have an employer. With this in mind, I would like to address the loose proposal of the Left, proposal No. 2 and the Left also supports proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2902	The representative, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, has taken up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2907	The government is concerned that we should have a good climate to start businesses in Norway. In the Hurdal platform, we are aware that innovation and business start-ups are important and that we need to facilitate the success of Norwegian companies. This also creates jobs. Entrepreneurs and self-employed persons should therefore have good framework conditions. Self-employed persons and freelancers have many of the same rights in the social security system as workers, but there are also some good reasons why there are some differences in the schemes. I'll get back to that. Both the pandemic and the measures against infection have been a burden for individuals and businesses. A number of schemes have therefore been put in place to compensate for the disadvantages, many of which have also benefited self-employed and freelancers. This applies to entitlement to sickness benefits for corona-related absences and to special rules for care allowances. There is also a separate temporary income insurance scheme for self-employed and freelancers who have lost their income as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. Now society is becoming normalized after the pandemic, and the activity of the economy is high. The need for temporary measures is no longer the same and thus many of the measures will be terminated from 1 April onwards. The same applies to this income insurance scheme. Self-employed people take a higher economic risk than in the case of employees. There may be more reasons, but for many the motivation will also be the prospect of higher incomes. It also provides some economic benefits by paying a significantly lower contribution to social security through social security contributions than what is paid for employees. Thus, self-employed persons may not expect the same income insurance as employees. But self-employed people can choose to reduce risk. Self-employed people who want greater security and increased rights in public security may choose to organise their activities as an AS and hire themselves. If you do, you become an employee and you get all the rights and duties that come with it. Sickness benefits are provided with a lower level of compensation for self-employed and freelancers. These are considered to be their own employer and cover their own sickness benefits during the employer's period. But they can choose to insure themselves and get the right to sickness benefits for the first 16 days. Relatively few people buy such insurance today. In the case of daily allowances, employees of their own limited liability company and freelancers have granted the same rights from social security as employees that they fulfil the condition of having lost income as an employee. However, self-employed persons and freelancers who do not receive a salary also do not have a claim for unemployment benefits. It would be almost impossible for the authorities to verify whether self-employed persons comply with the requirements of being a true job seeker, and that is a central requirement of the rules on day-to-day pay. Of course, we note – and want to follow up – what the Hurdal platform points to, that we should go through the rights, and look forward to that work and cooperation with the Committee and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2922	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2927	On the Right Guard, we strengthened the social security network for self-employed workers and freelancers with health benefits, care allowances and insurance schemes. At the same time, there may be good reasons to consider further improvements, and in the right we are impatient after this work is started. My question is, When will the Council of State launch the investigation, and when can we expect clarifications to be made to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2934	The government will follow up this work, and there are other things that are important in determining which rules apply in a job. The question of who is a self-employed person or employee has also gained a topicality through the emergence of the platform economy. The Fuugner Committee has, among other things: looking at different forms of association in the Norwegian working life and promoting several proposals precisely to make it clearer who is the employee. We are now following up on this work, for example. related to the proposals of the Fuugner Committee, which are also important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2939	Thank you for your reply to the Council of State. I had of course hoped that one could be even a little more specific on the schedule, but I am very happy that the work is going on. What I hope for is that the Council of States can at least share some more reflections on what she thinks is the biggest challenges today in terms of income protection for these income groups. When, for example: says that one will consider improving the health pay scheme, which elements in it is then interesting to look at? Is it the grading, for example, or the level of coverage, when you first need it? And what balances does the Council of State think should be made in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2946	We say that we are going to investigate whether self-employed workers and freelancers are going to work out stronger income protection rights. It is stated in the Hurdal platform, and it also says that we should improve the health pay system also for self-employed people, on the same platform. I'm part of this, but then I also want to say that when we're going to evaluate the social arrangements and improve them, and consider how we're going to do it, we have to look at the design of the schemes and also at funding and how we're going to pay for these schemes. I believe it is central in this context to look at issues related to employer responsibility, employee classification and the forms of association in the labour market. We will also follow up the proposals of the Fuugner Committee on the future of work, and this also means tightening up the possibility of evading employers' responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2953	My question goes in the same direction as the representative Stokkebø, in getting to the right a little bit more about what is the timing of what is being signaled here. A suggestion to come back to something in the revised version. That's okay, and that's fair, but is it, for example, topical to come back to this in connection with the state budget for 2023? So there's a little shade here that I'd like to ask the Council of State to clarify. The submitted statement is as follows: ‘The government is asking for self-employed workers and freelancers to work out stronger rights’. But the plural comment from the same parties says: ‘The majority will strengthen social rights for self-employed persons’. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that what it says is the policy — one that should not only consider ‘om’, but a ‘will’ strengthen the rights, and then an assessment of how it should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2970	There were several questions – which I could possibly answer in a long post. In the Hurdal platform, it is formulated so that we will ‘investigate self-employed and freelancers to work out stronger income assurance rights’. It also states that we will ‘improve the health insurance system, including for self-employed workers’. It's in two different locations on the Hurdal platform. I think it's both – and, to say it that way. As I said to the previous replicator, I think it's also important that we look at the relationship between real employees and formal employees. With regard to this scheme, freelancers have been mentioned several times, but most recipients of the scheme – up to 98 pst. – have been self-employed and not freelancers in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2977	I agree with the Council of State that there are important divisions and important arrangements that need to be made before they come into place, but I believe that the Council of State has also noticed that in the cultural sector in particular we have seen that this is a very big problem that has been uncovered under the pandemic, which is important for the whole cultural sector with the way it is built up. According to the answer, I interpret it this way – and hope the Council of State can confirm it – that when it comes to strengthening sick pay rights, the government is clear that one will. So the plural note from the government party is that not only does one have to figure out but a "will" strengthens social rights for self-employed people. That's what the government party and the plurality of the Stortinget have said and placed an order for the government. It is important for me to know that it is also the starting point of the Council of State – one will strengthen the social rights of self-employed people, not just to determine whether to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2982	I feel that I answered this question instead, so that's why I want to comment a little bit about that with freelancers, because we've all been quite concerned about that and seen clearly. Among other things, put the focus on this related to the strike that was last spring, when cultural workers were on it. I think it is important to point out that in relation to this compensation scheme for self-employed and freelancers, it was 98 pst. which was self-employed and a small proportion of freelancers. Most of them came from the taxi industry. In the case of freelancers, it is also the case that whether they have been in a rental relationship and have received a salary for it, you have equal rights to daily allowances because it is paid, by the employer, a fee for this. There are several different balances that we have to take, but the goal is probably the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2988	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e2995	Sick business is an incredibly important part of Norwegian working life. It is important for fishermen, craftsmen, farmers, taxi drivers, truck drivers and artists to take some. Those who are self-employed have a much higher risk than employees. One has in many cases to pledge his private assets and houses, and there are many who refuse to do so. What many people are also concerned about is that you have a much worse security of disease than your employees have. In the Hurdal platform, it is under Innovation, simplification and business start-ups: ‘exploring and improving social arrangements for self-employed persons’. So it means – to the representative from the left – that one will improve the social systems, and it is important to give priority here. The rights of our own and children's disease are what most people are concerned about that we should give priority to. Regeninga Solberg improved the coverage of sea-going traders from 65 to 80 pst. from October 2019. It was a change that had full support from the Center Party. When we talk about these percentages, it's important to be aware that the employees have a sick pay that gives 100 pst. coverage in relation to wages and salaries from the first day. In the case of sea-going traders, there are 16 day-olds. It's 16 days when you don't have sick pay at all, that's zero coverage. As of the 17th day, today it is 80 pst. coverage. Therefore, the Hurdals platform states that one should investigate and improve – i.e. to improve the health pay system is one of the things that the Centre Party considers should and must give priority to. Sick pay for your own and children's disease can be improved by increasing the coverage. It's not a big investigation task, it's to carry on the work done under the previous government, and go on from 80 pst. to a higher percentage after the 17th day of illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3006	This is an exciting work. It's an exciting thing. A large group of self-employed and freelancers in the large cultural industry both on, around and behind the stage have had a particularly demanding time in the last two years. There has always been a risk of starting on its own and depending on obtaining income-providing assignments. Cultural workers have known about this uncertainty for all years, but they have invested and made up their minds in a way, themselves and many have had low and unstable incomes. Although there have been some improvements in the social rights of self-employed and freelancers in recent years, there are many who are struggling, especially in the beginning, before they get their company reworked. This is nothing new, but there has been extra searchlights on in connection with the pandemic, which meant that a large group suddenly lost their income overnight. I've talked to more people who say that during the pandemic they've given up, and that they've seen need to get what we call a regular job. When we also know that many cultural workers have so low income that they can't afford expensive insurance, it became even more evident that income security and social rights were inadequate. There was simply too much hole in the security network. I am pleased that the SV and the government parties gathered on an income compensation that saved many under the pandemic. Many are still struggling, but we cannot continue to live on crisis solutions. Now we are on our way back to a new everyday life, with new learning and new awareness of the challenges posed by a holed safety net for cultural workers and all other self-employed and freelancers. We have to find good, permanent solutions that give people a springboard from which they can take speed and bet, a trampoline that can give them a real lift, and a safety net without holes, that captures everyone who falls outside. When the majority now advocates investigating whether self-employed and freelancers should be able to work out stronger rights, both in terms of income security, health insurance and other social rights, it is received with optimism and expectation — and a certain amount of impatience. I share the optimism and expectations of the cultural industry and look forward to the proposals that come back to the Storting when this work is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3015	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3032	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes to each party group and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3039	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter. The case concerns, as mentioned, a proposal from the representatives of the local authorities Alfred Jens Bjørlo, Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik and André N. Skkelstad to make it easier for entrepreneurs, investors and employees from outside the EEA to establish themselves and invest in Norway. A total of 12 individual proposals have been made. In fact, Minister of Industry Jan Christian Vestre has expressed himself in a letter dated 10 February 2022 to the Committee. Governments have also answered two questions on 16 March. In addition, there has been a written hearing on the subject, which has resulted in several written contributions. A joint committee shares the view of the proposers that we as a society are dependent on innovation and innovation and that the small ideas are growing. The Committee also points out the importance of providing even better facilities for entrepreneurs, investors and employees from non-EEA countries to establish and invest in Norway. The Committee also agrees with the proposers that we need both Norwegian and foreign entrepreneurs and investors who can establish growth businesses in new green industries. The Committee has also noted that the Council of State reviews the individual points of the proposal, and that the Government does not see the need for them at present. In this review, it is also shown that the Solberg government has had a review of the subject. I now want to go over to do something for the Right's point of view. First, I want to pay tribute to the Left representatives for raising this issue, and the Right shares the intentions of the proposal that Norway should strengthen its position as an attractive and competitive country for entrepreneurs, investors and employees, and that this must not least apply to those who come from outside the EEA territory. If Norway is to do this, it's important that we have targeted, functional and good arrangements, and we have to be open so that things can be done better and more accurately than today's arrangements. However, the right point is that, in general, there will be a better and more thorough review of the measures and instruments that already exist today, before we start new initiatives and measures. We also refer here to the work that was done when the Solberg government had its review of the matter, and the government has both shown and approached in its opinion on the proposal for a representative. This is due to the fact that the right is in the process of launching a work related to precisely entrepreneurs and start-ups, the extent to which several of the questions raised in this proposal will also have to be addressed. Apart from the fact that the Right wants to get out and get more knowledge about the situation and the challenges for the industry, we also have a desire to see things in good health before we decide on individual measures. After this, we think it would not be right to follow up the suggestions that have been made. In the case of proposal No: On the other hand, where ‘The government is asked to provide a strategy to attract more international investors to Norwegian growth companies’, Right will support it. We refer here to the need for capital for growth companies, and that it is seen as a major weakness in the capital market today, which has also been highlighted in the incoming audio playback. We therefore believe that there is a basis for developing a strategy to attract more international investors to Norwegian growth companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3058	All countries that want to see growth and development depend on ordinary people with great ideas. There are already many of these people in Norway: ordinary people who will realize a big plan, common people who will create the jobs of the future – for themselves and for the community. But Norway is a small, open economy in international competition. Foreign impulses and solutions are important for the further development of Norwegian business. If we are to focus on developing and shifting towards a renewable society, we are dependent on Norway also being able to attract highly skilled labour from abroad. Norway is the country of opportunity. We have a diverse world-class instrument that already provides advice and support to large and small enterprises in development, change and growth. In addition, we have the world’s best welfare state, a social security network that allows ordinary people – regardless of background – to bet on their idea. We provide internationally competitive and predictable frameworks for people to set up new businesses, scale up existing ones and create more jobs. This government knows that it's urgent to convert the Norwegian economy. After eight lost years of big words and festivities, the rate of conversion is low. I can commend the proposer behind the proposal for a representative, but it seems rather populistic from the proposal-making party, who until recently managed both the Ministry of Industry and the Norwegian agency itself, and who is responsible for leaving behind a miles of procedural queue for residence permits. Fortunately, the new government is doing well to clean up, but that takes time. Founders, start-ups and skilled workers are absolutely necessary for our country to evolve, for the economy to grow, and for us to create more secure, green jobs for ordinary people around the country. The Workers' Party-Center Party government is working every day to give companies the right skills, to provide the necessary assistance and support, and to enable good ideas to grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3069	Access to capital and competence is crucial for the creation of value-creating jobs and enterprises. In Norway – as most people know – we have a lot of capital, although it is not always allocated to the best or most profitable projects. However, it is fully possible to do something about it at home, for example with regard to tax incentives and other framework conditions. Among other things, we are proposing today that the system of capital finding should be extended so that more Norwegians invest in start-up businesses that can grow large and strong. But as I said, capital itself is not the biggest challenge in Norway. However, in terms of competence, it looks worse. Norway is a large country in the area, but with few people. The demography is challenging and is going to get even worse in the decades to come. Usually we have thought about the crafts and health and care professions when it comes to the importation of labour. Although it remains the main focus, we are also increasingly in need of more highly skilled technological labour in Norway. Many of these are creative; they often start businesses, create innovations, create value-creating jobs and businesses – just what we need more in Norway. Today, it is simply through the EEA Agreement for European citizens to come to Norway and develop their idea, but coming from South Africa, India or the United States is more difficult. Over the years, there are several examples of impeccable people who have been expelled because of too square rules in this area. Unlike many comparable countries in Europe, such as Estonia, Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands, Norway does not take any significant steps to make it as simple as possible to be a founder or investor as a non-European citizen. The previous government didn't do much for this group either. Despite both fine wordings in the government statement and pressure from the Progress Party in Stortinget, the work stopped. It also noted the Workers' Party several times, but now that they themselves are in position, it is forgotten, and it is ‘business as usual’. The Minister of Economic Affairs Vestre, with his active industrial policy and desire to export, could set a good example here and meet the entrepreneurial and start-up environment in Norway. These are the ones that are losing on this backward attitude; it's not the opposition in the Storting. But that's of course also the government finances in the short term. These are proposals that I am now considering, and which are essentially not costing the whole world. They give considerable room for action to the government in the formulation of concrete proposals, and they address a specific problem that unfortunately is not a political will to solve. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3080	The representative then addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3085	It is not often the Progress Party and the Left is shoulder to shoulder in a debate on immigration, but we are doing so here today. It is strange and a little surprising to put the right from the Right and the Labour Party in the debate today, in this case about the Left's proposals to make Norway a more attractive country for entrepreneurs, investors and employees from outside the EEA to establish and invest in. They say a lot of nice words, while the Labour Party and the Right will vote against almost all the proposals. What this matter is about is not specific details – it is serious. It's about Norway having to be able to open up a little bit more to people from other countries in order to be able to close down with the enormous nutrient transition we're going through in the years that are coming. I hope that the members of the UK Labour Party and the Right have actually read the many listening recordings from a collection of Founders', Startups' and Economics' Norway that today it is not well-placed to allow entrepreneurs and workers with special skills from outside the EEA to establish themselves in Norway. I would have hoped that it would make a certain impression when 150 central people in the Norwegian startup environment joined forces with us in saying that the current immigration system does not work in practice for talent who wants to build future jobs in Norway, and where they are asking us to take the first steps towards a founding visa now. I had hoped it would make sense to read the Oslo region intermunicipal political councils say research on how international students, employees and others who have moved here experience coming to and living in our country. They found should make all the alarm clocks ring. These people, whom we desperately need to build future Norway, feel like second-class citizens in a country that doesn't want them to be here and that state bureaucracy prevents them from meeting, are designed to shut out those who are most in demand from business. They experience month-long queues, misleading information, poor customer care and an experienced reluctance to international people. We've simply stood up so that the people from abroad that we need to get society to go around and build future Norway, today are being treated by the Norwegian state that ran out of machinery, not as part of the machine. So it's hard to understand that the plurality in this room of today's system works perfectly well and provides good opportunities for people from outside the EEA, and that we don't have to rock by the system. I just have to cause, President, but the world, Norway and thousands of international talent don't have time to wait anymore. We need a founding visa and other measures for a more open and friendly Norway towards those who will come here and be with and build the future, and we need it now. The working party and the Right stand up for the system. The left and second parties that are with us on proposals here today stand up for people. The struggle for a more open and more friendly Norway towards people from outside is not over here today. That fight is going to keep the Left and other good forces going, and we're going to win. I include the proposal No. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3100	The representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3105	The government greatly appreciates the attention and involvement of entrepreneurs and growth enterprises. It's an engagement we share. If we are to claim in international competition, we must attract foreign talents, and then, of course, we should not create unnecessary obstacles for people, even from outside the EEA territory, who choose to come to Norway with ideas, competences, networks and knowledge of foreign markets that we sorely need in our green business transition. We need these resources, we need to realize the high ambitions that we all have, whether it's export or new green value chains. As Minister of Industry, I have also been inspired to meet the environments we have in the ecosystem for entrepreneurs and start-ups across our country, and I can testify that the foreign talents are well represented with many of these. Yes, we need more of these founders, but that's not what the discussion is about for me. The proposal for the creation of a separate system of so-called "funding visas" has already been widely assessed, even when the Left Party controlled the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. It was then considered an inappropriate solution, as the foreign legislation is currently being built up. In addition, it is demanding to see the basis for such a scheme, all the time already available under current legislation for granting a residence permit to competent self-employed persons from outside the EEA territory. The requirements of the legislation today for a residence permit are not unreasonable, and simplifications were made in the autumn to facilitate better those who want to come here and who we want to welcome with open arms. I share the Committee's view that it can be even better facilitated, but that a founding visa is not the answer. The Government will be attractive to be a founder in Norway, whether it is Norwegian talent, EEA talent or non-EEA talent. In a broader perspective, the overall package of Norwegian society has to offer is important. I am therefore concerned that the overall framework conditions we offer to entrepreneurs and growers in Norway are as good as possible. In my opinion, we are on the right track. It has become easier to start a business in Norway. There are few obstacles for foreign citizens, and they can get support through an already good tool that we are now working to make even more accurate and even easier to find. It is a good ecosystem for start-up businesses, and here both public and private actors make a valuable effort. So we absolutely support the ambition to get more entrepreneurs here. We want strong capital environments. We want as many as possible in the green shift, but we think we can do that by improving the existing arrangements, rather than spending time making new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3118	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3123	The Council of State said in its statement that the group we are talking about should not be hindered, i.e. the founders of outside the EEA area, but that is exactly what this group is experiencing today. The Committee's input has also been shown. As Bjørlo was involved, 150 individuals related to the start-up and start-up environment have expressed their views, as well as a number of organisations related to the start-up environment in Norway. And not one of them, either of the individuals or the groups, says it's good the way it is today. What are these people who don't understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3129	I have also spoken to many of the hearing actors, and I feel that everyone is impatient, among others. in the case of time spent in proceedings for obtaining a residence permit. They want us to be better at providing good information on how it is to establish ourselves in Norway, to have more digital platforms that make it easier to register a company, to get a D-number quickly, to set up a bank account, to get in touch with the various public agencies, and not least to have one door into the public agency. We are now working intensively on all of this within the framework we have. I would also like to add that it is fully possible for both entrepreneurs and other self-employed people from outside the EEA to obtain a residence permit in Norway. Curious demands are being made, including: on entertainment. And with the changes that were made last year, it's even easier. We would like to consider more measures, but then I am busy getting to the goal quickly within the framework we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3136	That is precisely why many proposals are being promoted here today, to speed up the target. What is sad is that the party of the Council of State agrees to vote on those proposals – all as one. When the Council of State mentions getting D numbers faster, it's just one of the suggestions we're promoting, that we're going to work on getting D numbers faster, but it's the Labour Party down here today. I would like to ask if what the West said at the end of its article, namely that it can be added even better to this group. I would then like to ask: what concrete measures are the Council of State taking to facilitate even better entrepreneurs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3143	I'd like to answer that one more time. We are concerned with speeding up the process. We are committed to using the operating room we have to grant a residence permit to both entrepreneurs and other self-employed persons. It is not all the world's demands. We're busy with good information in many languages. We work closely with the Brønnøsund registers to create digital platforms that will make it much easier to set up a business, set up a bank account and get started quickly. And we've already launched the digital platform A door in, which is going to make it much easier for start-ups too to access the over 18 different state-owned operators we have, who manage over 180 programs in total. In sum, this will make it easier. And I would like to stress again that we like to take new input into what can be done even better, but it is therefore to open doors to propose a business visa, which really does not imply anything more than the current rules on residence permits contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3150	I notice that the Council of State from the Labour Party believes that a founding visa is not the answer. Then it's a little interesting that the Labour Party before the election, while the party was in opposition, thought that the answer to this question was: Founder's visa. In 2016, in response to questions about this challenge, the impending next-leader and current poacher Hadia Tajik said: ‘We look at several things, including a separate business visa for non-residents to work in Norwegian start-up companies [...] With such a visa, entrepreneurs can acquire the international competence they need [...]’ The last time in the election campaign in 2021, Terje Aasland, current Minister of Oil and Energy, says that the Labour Party has taken the order for a Nordic talent recruitment programme: ‘It is absolutely exciting to think of schemes as an entrepreneurial visa as part of such a Nordic programme.’ The Labour Party thought the founding visa was a good idea in 2016, and they thought it was a good idea in 2021. What has changed in 2022, which means that the Labour Party is now not my founding visa is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3164	I am concerned that we should pursue a pragmatic industrial policy based on real needs. We do not put any prestige in which proposals previous governments have neither investigated nor proposed, and we are also willing to change the viewpoint along the way. When this representative proposal came in, we went into it thoroughly. I have been concerned about assessing it properly, not least because I share the representatives' views on how important it is that Norway should be an attractive nation for entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and self-employed people. But when we go into this and see that with today's legislation and some improvements to it, we can achieve the same without creating new bureaucratic special rules with a so-called entrepreneurial visa, I'm more concerned with what takes us faster to the goal than with what might appear to be a little bit simple symbol policy. This proposal was carefully investigated a few months ago, when the Left controlled the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and there may have been a reason why the previous government, with the Left in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, chose not to promote it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3173	The department will have the honour to give a very thorough and good response to the committee on the way, with information on what one has done, what the status is, and what other countries do. What we do, among other things, is that very many countries in the Nordic region and elsewhere in Europe now have different visa arrangements for start-up companies and entrepreneurs. The Ministry itself states that 16 countries in Europe – 16 of the 27 EU Member States – currently offer different types of special visa arrangements to entrepreneurs, including all other Nordic countries – Denmark, Sweden and Finland – and that applies to Estonia, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and other countries. They have their own design programs for start-up companies and entrepreneurs. What is Norway's understanding that these countries don't understand, which points to this bet and does it. As I see it, there is also a collective desire from Startup and Founder Norway to get a bite [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3180	We should definitely look at what other countries do and learn from their experiences, both good and bad. Several of the countries referred to have a business visa, but they also require a residence permit to take up work, in order to be an entrepreneur, in order to establish their own business. Then you can ask yourself what is the real effect of such a measure in addition to what appears to be a pleasant measure, a symbolic measure, to which it is, of course, easy to join. I am concerned that we should properly facilitate the entrepreneurs, and then we should work together to see what obstacles we can adjust within today's legislation. Today’s legislation on residence permits is therefore not in the way that entrepreneurs and other self-employed people can come to Norway. We have a lot of examples of that. I've even met a lot of these entrepreneurs, who do a great job, but then we have to have better information for them, make better sense. We don't need new special rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3187	I believe that we all want to put in place a code that attracts more people who want to contribute and bet in Norway. I think that's a goal that we're all a few of us about, that we need it. I hear the Council of State say that he thinks today's legislation is really good enough, but at the same time we see that all organisations working with Startup-Noreg, the startup company, feel that it is not working well enough today. There's some kind of mismatch here that we're forced to solve. As the representative of Bjørnstad quite correctly says, we have tried to put forward a number of proposals on this, together with twelve proposals, where the Government Party and the Labour Party believe that none of the twelve proposals is the right one. The Council of State says that there will be continuous work and that new proposals will be made. Can he give some examples of actions he wants to come, and when does he realize that they will actually catch up to what Startup-Noreg himself says, namely that today's system is not going to work well enough for those we want to come to the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3196	We have some challenges, but those challenges don't get any better by creating new special schemes that don't really solve the problems. I would like to respond for the third time to what measures we want to take. We need to have the capacity to process the case, so that we can obtain a residence permit more quickly. We need to get faster D numbers for new people coming here so they can set up a bank account. We're already working closely with the Brønnøsund registers for a complete digital experience, I'd say, to be able to start the business, get the account started, get the systems up, so this gets easier. We've already delivered a door to the instrument, which makes it considerably easier, and we're going to make more information in more languages for entrepreneurs, how they get here, how they find out in the Norwegian bureaucracy, and not least how we can help them even better. If the representative or other representatives have more concrete input into what we can do, we will, of course, listen to it and want to take more action as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3205	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3224	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions by members of the government. And those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3231	First of all, it is right to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. As it emerges from the vote, promoted by the Labour Party, the Right and the Centre parties, the proposal will not have a majority in the Chamber. I expect that these parties themselves will explain their views through later articles. It can be concluded that Norway is a slowdown when it comes to using new drugs. It means that with today's system, sick people die while waiting for help, and many live with great pains that could have been solved if they had access to these drugs. For us in the Progress Party, it is important to make changes to the system for approving new medicines in Norway, a system where patients are given priority over money or savings. One who suffers from the rigid system of the Decision Forum is Christian Lawley from Bergen. Christian has the disease cystic fibrosis, which makes him have a severely reduced lung capacity. He went from being an active man who loved to run, to having a lung capacity that can be compared to breathing through a suction tube. Fortunately for Christian, there is a medicine that can strengthen his lung capacity, but unfortunately Norway is one of the few countries in Europe that does not offer this medicine to their patients. The reason is that the decision-making forum considers it too expensive, despite the fact that Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. Christian has taken up a loan, and there have been split-ups in order for him to be able to buy the medicine from his own pocket. It costs him over 300,000 dollars a month. As if that's not bad enough, the health director in Bergen has decided that Christian won't even get to buy the medicine for his own money anymore. It actually seems completely absurd. For Christian, this means that he has to move to Denmark, so that he can get the medicine and live a normal life with his partner and their newborn child. It cannot be that in Norway you have to move to other countries to have medicines that help you breathe. Decision-making forums put money and economics, not only in the first row, but also in the second and third rows. In fact, patients seem to be coming to the end. Our system does not allow Christian to breathe. And that applies not only to him, but unfortunately many, many, more, because decision-making forums think it's too expensive. There should only be a lack of the Stortinge to evaluate the decision-making forum for new treatment methods. It's about giving Norwegian sick the help they deserve. I bring this up with me the proposals of the Progress Party are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3254	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then drew up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3259	Medical development is at record speed, and new drugs and methods are being rolled out into the world at an increasing pace. That's great. However, it is also important that, as a society, we have a body that, on a professional basis and on the basis of predefined criteria, will decide on the methods to be used in Norway. In 2020, the analysis agency Proba Social Analysis was entrusted with the task of evaluating the New Approaches system for the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Tests found in their analysis that there is broad support for the basics of the system, but also several challenges were raised in the technical report on no less than 260 pages. Among other things, transparency and trust in the system need to be improved, it takes too long to introduce new methods, and both clinicians and users can be significantly more involved in the decision-making process. Based on the Labour Party and the Centre Party, the Government has consistently demonstrated that there are challenges with the Decision Forum, and has therefore written the following in the Hurdal Platform: ‘Making changes to the system for introducing new methods into healthcare to reduce treatment time, ensure trust in the system and give users and professionals a stronger voice’. It's almost like hearing an echo from the Proba report's conclusions, and I'm delighted. At the same time, a new prioritisation notice has been notified, which will also look at personalised medicine and its transparency and reprobability. However, when the Workers' Party and the Center are opposed to the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party to get the Proba evaluation to be discussed in the Stortinget, it is not because we are against knowledge or against debate. Nevertheless, it is essential that any treatment in this room of this report could lead to concrete measures. If not, the trust in the system will tear us down further and not be built up. Proba itself points out that the report is more descriptive and open on the road than concrete measures that can be quickly converted into policy decisions. That's one of the points that makes us not voting for this today. The most important thing for us in the Workers' Party and the Center Party is time. The decision-making forum for new methods and the conclusion from there, as the representative Hoksrud said, is too vital. This report must therefore be followed up as quickly as possible and the decision-making forum must be revised and improved as soon as possible. For this reason, the government has already addressed this issue and is following up several elements with the regional health enterprises and underlying agencies. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the procedure period must be reduced, users and clinicians should be invited in and transparency increased. This work must be stopped in its ultimate consequence – or at least it will lead to delays – if this report is to reach its full width in Stortinget. A few weeks ago, we had a debate on the panel of experts here in the Chamber. From the minority it was used as the main argument that many of the patients involved have very limited time left, and that they need rapid clarifications. We fully agree with that in the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, also in the case of those who are waiting for approval of the new medical methods here to land. That is why we do not support the proposal for a representative today, but we are looking forward to the processes that have been initiated by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3279	The decision-making forum for new methods is about Norwegian patients’ access to new medicines. The main features of that system are widespread support. It is important that we have a national system that works effectively, because we need to ensure patients in Norway as quickly as possible access to new medicines. It's about life, and it's about quality of life. Now the system has been evaluated. The report has serious findings, which point to the need for major improvements. In the Right, we believe it is clearly the government's responsibility to follow up on the report's findings and recommendations, and we therefore ask the government to return to the Stortinget at the latest in the budget for 2023. Both in the report, in its recordings and in the debate afterwards, there is a lack of trust in the system. In the future, it is particularly important to work to increase confidence in the New Approach system in patients, patient organisations and industry. Greater transparency and transparency in the treatment process are highlighted by many, and it is worth listening to these recordings. The medical association is clear that the importance of including more clinicians earlier in and throughout the process is important. These are the professionals who stand close to the patients and have valuable knowledge. The Medical Association believes that strengthening the involvement of clinicians early and throughout the process could reduce the treatment time in the New Methods system and could also reduce the need to clean up after decisions in discussions. Patient organisations are also concerned with participation and involvement. The right, therefore, calls on the government to ensure increased user and clinician involvement in the New Methods system. The pharmaceutical industry is an important trader, but it is also an incredibly important partner in securing new medicines for patients. The fact that Norway spends the longest time of Scandinavian countries and countries it is natural to compare with is serious, and it is very understandable that both patients and health professionals feel despair about this. In the right we believe that the government in its follow-up to the evaluation report must note that industry feels that dialogue and cooperation are more difficult in Norway than in other countries. Then I must say that I am surprised that none of the other parties support our proposal, no. 5, that the government must ensure that the four policy objectives are followed and weighted equally in the decisions of the New Approach system. Several of the hearing bodies point out that the lowest price and the lowest economy appear to be a target that is weighted higher than the other three. It is the Stortinge that has decided that we should have four equivalent medical policy objectives. The lowest possible price is one of them, but ensuring good quality of treatment, ensuring quick access to effective medicines and facilitating research and innovation are the next. It is clear to the right that these criteria are to be weighted equally. So that no more parties support it is alarming, but it is still possible to turn to voting on Thursday. With that, I take up all the Right proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3298	Then the representative, Tone Wilhelmsen, drew up the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3303	The decision-making forum for new methods is a framework and current regulatory regime established by the previous government, including: the votes of the proposers. If one looks back at the lawbook that was being handled in this Chamber in December 2019, a plural from the Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party ensured that New methods and ownership were added to the regional health services. This majority voiced that Stortinget should not have direct ownership of the Decision Forum. The absent State Council expressed very clearly the objectives of the Health and Welfare Committee: «to provide regional health establishments with a common system to determine the methods to be offered in the specialist health service.» The same plurality expressed and followed up with note at that time: ‘The majority agree with the proposal to legislate that regional health establishments provide a common system’. It is therefore not going to be very consistent and rather clumsy to present this representative proposal for the Storting, as one has now done. The central party and the Labour Party, together with the Socialist Left Party, were clearly opposed to this legal regulation and warned that it was unwise to base the existing regulation on how New Methods worked at that time. We felt that this system lacked sufficient and necessary legitimacy, and the parties asked for and stressed an evaluation. I am therefore pleased that one with a new government and with the Minister of Health and Care at the rudder takes the evaluation report very seriously. The Hurdal Declarations provide a basis for system change and substantial improvement by bringing down procedural time, ensuring trust in the system and giving users and professionals a stronger voice. It also expresses the Council of State in its dialogue with the Stortinget, and we look forward to a holistic case for dealing with how this can be ensured better for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3322	Trust in the system is an important value in our society. Most people in our country get the help and treatment they need. The development of new medicines is a long canvas to bleach, with long and many important processes and controls. It is an even longer work to get the medicine into use in the treatment of Norwegian patients. The assessments made in the system New methods have variable to a small degree of confidence. What is an important value in our society has a variable and a small value. There's a weakness with the system. The representative Hans Inge Myrvold forgot one thing when this was adopted. When the Stortinget decided that we should have New Methods, it was agreed that it should be an evaluation. And why should we have an evaluation? It's to improve what's weak – nothing else. Here one shows that one has no trust. The closed processes provided by the decision-making forum and the lack of willingness to discuss the public evaluation and what has been found there are weaknesses that do not promote confidence. It promotes distrust and inhibits trust. We need a system that ensures equal treatment and not least equal access. We have to trust the system, but then we also have to submit trust – that we can talk about it. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the best thing is to see what we have found in the evaluation, and what we want to do with it. That was the starting point for this proposal. I am thus addressing the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3335	The representative, Mr Vervik Bollestad, then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3340	Health regions, through the New Approach system, are responsible for assessing the knowledge base and taking decisions on the introduction of new treatments in the specialist healthcare system. This system helps to design health services in hospitals by contributing to good quality, improved patient safety and efficient resource use. I believe that a system of such an important mandate should be developed continuously and in line with medical-technological developments. After the government received the evaluation last autumn, health regions and agencies received a package of assignments and guidance for the development of New Methods. The effort is targeted at four areas. These include reducing the processing time, ensuring greater inclusion of patients and professionals, more transparency and predictability, and improving the assessment of medical devices. We'll get a report on that work for the fall. We need an open debate on how to ensure good and transparent priorities in the specialist health service. It is clearly shown in the evaluation and input made in connection with this proposal for a representative. In the Hurdal platform, we have committed ourselves to providing a new big message of priority. I will facilitate the contribution of all relevant actors to this work from start to finish. The Probas report will be an important starting point for this work. I believe that a deliberation of this report from Proba will work against its purpose. It can prevent us from moving quickly on to the follow-up of the things that are urgent, while at the same time the government has already set the stage for the broad, principled debate many here want. Therefore, I believe that the evaluation should be followed up by missions to the health regions and departments and by a new prioritisation notice during this majorisation period. In this way, we can ensure predictability and progress in work, and at the same time raise important issues of principle in the alerted prioritisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3354	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3359	We think it is nice that the government has announced that they will be working on a new priority message. There is also something on the right. In the case and the position that we are dealing with today, the Right proposes that work be started on a new notification of medicinal products. The size of the device has been well-treated with pharmaceutical reports for approx. every ten years. The previous one came in 2015, but we know that in this area there is a very rapid development, and we believe there is a need to deal with a new drug notification during this majority period. I'd like to hear what the council thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3364	I believe that the medical report that Stortinget dealt with back in 2015 or 2016 – I have to remember – was very good, and that the policy there is still very relevant. They are four policy objectives. It is that treatment with medicinal products should be of good quality and that it should be the lowest price possible. It's important because then we also give access to treatment for as much as possible. Equivalent and rapid access shall be provided. Here in Norway, in comparison with many other countries, it is that when a new medicinal product is taken, it becomes available to all patients. The fourth objective is to facilitate research and innovation. There is an increased number of clinical studies in government ambition. We have not taken the initiative for a new message, either on the Hurdal platform or outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3371	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. Although the government has not yet mentioned it, it can take along the proposal that we believe it is important to start this work. The years go by quickly, and there's also a lot going on in this area. The Council of State mentioned the four policy objectives in its response to me, and, as I also said in my speech, I am surprised that the Committee and the Council do not see the need for these four objectives to also be relevant to the introduction of new medicines. I am very pleased that the Council of State is concerned about it. I also hope that the Council of State will take it into account in the follow-up to the evaluation and ensure that when new methods are to assess new medicinal products, they are different from all four objectives and not just to the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3378	I can confirm that all four medicinal policy objectives form the basis. We have also shown this when the Workers' Party has previously ruled, that research and innovation have been used to make new medicines available. Of course, we want to get the number of clinical studies, which is important, but then there is more at the trial stage. We also want attention to be paid to the quality of treatment, because we know that medicines are a major and important part of the treatment offered, both in the specialist healthcare service, in primary health care and to chroniclers, who in many ways both extract and use their own medicines under their own knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3383	Decisions in decision-making forums are important for patients. It can be from fantastic faith and hope to actual sorrows, as decided forums fall upon. Many patients experience that they are not authorized the drugs they have asked for. Then you want to buy the drugs yourself, and experience, as Kristian experienced, that you don't get to buy them through the health company. And then you feel that you, like others, have to pay this for yourself, but you think it's unreasonable that you have to pay VAT and pay to the state for something you don't really get the state to cover, and that it would be natural for the state to cover. Does the Council of State think it's okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3388	Firstly, I think the representative knows that the Council of State cannot comment on the individual patient's desire to act on medicinal products. But I also think the representative of Hoksrud simplifies this quite considerably. If you were to trade the medicine representative Hoksrud chooses to use as an example, you would also have to know the price. When referring to other countries that have used drugs, it is a challenge that we have no idea what the other countries have paid for this drug. My goal, as a health minister, is to get the most transparency about pricing medicines, so that we can become a better and more demanding customer on behalf of our patients, and so secure effective medicines for the patients we are responsible for in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3393	I understand that the Council of State is concerned that the state should pay, but the one that matters is most concerned about getting medicine. In fact, it's unfair that the same state that says that you don't get this because we think the cost is too high in relation to what it gives quality of life, so it's okay to pay VAT. But I want to challenge the State Council further, because the Labour Party representative in the pulpit said that if the Stortinget would choose to say that you want and have an evaluation here in Stortinget, yes, then you can do nothing more. I still believe and will challenge the Council of State whether she agrees that even if this matter should come to Stortinget, there is no doubt that one can make good improvements even before it comes, and in connection with the fact that it comes to Stortinget, in order to prevent you from spending more time. Because there's one thing at least the Progress Party is concerned about, it's the patients, and then we want something to happen quickly with this with the Decision Forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3400	I got this report in mid-November 2021. I would like to have it on my table when I joined. In the previous magnification period, the Stortinge, i.e. the opposition, was impatient after the system of new methods had to be evaluated. The Progress Party set up at that time in my department with a State Council, both when the system of new methods was legislated and when this evaluation was ordered. We've been working fast. We have put out a follow-up in a package for both regional health businesses and agencies, and we get a good news on that work already in the autumn. It has never happened that an advisory report commissioned by a department as a knowledge base for the department's responsibilities has been submitted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3407	The council said before Christmas she wanted to be a health minister, not a pandemic minister. Taking care of the trust in the system is an important matter for a health minister. Patients are incredibly concerned about having confidence in their doctor, trust in their nurse, trust in the caregiver throughout their lives. We like to push it over to health businesses, but we are politicians who put the framework for it. Then my question is: What does the Council of State mean – or thinks – about how to gain trust in a system that is closed, that does not give trust but distrust, and where the decision is taken by four directors of the companies that are now to be responsible for boosting confidence in getting the transparency and transparent trust that we need in society in order to gain confidence in new methods?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3412	We need an open debate on how to ensure good and transparent priorities in the specialist healthcare service. I'm going to take personal responsibility for that. It shows the evaluation, and it also shows the recordings that have been made in connection with this proposal for a representative. In the Hurdal platform, we have committed ourselves to providing a new big message of priority, and we have also committed ourselves to ensuring a rapid follow-up to the evaluation of new methods. Then I have to say that I am a little surprised by the anger and indignation I am meeting from the representative of Bollestad here. This is a system that was legislated while the representative Bollestad was in government. This is a system that was not then evaluated, nor did it work in a different way than it does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3420	I'm not hurt, but I'm engaged on behalf of Norwegian patients, who don't have access – nor in the debate we're going to have. We do not have a public debate on what the evaluation now shows. That is what I want, because when we decided that we should have new methods, we adopted an evaluation at the same time. For me, an evaluation is to see if we've done what we're supposed to do, right – and possibly improve. Then my thought and reluctance with this proposal is just to open the debate to create confidence. How will the Council of State build confidence when it comes to not coming here with the evaluation – how to create confidence in those who make the decisions and in patients who are to receive the treatment and be sure that they receive an equivalent treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3425	I'm going to add up to a wide and open process until Stortinget deals with a new priority message. There is one of the most public things you can do: provide a big message about health care priorities. It will lead the system of new methods, it will lead all health care priorities, and it will be the size that treats it. The Proba report is public, I have participated in many public vocabulary and debates on it already, and I also invite the representative of Bollestad to do so. The representative, Mr Bollestad, in this proposal for a representative, is that we should present an evaluation report to the Stortinget, and I disagree with that. I think it's unforgiving. I believe it is my constitutional responsibility to present well-informed cases to the Stortinget – not an external, purchased evaluation report.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3432	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3437	I had to speak after the representative from the Right wondered why no one else in the Storting would support proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox Our reason for not wanting to support proposal No. 5, is that it may actually be that you want to do some other priorities as well, because it's actually about patients, and that's important. We've now had decision-making forums for new methods, but we've seen the consequences. For the Progress Party, we want to see if we should perhaps do what we do in our neighbouring country, where there are more people involved in the decisions being made, and where the user organisations are also part of it. We're busy looking at how to provide patients with the best possible care, and that patients who need medication should get them as quickly as possible. And you might want to have some discussions about the four that are equal, and where the right still wants it to be equal. It's not safe we're there. I react very much when I meet many patients who are not being treated because the decision-making forum refuses – on the basis that they believe that the costs are too high in relation to the effect it has on patients. So these are many patients who can get a far, far better life. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that we have to act, and we believe that the Danish model or other models are something we should look at. Why is it that if you live in one of our neighbouring countries, you have to get the kind of medicine that we see there is a screaming need for? As I said in the change of lines with the Council of State, this is about that for some people it may be a pleasure when you get a decision, but it may also be to tear apart all hope and all the faith in the future. That's what this is about, and that's what's important to have in this debate. That's why we have to look at how to make a better decision and make sure that we can use new, good medicines that give people better quality of life and life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3446	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3463	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government. And those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3470	This case has received a solid treatment in Stortinget for the second time. We have had extensive consultations with many actors, and I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the matter. The position of the working party in this case is known and has been known for quite some time. We don't want to decriminalize use and possession for everyone. We want a system where use and possession are decriminalised because they have a drug addiction, as we are now investigating. But we want a much broader approach to the drugs field. Too many people experience going outside, falling out of school or work, having mental challenges they don't deal with on their own. We need to strengthen prevention and to strengthen mental health through a stepping-up plan. We know that there are too many people who do not get the health care they need, that they do not feel that the treatment is working well enough. That is why we need to strengthen the treatment. We know that too many people experience that they don't get the follow-up, the help and the possibilities they need after treatment. We have to have a post-employment protection that gives decent living conditions, where you are included, get the opportunity to work, school and study. The reform we are dealing with today does not mention this. Too many times, we have seen that measures have been taken in the drug field that have ended up piece by piece and split. It'll be a great advantage if we can see things in context. The Workers' Party-Centre-Registration is in progress. We have now started work on our prevention and treatment reform. We have strengthened the economy of hospitals and municipalities. We need to expand the LAR offer, and at the beginning of the month we opened a trial project for heroin-assisted treatment. We know that there are very great needs, and we need to continue to strengthen prevention and treatment. Last week I was visiting the Department of Oslo. There we met with experience consultant Adnan, who works out looking to provide people with help. The dissertation helps us meet more people, help people to work, school and study opportunities. Through the Labour Party-led Oslo, a number of robust measures have been taken to prevent and help young people where they are. We have to do more of this with enough resources. Yesterday I was visiting the Lillestrøm Gates. The street layer gives a arena where people get the opportunity to master, to be part of the community, both within the Gate Layer and in the club as a whole. The players told me that they were rushing less, that they were experiencing a better life. The street layers are good examples of work that we have to do more of. Russwork is a whole line of work, which is about people who have drug problems being a staff stick in the system, who experience being lifted and given treatment that is related. If you fall, you should be picked up, not rejected. Prevention and treatment reform will help to ensure that more people are seen and included through better prevention, and that more people are helped, that fewer people fall out and return after treatment has ended. I look forward to this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3493	We still need a drug reform. I can see that for a long time, many people thought it had to be like this that we were going to punish people for using illegal drugs. We're bottled up with that idea, the whole crowd, because we've always punished people for drug use – and drugs are dangerous. But it can no longer be defended. Now today's criminal policy against better knowledge. Today's policies contribute to the establishment of stigmas, contribute to the continuation of discrimination and to the strengthening of social differences, and push people further away from the auxiliaries. I understand that for the Workers' Party and the Center Party it is more comfortable to talk about a reform that you do not know the content of, than to discuss what is on the table today, which they vote against. But punishment is the strongest instrument we have. We have to be able to explain why punishing individuals is more positive for society than it is harmful to the one we punish. We cannot feel that it is right to punish young people for drug use because we are concerned about a signal effect. It does not keep believing that it is the right thing to do because it knows that drug use can be harmful. Good intentions aren't good enough. Today's policy meant that when a 15-year-old girl reported rape in 2018, the rape was ordered, but she received a fine of NOK 4000 to smoke hash. The evidence found the police on the same cell phone they went through to find evidence of rape. Her father said to VG that after two months without proper follow-up, hashish appeared as the only alternative to suicide for his girl. Here comes some of my point – for let's say that punishment has a preventative effect: Who is it punishment scares away from drug use? Young people who have experienced trauma and have mental disorders and who are self-medication or who are using drugs to escape from reality have not been scared to use drugs. In other words, the gang there is going to continue to punish because one suspects that it can be preventative for the more resource-intensive young people. Punishment and threats of punishment push young people further away from auxiliaries, and it strikes out socially very crooked. It's not a policy we can stand for. In the drug reform, we are proposing decriminalisation for everyone, and I know that there is disagreement. But what do the parties that will only exempt addicts from punishment say? Well, they tell young people and others that you need to get sicker, more dependent and get your life more ruined before you get help from us. At some point, we get a drug reform where we stop punishing people for drug use. It's just so inward sin that we have to wait even longer. With this I take up the suggestions that the Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3506	The representative Sandra Bruflot has then drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3511	I'm glad that a united nation sees that the time has come for a new direction, a new drug policy and a new care. The time has come for us all to see that becoming restless is a heavy and long-lasting battle. Too many people, in fact, are fighting their lives. As a society, we have to put all the cloths on so that as many as possible can make it possible to become free. If there is no first or second attempt or next attempt, we still have to make sure that we have good offers that can help and help. The goal of everything we do in this building must be for people to have a good life. Unfortunately, we see that the drug reform that is being discussed today, which was discussed last year, does not come with cloths, more or better. As a society and as a fellow human being, if we are to be closed down to help, we need a policy that sees the whole life situation of people. Racism is socially biased. Social and economic problems and psychological plagues can make people vulnerable to addiction to legal and illegal drugs. So today, as last year, we are discussing a proposal without proposals for measures that can help the whole life situation of people, and there are no proposals to help people who have challenges with legal drugs, such as drugs. alcohol and preparations such as OxyNorm or Sobril, sleeping pills or other prescription products. What we need is a strengthening of treatment provision and a better transition to a drug-free life. I know that everyone who sits here has a great heart for Russorga, and I hope that together we can bring about a reform that actually changes the Norwegian drug policy and the russorga to the best for the individual. The prevention and treatment reform that has been started is not an alternative to the Solberg administration’s drug reform, but a complete reform of how we think about people who are addicted to drug addiction, how we prevent addiction, how we meet people with drug addiction, how we treat addiction, and what we justify after such treatment. These are areas that have received strong criticism from several arenas and that I know from my own experience as a health care professional. It has been flawed at all stages, our fellow human beings have been mistreated, and it has simply been our underpriority for a long time. For many, help depends on how many cages. The prevention and treatment reform is our answer to the criticism that has been from the various arenas. We're already in the process of change. An important step has been to strengthen the funding of municipalities, too many of the measures needed. The National Audit Office’s report on mental health services showed that there are considerable differences between municipalities. Another approach has been to strengthen the basic funding of hospitals, particularly interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment. The schedule is in progress. We need to strengthen the competence, provision and accessibility of municipalities. We need to strengthen the multidisciplinary treatment in the specialist services. We need to strengthen the health supply in prison throughout the country, and we need to ensure good transitions to a drug-free life. It'll get us together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3530	Rusty care is an important matter for many. It is important for addicts, for relatives and families, for young people and for society. Many know or have known people who have been addicted to drugs, and, unfortunately, drug addiction is something that affects many, not just the drug user himself. The Progress Party has always been clear that we do not support the proposal for drug reform as it was presented, neither when the reform was introduced for the first time, nor now, during the rematch that has been launched by the proposers. The signal effect of decriminalisation will be worrying, and general decriminalisation is highly controversial both among research and professional communities working in practice. When the drug reform was presented, a strong impression was created among many, namely that it was okay to use drugs. It's a dangerous signal that can lure many young people into a drug addiction that you can't get out of. In the drug reform, proposers forget the issue of prevention, how to prevent people from starting to get involved, which can once again develop into a problem. For us in the Progress Party, it is important that we strengthen the treatment provision for those who suffer from addiction and who are ill. They're going to get help, and they're going to have to get help quickly. Here it is important that treatment institutions play along with those addicts who want help. At the same time, we're going to send out a preventive signal to young people who want to experiment with drugs. It is dangerous to create the impression that drug use is not going to have any consequences. The proposal we are discussing today is not good enough when it comes to following up and working against youth. In our opinion, it is simply not good enough when it comes to the absolutely essential question, about how to follow up on those who have landed on the slope, and who insistently want help to get out of a distrustful life where the rush is the governing thing. Many addicts are today sent straight back to their former drug environment, without a proper follow-up from the auxiliaries, after they have finished their zone or have been on detoxification. Some people don't even have a housing offer waiting for them, which makes the way back the drug environment short. The Progress Party believes that we are forgetting the young people in the Russian reform. Young people experimenting with drugs need follow-up, not release. We need community follow-up, so that as few as possible end up in heavy drug addiction. The consequence of our not ensuring follow-up is that young people end up in the clumsy embrace of the Russians. We have to fight that. Then it does not help with a meeting of one hour, as it is suggested, but follow-up over a longer period. Drug use is prohibited and should continue to be so. Drug use is a social problem that brings great costs and inhuman suffering. Drug use not only threatens the health and safety of individuals but also supports organised crime, both nationally and internationally. I take this up with me the proposals of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3549	The representative Morten Wold then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3554	I would have liked a guidance from the President on what is within acceptable parliamentary language to those who grossly fail the most helpful of society. It is a serious failure when the government in a press release last week announced a reform based on the ban on the use and possession of drugs for its own use and that the government opposes the general decriminalisation of drug use. This means that the Labour Party-Center Party government really believes that the police should continue to hunt drug addicts who are visible in the urban environment. It is the country that is the largest drug addict in Norway. Last year the Vinmonopolet sold a total of 118 million litres of alcohol to the Norwegian people. The social and health consequences are enormous. It's striking how, as a big community, we're dealing very differently with drugs. Many people have a health problem relationship with drugs, regardless of whether they are illicit or legal drugs. Of course, they need professional support and help, and we need to focus on prevention. But history and research show that ban and criminalisation do not help. I found Bergen's magazine the other day summarizing it wisely in the chairroom: It is well known that the police have used problematic and illegal instruments to hunt for illicit drugs, especially to young people. Now that they are still to be punished for small drug offences, there is reason to believe that the illegal behaviour continues. Youths who should be helped are instead punished in ways that harm their chances of survival. It's the recipe for still losing people to drug abuse. I am particularly disappointed in the Workers' Party. One thing is to use Margrethe Munthe's missioner philosophy, but to use the whip on the rescue is not worthy of a socially anchored party. We must help, not punish. With that, I'll take up the suggestions from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3570	Then the representative Marian Hussein drew up the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3575	The time to hunt, punish and stigmatize people for drug use and addiction must be over. Punishment doesn't work, but it pushes people out of the community. It is seen in red as a health and social problem, not a crime problem, because the main means of preventing drug dependence are outside the prison and the police’s remit. Children and young people must meet with the help and prevention of youth work by professionals rather than punishment. The main tool is safe and long-term relationships; it's to facilitate belonging to society; it's small social differences; it's good public health, work and education. These are important factors in prevention. If the drug field is to range from prevention to after-care, we need different services, because addicts are also different, and addiction may be complex. We need multidisciplinary competence that can meet the whole human being. Punishment isn't that. Several parties claim that the abolition of penalties for user doses will lead to more young people becoming addicted to drugs. However, there is no contradiction between working with prevention and treatment and abolishing criminal liability, use and possession of minor quantities of illicit drugs for personal use. It is true that drug use may have negative health consequences, and with our proposal, drug use will continue to be banned, but there is no research evidence to claim that decriminalisation increases the use of drugs. What we know is that today's criminal policy actually doesn't work. Unfortunately, people who use illicit drugs are subjected to systematic discrimination against the law. It's been going on for too long, and now it's time for a change. We in Red also have no faith that it is wise to separate the target group into worthy and unworthy needy ones. Such a division we think is dangerous. Russ users are as different as all of us, and making such a division I think quite a lot of us will agree on conflicts against what is otherwise important to us all, namely equality for the law. A drug reform is also a class issue and necessary to pursue a knowledge-based and humane drug policy. Research shows that young people whose parents have less than four years higher education and who live in low-income areas have a seven-fold higher risk of punishment than young people where their parents have more than four years higher education. Sometimes people may find themselves in a difficult situation. Our job is to provide help, prevention and to strengthen the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3591	Punishment damage. It does so today, with young people being taken with smaller doses of drugs. The punishment they receive in a situation where they are going out to work, where they are going into education, seems negative. That's the way it's been as long as we've had this system, for 50 years. It has helped drive people into a more difficult life situation and into addiction, in the last 50 years. There have been improvements. In terms of treatment provision, stigmatisation has been reduced, and the provision of drug addicts has improved considerably over these years. But this proposal is about removing the last part, i.e. we now need a decision to decriminalise so that punishment – as a post-investigation investigation shows that damage – will no longer have that function. Those who have used or use drugs need support. Those entering into addiction need treatment. And there's nothing to suggest that the punishment itself is involved in changing or improving the situation in which they are. It is as noted: it is clear that the way this has been handled, including by the police, by having house surveys, that there has been a review of cell phones, blood or urine tests, and that young people have had to undress in order to examine the body's cavity, it does not help anyone to gain more control or to bring them into a safe future. Then the government parties come and talk about us having a prevention and treatment reform, just as if this has not been thought of in the past. In 2018 – and I put myself in those negotiations – it was an important point for the Left that the drug reform should come alone, precisely because we had to do the other things first. So over the course of these years, we have followed the escalating plan for the drug field, from 2016 to 2020. The golden rule where the growth in drug treatment and mental health is greater than that of health businesses has been followed. New drugs and drugs have entered the LAR. There are several substances that can enter the injection rooms, the injection rooms have become user rooms, and one has the opportunity to smoke there. We have also started trials with heroin-assisted treatment. All of this has been done precisely because we were concerned that the Storting should not carry out a drug reform [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3606	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3611	Thanks first to our allies in this matter – Right, Left SV and Red – for the cooperation. The main reason why most people in Norway have it well-materially and get the necessary health care they require is that we have several times throughout history made a settlement with old-fashioned, anti-knowledge and discriminatory prejudices against individual groups in society. That's a missing settlement in the drug policy. Therefore, reform of Norwegian drug policy is the most important social reform in our time. Today, addiction is being criminalised and stigmatized; it is stigmatisation and criminalisation of the most vulnerable people in our society. They are deprived of the necessary health care, and we do so despite the fact that many of those who are drug addicts who are looking for the street environment have just failed by the welfare state as children. And then they're going to fail again, again and again after that. Every year hundreds of people die of overdoses. You do not have to be a so-called heavy user or heavily dependent to die from overdose. It seems to have been tricked or to have calculated a bit of a mistake when you put a shot. In 2020, on average, almost one person died a day of overdose — people who could have been rescued, but many of them dare not contact help because they are at risk of punishment. Norwegian Russian policy is the rat's pill. Today, the majority close their eyes to this by saying no to the drug reform once again. The government's plan is to work on a system that doesn't work. To distinguish between heavy and minor drug users is a compromise within the Workers' Party that makes no sense to any of us – nor to professionals. It creates uncertainty in people who are going to have help with the police and the courts. And worst of all, it leads to easier drug users — no matter how we define it — becoming even sicker, even more stigmatized and more excluded from society before they get help. That's the opposite of prevention. Furthermore, in February, the Advocate General concluded that police practice has been marked by systematic errors and deficiencies, such as: have carried out illegal house searches and humiliating physical examinations on suspicion of drug use. The people that the police were supposed to have protected against cynical backers became victims of police acts instead. The victims are many – not only drug users themselves – but also their closest ones, like their children. The consequences are traumas to the political downside. Dreams, distrust of the authorities and, in some cases, loss of work and family. It is not possible that thousands of people have been potentially exposed to illegal acts by the police without any consequences. The government will soon have to respond to what they intend to do to rebuild the confidence of the police of a large group in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3622	The Christian People's Party voted against in this matter the last time it was up, last year, and is going to vote against even now. On Saturday, I was at a 10-year anniversary of an institution — or a form of treatment — for after-shave protection by someone who has been a drug addict himself. She has achieved such good results that municipalities around them have changed their practices in the way they operate mental health, drugs — and for those coming out of prison — treatment. She has the researchers with her in terms of results, and the health business sees it as useful. There is a broad consensus that those who are most struggling with drug abuse or drug problems will be met with help. However, in order to meet individuals with help, we need to strengthen treatment provision and aftercare. Our stories show that we can't meet those who ask for help, in a way that makes them feel that they are getting help the way they want. In addition, there is no doubt that during this debate on decriminalisation there have been many parents and many relatives who have been sitting around schools in the whole country and are concerned that younger and younger people are entering a drug challenge. At the same time as they think it has become legal – although it is not – we believe and know that many of the funds today are stronger than they were before; therefore, unfortunately, we also see the challenge that some people lose their lives because they get too strong a dose. Therefore, health care and after-care needs to be multiplicity and, not least, more innovative, so that it can be achieved in a new era. The auxiliaries must also be available when people need it. For some of those who have lived with rushes quite close to life, it is not useful to get an offer in three months. Then they're so far out; they need it now, and they need to be allowed to choose some of the offers they want. We're all different, and we need all kinds of offers – including those who are struggling with the booze. That is why the Christian People's Party is concerned with a variety of actors in drug care, where the individual receives a suitable offer. I am therefore addressing the proposals that the Christian People's Party has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3635	Then the representative, Olug Vervik Bollestad, has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3640	All the topics we work on in the Health and Care Committee affect people's everyday lives. The Russian reform is about people and their right to a decent life. It's about consequences both for users and for their families. There are many questions, including:: Who is it that the Russian reform should serve? In order to get the best possible understanding of the design of the drug reform, our Patient Focus team has, in recent months, prioritised carrying out many conversations with drug addicts in Finnmark, in Troms, North Norway. We've been talking to these people in Oslo, we've been talking to their families, we've been talking to therapists, we've been talking to other professionals, and we've been visiting rus collectives. We understand that today’s problem with the treatment of drug addicts needs new solutions, including: multicultural understanding of users must be part of the solution to drug reform. As the drug reform now exists, a few major distortions in the treatment of addicts living in the major cities versus those living in the districts of Norway may occur. The proposal states that the police ‘may instruct a person to meet with the Advisory Unit for Drugs Affairs in the municipality’. But who will the dependent meeting when the advisors do not actually exist in the municipality? If we look at Norway's northernmost counties, to the northern region of Finnmark, we who come from there are multicultural. We're the North, the Same, the Women, we're the descendants of Finns, we're Finns, plus a lot of other people, other nationalities. We live in Norway's largest country, and the fact that we are few in number, is often used against us in terms of health services. In Finnmark, the drug treatment is about the multicultural Finnmark, where, among other things: Sámi and female Ruspacers face other challenges to a treatment offer that often lack cultural and language understanding. It can quickly lead to relapses and more intoxication. It has to be taken into account. Patient focus has also discussed the issue of user doses with different drug addicts. The answer from most people has been that the user doses help those who do not have any surplus to stop their drug use, and we will take this seriously. However, more people show concern that young people who have recently been introduced to drugs quickly become those who are carrying dope for payment between sellers and users. It's a concern they're showing, and they're telling us about. The black economic rush market can get a new transport channel. A new drug reform will force itself forward, and a preventive auxiliaries must be emphasised. We also have to have an after-care unit that works over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3657	During the examination of the previous government’s drug reform, a total increase saw the need for changes in drug policy, but the majority opposed the decriminalisation of drugs. That's still the case in this room. The government will ensure that people with extensive and serious drug problems and addiction are not penalised for the use of drugs, but we believe that this can happen without a general decriminalisation. This does not mean that we want the status quo or a more stringent drug policy, on the contrary. The government is clear that the responses of society should be proportionate, including in terms of criminal law. The government will strengthen and develop the provision of treatment and follow-up, but prevention of drug problems is at least equally important and that we come early with good help and treatment, especially to the youngest. With this background, in 2023, we will present a key message on a prevention and treatment reform for the drug field. There we will follow up the Hurdal Platform, the Storing Decision and the proposals we made in the opposition. Follow-up to request decisions in the justice sector is underway, and we have facilitated increased treatment in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment by increasing the basic funding of hospitals. Stigmatisation of drug users has been central to the debate on drug reform. As the drug reform committee itself pointed out, there are several reasons for this, and we can work to reduce stigma even without decriminalisation. Negative attitudes to those with drug problems are a barrier to providing good services, to social inclusion and to reducing social differences in health. Therefore, we establish that people with drug problems have the right to a decent life, regardless of the drugs they use. This is an important theme to include in the formulation of future drug policies. Nor does the reform of the Solberg government have a majority in this big business. This government’s drug policy involves a more modest and proportionate approach to punishment, increased prevention and health promotion efforts and improved quality and coherence of treatment and follow-up services. This means a comprehensive and coherent prevention and treatment reform for the drug field that improves the quality of treatment and follow-up of people with drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3677	Youth on the Oslo East is taken to use cannabis three times as often as young people from the Oslo West, even though young people on the Oslo West smoke twice as much hashish. If parents are low or uneducated, the chance to be punished for drug offences is seven times higher than if their parents have a high level of education. In other words, today's drug policy is very outrageous socially, and you can really say that it is the children of the working class who are primarily affected by today's drug policy. What does the Council of State think about the numbers, and what does the Council of State think of today's policy as contributing to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3684	This government has set it as a general goal for all policies that we should balance social health differences. There is no place it is more important than in Oslo City, where the differences in living conditions are significant and also the differences in life expectancy are quite significant between east and west. It is probably just as serious for the individual to have a drug problem no matter which part of the city you live in. There is also a background for a broad view of the field of drug use and for a reform of prevention and treatment. Last week, I had the pleasure of visiting the Oslo East branch, which is doing a formidable job, and some of what we're looking for is good, inquiring methodology that can spread to all municipalities in such a way that we get into early intervention with young people who are at risk of developing a drug problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3691	I really don't realize that the Council of State answers my question about how today's policy contributes to that. It's nice to be able to have a good and up-to-date policy, but if you don't want to be visited because you're afraid to be punished for what you're doing, you can imagine if you get in that position. I also have another question, because the Hurdal platform decides that addicts should be released from punishment. At the same time, the Council of State has, among other things, now stated that there are people with extensive and serious drug problems and addiction who are to be met with help and treatment instead of criminal responses. Can the Council clarify who is to be exempted from punishment and how this is to be decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3699	I would like to respond to how the government wants to combat social health differences. There would be a longer talk in the differences between, among other things. The right and left side of Norwegian policy and the priorities we have seen over eight years, which unfortunately have led to an increase in the differences between people, between poor and rich, between towns and cities. But I expect that is the question of the punishment representative Bruflot wants to debate. For this government, it is important that all those in need of health care are met with health care, regardless of the type of drug use they are struggling with. Then it's like we want to explore the possibilities of punishment for those who have an addiction disease. That is what we believe to be an important social reform. It is also important to look at how the criminal system meets people with drug addiction. Also the Right suggests some thresholds, so completely against punishment is not the Right either.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3706	I still don't see that I get any answers. Does the Council of State have any idea of how to distinguish between who is addicted enough and worthy enough to receive the help proposed by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, and who is not? I can't understand anything but that you either move the courts into the doctor's office or move the doctors' offices into the street where the police are. How can we distinguish between who is addicted enough to get help, and who is not, especially given that the lawyer himself has said that it will be difficult to do so, and when we've grounded that there will be equality of law in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3711	The question asked by the representative Bruflot is who should receive health care and not, and that is the case in Norway, because this room has granted rights to every resident in Norway, that if you need health care, you should receive it. This applies to everyone, regardless of their health problem, whether they are using drugs or whether it is because they have cancer. Health care shall be available to all. Of course, it has to be investigated in the question of penalties for some, so I do not have an answer to that today. I would also like to say that I am not familiar with the description Bruflot has of the way both the helper and the courts meet addicts. As late as March, the first judgment in Norway was passed against a drug addict, who was sentenced to training on bicycles. And because he was subject to Antidoping Norway, he also quit all drug use. I think that's great and modern.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3718	The council has several times said that she wants to turn this over to more help. One of the proposals we are making today ensures that people who see there is a need to call the emergency phone to help, or to prevent anyone from taking overdoses that need health care, can do so without risking being arrested for their own use or possession. Does the Council agree that this is a fraud?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3723	Norwegian law protects everyone who asks for emergency health care. In addition, the previous accumulation adopted several request decisions to ensure it, often referred to as ‘good Samaritan law’. That's what this government is going to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3728	On a previous question of inequality – who is being punished – the Council of State said it is equally serious no matter which part of the city you live in. But we know that young people who have parents with less than four years of higher education, living in low-income areas, like my neighborhood, have a seven-fold higher risk of punishment than those with parents who have more than four years of higher education. Then I wonder, is it such that punishment works better for young people on the east side and worse for young people on the west side? Is that why it's like that? Or is it really such that punishment does not help, and that it is actually health care that is the way to go? There is ethnic profiling that penalises and hunts some young people, whether it helps them or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3733	The opinion to which the representative refers is incorrect. I didn't say anything about punishment. I said that a drug addiction is equally serious whether it comes from an eastern or western part of the city, and you're going to get health care anyway. My statement was not linked to punishment. It was linked to health care, to which all people are entitled in Norway because they have received that patient’s right from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3738	I think I hear a lot of words from the Council of State about what you want to achieve with prevention. However, it is a fact that criminal investigations show that it hurts and helps to bring young people into a more difficult situation when they are entering or going into employment. As others have pointed out, this seems very different. In Oslo, there is no doubt that there are more people facing punishment east of the city than what you do west of the city. The council says she's because heavy addicts are going to have a penance. Then I wonder: How does the Council of State feel that punishment should help drug users who are being taken with a user dose?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3743	I don't think punishment should help. Punishment is the reaction of society to criminal behavior. I believe that drug addicts should receive health care for their drug problems. I hear the Left argue very fundamentally against the punishment of addicts, but I note that the Left too believes this should happen within certain thresholds. The drug reform the Left participated in, was for user doses up to the given threshold values, so above the threshold values it is right to perceive that the Left believes punishment is good. I think that's a little bit of a principle, and that it's hard to understand what it's left to achieve. What this government wants to achieve is better prevention, better treatment and drug addicts meeting with health care rather than punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3748	It is likely that many who are dependent will be unsure whether or not they have an addiction. I think it's very problematic if we have a law where it's not clear whether you're committing a crime with the behavior you have. We now know that decriminalisation, which is at the heart of a real drug reform, is supported by all the large user organisations and is recommended by the World Health Organisation and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. What I'm wondering is how a 17-year-old who might have taken an overdose, and her friend who's standing out wondering if you should call the help phone, will know if the 17-year-old is going to be met with punishment, if they're going to be stigmatized and will have problems with relationships with parents and family because she's committed a crime, in a situation where they can save a life – when even we in the Great Britain can understand what the content of this new reform is?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3753	I think the representative here is caricing an important subject area. For this government it is important to prevent better — get involved with young people before they end up in a demanding situation as that representative describes. It is tempting to ask the representative back in the case of young people in a situation such as that described here — an overdose — and perhaps not quite sure how much drug they received. It is true that the Greens are also in favour of a reform that provides penalties for certain user doses. Nor is it the case that the reform of the previous government made a clear distinction between punishment and not punishment. It will be a difficult situation for all young people who come into a situation where you have a friend who has taken an overdose. What we need is more out-of-office teams. What we need is a police officer who works well for the police. What we need is treatment and understanding for those who have had problems with their drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3765	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3772	The word ‘reform’ comes from the Latin term ‘reformer’, which means to reshape. That's exactly what the government and government will do here in the hall. Such a reshaping cannot be done piece by piece, it must be connected from start to finish, and it must start on that side. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal for a representative to implement the drug reform, because it does not address the whole thing that needs to be done. Too many people develop drug addiction. Many of them should and must get help earlier. In general, we need to ensure that we continue to keep drug use in society at a low level. It also means that we need to look at the full range of drugs — from alcohol to drugs. It is too one-sided to focus on some types of drugs — it is a blind road. We have to remember that there is the greatest social cost in the area of alcohol abuse, without it being a goal in itself to set this against each other. What do we usually do when we're going to widen out to as low a level as possible? Yes, we're looking at the municipalities. It's in the municipalities people live, it's in the municipalities people live their lives, and it's in the municipalities they develop a problematic relationship with drugs. That is why we must strengthen the municipalities in the prevention work. The Labour Party and the Centre Party will assist the municipalities with a national drug prevention programme, as well as continuing to strengthen the municipal economy. Then we have to make it possible for the municipalities to learn from each other. There are so many competent employees working in the municipality of Norway. This knowledge must benefit both the State and the other municipalities. And then the state has to stand up. Therefore, the government should look at how the state can contribute to an even greater use of outreach methodology by municipalities in order to get in early contact with particularly vulnerable young people. It has an added effect that it will also help to reduce social inequality and to strengthen the inclusion of groups and young people at risk of falling outside society. Here, as mentioned earlier, good examples to build on, for example: The dissection here in Oslo. Allowing young people to fall outside society, often on a permanent basis, is one of the most expensive things we as a society do — both for them, for their families and for us as a big community. Therefore, we need to improve our prevention and detection of drug problems. This applies to all, but especially to young people. We owe it to those affected, and it ensures a better social economy. Therefore, all good forces must be put into action, such as school, volunteering, sports, health care, etc. And then it has to be made safe to ask for help. That is why I am pleased that the government has announced that this reform will go across departments. In these days, people are opening houses and homes to help refugees at war. It's touching and it warms our heart to experience it, because it shows the best thing about Norway – we're rusty and open to those who need help. We also have to show that glimmer to those who are on their way into a drug problem and those who are already in the middle of it. That is why a comprehensive reform is necessary, because everyone has to be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3789	‘You had right, I had wrong’ said Bent Höie to Arild Knutsen at the meeting of the UN Commission on Drugs in Vienna two years ago. There was a strong moment between one who for several years would not change Norwegian drug policy, and one who has dedicated his whole life to the fight to change Norwegian drug policy. And Arild Knutsen, as I see sitting at the audience gallery today, managed to do so when Bent Höie last year presented the Russian reform, which suggested a historic revolution in Norwegian drug policy, by going from punishment to help those who are addicted to drugs. ‘You had right, I had wrong’ was not only a personal recognition by a health and care minister, it was also a recognition of the misguided drug policy that Norway has been pursuing for many years. We've punished, fined and put people who are sick and addicted in prison. It's a policy that hasn't worked. It has made everyday life worse, it has been stigmatizing, and it has taken Norway to the top of overdose statistics in Europe. By 2020, 324 people died of an overdose. It is the highest number in Norway in 20 years. I have met and talked to many addicts over the years by engaging in the Gatemgassine Really in Tromsø. Many not only struggle with addiction, they also live a life on the outside of society, with poverty, unworthy living conditions and mental and physical problems. Punishment is an extra burden on the top of all that. It's not a way out of addiction. Russ reform is based on the proposals of the Committee on Drug Reform, which are based on international research and knowledge. They concluded that punishment does not lead to a better life for addicts, but to increased stigma. Penalties are not suitable as an instrument to end anyone from the drug. That research and knowledge we have to deal with. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party will again vote against the Russian reform. They will continue a policy that we know does not work, and they will not listen to research and knowledge. It's incredibly disappointing. But I know that the fight for the drug reform does not end with it, because it is currently over-molded for a drug reform in Norway that goes from punishment to help. I also know that at some point in the future, the parties that vote down the Russian reform will also come to the recognition of 'you had right, I hated wrong'. It's just so sad that in the meantime, vulnerable people have to pay the price for the time it takes to get to that recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3802	The Government of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party shall present a drug reform. It is not a decriminalisation reform, as the Right and the rest of the opposition propose here today, but a prevention and treatment reform that actually addresses the problems we have in the drug field today. It's an important thing, but it's also a proper distinction. Because we all agree that drug addicts need to face health care rather than punishment to a greater extent. The problem with the reform of the right and the opposition, which proposes a general decriminalisation of drugs, is that there is a risk of leading more people into drug addiction without saying anything about prevention or better treatment. That's why we're afraid the only result is to lead more people into addiction, without following them any better. Not everyone who tries drugs will become addicted, but by making the first or second meeting of drugs less illegal, we take away the greatest reason we young people have today not to try us out. This will lead to more people being exposed to the substances initially, and this will also increase the likelihood of more people becoming addicted. It makes FHI very clear in its consultation performance in 2020. For how should one actually explain that drugs are illegal but not punishable? I don't think that's a good idea. At the same time, this proposal says too little about how to actually improve the provision of drug addicts in practice. In Trøndelag, we have had a great deal of success with the offer of drug contracts, where young people who are being taken with drugs are offered the opportunity to release punishment and get it on the flyer if they agree over time to become drug free. It gets them with close follow-up of other floors on the road. But this will not be possible with such drug reform, because the police are deprived of the opportunities they have to actually follow up on children and young people. Instead, the opposition suggests that the treatment offer be changed to the obligation to engage in one conversation with municipal advisory services. If you do not wish to help the municipality, it only involves a conversation about the adverse effects of drugs. It's a significant downgrading of today's offers, and it wouldn't help any more out of drug addiction. Norway is among the countries of Europe with the lowest drug use among children and young people. At the same time, we are one of the countries with most overdose deaths. And in terms of these deaths, we know that most people have been in contact with the health care system. There is no prevention or threshold for asking for help. The problem is how we meet people and people with drug problems, and what offers and follow-up are given. That's exactly what we're going to do. As a young center party with a burning commitment to this, I'm so happy for that, for the focus is where it must be, on prevention, treatment and post-protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3813	Sitting in this room and listening to representatives from the government parties talk about local economy and the organisation of assistance services intersects in the heart. For the drug reform is not about the organisation of public action, it is about people and putting people at the centre. For me, the drug reform is personal, because it's not just about people, but it's also about people I've known during my childhood. It was about young people in Oslo East who met more closely the sanctions from society, who met the sanctions from the police, from the family, who got drug contracts that they never had the chance to follow up, because they never got the help they really needed. It was about young people who had a need to rush to escape from reality, a reality of mental ill health, a reality with families where violence was an instrument of awakening. This was about young people who had the most difficult childhood and who had the most difficult meeting with adult life. There are young people who were put in prison, because society had decided to punish them and not get help. It feels like we in this room haven't taken over the consequences of that punishment. But as Dania, the youth from the Change Factory, said in the hearing: being punished leads to a colder heart. As a result, youths are shutting themselves in and not getting the help they need. Many who are struggling with drug problems, whether alcohol or today’s illicit drugs, have other challenges at the back. Many in that group have been abused or have mental illness. SV believes that we have to do something. We can't keep punishing this group. Today we are promoting a number of proposals for dealing with this matter. This is to ensure that young people do not experience, as they have experienced in the past, that when they call the police, they are fined or punished for drug retention rather than their friends, who may have taken overdose, get help. The personal is political, and we also need to deal with this matter in a human way – not talking about local economy and not talking about how to organise the auxiliaries, but talking about the people and the lives they've lived. We have to stop punishing people, and rather help.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3828	Last summer, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party said no to the Russian reform in Stortinget. Today they get a new chance. The proposal that is on the table today is a rare opportunity to end many years of failed criminal regime by going from punishment to aid in drug policy, and for something to be reformed, it must actually involve a change. It does not do the proposal of the government. Norway’s overdose statistics are gloomy. We've been in the top of Europe for a long time, and the arrows are pointing in the wrong direction. Every death is an enormous tragedy, and it is the result of a drug policy that hurts more than it helps. Many drugrelated deaths could have been prevented if interventions and healthcare were available to those who needed it. Punishment can lead to fewer people seeking the help they need. It can also make it more difficult for relatives to identify their problems, and then it contributes to stigmatisation, marginalisation and the exclusion of a group that is already in a vulnerable situation. For too long, we've set up moralism and stigmatisation when what people need is help. The left has been committed to a knowledge-based drug reform that reverses society’s response from punishment for help. All the knowledge shows that there is help and not punishment that is the most important part of the solution to help Russy. The recommendations of the UN agencies are clear. Research, professionals, international experience is clear. The majority of the Norwegian population is in favour of drug reform. Now we need to listen to knowledge and professionals, and we need to implement the drug reform. Without a drug reform, it is difficult to provide early help and prevent major problems. Everyone with drug problems has started somewhere. Often, the drug has been used to alleviate other mental challenges, poor growth or trauma. It's a bad idea to punish people until life is so much in ruins and drug addiction takes over, then to stretch out a hand and say that now you don't have to be punished anymore. This is one of the most important social policy reforms in recent times. We can no longer stand and watch people be humbled and humiliated and called criminals when they are sick. The Russian reform will give these people freedom and dignity back. With this proposal, we will finally set a point for many decades of misguided drug policy. The left is the guarantor of drug reform, and we are going to take the fight – until we meet the people of our society without punishment and with humanity, care and help.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3843	An important milestone has been reached: the Labour Party-Center Party-Government has launched the important work of reform, namely a holistic prevention and treatment reform in the field of drugs. This is the most important reform of government – a reform where human dignity is at the centre, and where prevention and treatment are at the centre, not just decriminalisation. People with extensive drug problems and addiction have the right to be met with a dignified life. Reform work follows up all points of the Hurdal platform of the Workers Party-Center Party government. It also requires the introduction of changes in criminal law and other legislation. For the government there are several goals that one will achieve. In short, we're going to make it harder to get into addiction and get out of it. We will strengthen prevention and provide better treatment and follow-up to people with drug problems and people who have become drug free. Treatment is important work, and the government will develop the provision of treatment. We're already doing a great job. Billions more to municipalities and hospitals and a clear instruction to strengthen multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment show a clear direction. We shall improve the quality of treatment of drug dependence and increase service capacity. It's about helping get even better, and having the ability to help even more. The government will ensure that medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR, will provide a holistic and knowledge-based provision for drug addicts by further developing today’s LAR, where the government will distribute trial projects for those who have been addicted to heroin and morphine. This has been shown to reduce mortality and improve the quality of life. The government will also look at drug treatment from a harm-reducing perspective. This applies to all those currently not covered by LAR treatment. Interactions between specialist services and municipalities must be strengthened, both in the course of treatment and after treatment has ended. We will ensure that people with long-term drug problems are given the right to the coordinator and provide good and co-ordinated services. It is also a high priority for this government to strengthen the apparatus for finishing. After treatment, on the way to recovery, no one should go alone. The life after completion of treatment should allow for something more than freedom from intoxication — a safe home, an education or a job to go to. Early addicts must be allowed to be more than their past. We're going to offer a future where former addicts can participate in society in a dignified way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3860	The central party has been a clear voice in the debate on the treatment of the Solberg government’s drug reform, through previous representative proposals and in the debate, in order to provide drug addicts with treatment rather than punishment and support for a drug reform where drug addicts are to face health-related measures, but not on the condition that the way to do so is to decriminalise drugs for the whole population. When the Solberg government presented its drug reform, there was not a consensus on all the issues related to the impact of the reform, whether it was the general preventive effect — we want the lowest possible actual drug dependence — or the issue of a general increase in the use of drugs in the population, which was not an objective of the reform either. What we know, and which is not particularly affected when the drug reform was presented, or when it is lifted again, is that drug addicts have a major need for health and social services, for treatment and close follow-up, for after-protection and a good framework for the transition to a drug-free life. I think we're going to be humble enough – or in each case I'm going to be – to admit that you're not sitting on the whole fasit. Are we going to spend the most time measuring who has the greatest commitment to drug addicts based on which side of the issue of general decriminalisation of drugs you land on, or on who has understood the most or least, when the commitment to the issue actually turns out to be both big and cross-political, but with different insights into how we best move forward on these issues? The Government will implement the necessary changes to ensure that people in need or in need of assistance are not penalised by use and possession and have already supported a regime in which use and possession cases are concealed on the flyer, provided that this is not recorded as criminal offences during the period in question. The government’s prevention and treatment reform will also assess how drug addicts can be exempted from penal responses to the use and possession of minor quantities of drugs for their own use. It should also be mentioned that as near as no one today is going to be able to impose unconditional prison sentences for the use and less possession of drugs as the sole basis of judgment. Less than 0.15 pst. Among prison settings, offences related to the use and possession of drugs are alone. In this context, it might be tempting to talk a little about how the cut of the Solberg government in criminal custody over several years has led to a large amount of drug abuse in Norwegian prison, but I will not spend time on that. We welcome the debate on these issues when the government's work is addressed in the Storting, where issues related to the change in criminal law related to use and possession will be one of many factors for a better drug policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3877	Getting a drug reform is about fixing a history of errors, a pattern that has had serious consequences for drug users, for people who have not been treated like the people they are. There is an error trail that applies in many areas. For a long time, the police have treated drug users in a harassing way — for such a long time that culture has settled from the bottom to the top level. So normalized and overly coercive use has been that during the collapse hearing of the Solberg government's drug reform last year, State Attorney Geir Evangeler – otherwise vice-chairman of the Norwegian Narcotics Association, an organisation I could make my own statement on – the following: ‘I think it’s been searched this way in Norway all year long, and I haven’t been away at all that it shouldn’t be allowed.’ But it quickly became clear when the national lawyer took the floor, that this did not vote. The lawyer had to send a circular to clear up a misunderstanding — it was a practice that broke the law. The National Attorney's report on police practice in suspecting drug use shows that every week about 40 physical examinations were carried out only because of suspicion of drug use. This number is based on three selected weeks. If they're representative, we're talking about over 2,000 violations of citizens' rights this year. There was a basis for the national lawyer to say that there have been systematic errors and deficiencies in police handling, and that is a scandal. This has been so normalized that TV series like the Night Patrol have shown the police's unnecessary and unnecessary use of force as entertainment. People suspected of possession of drugs, while they have opposed it, have been illegally screened naked, checked the body's cavity, while the police say this is just routine. That is why it was in place that the Ministry of Justice deplored all those who have been subjected to serious errors. But that's not enough. Norway’s human rights institution has requested a review of the complaint mechanisms and repair facilities available to persons who have been subjected to illegal investigations. The criminal procedure law provides for the establishment and the standardisation and simplification of proceedings, in order to ensure that those who have been subjected to this illegal coercion are brought up to date. We can do that today. SV has proposed the development of a compensation scheme. Now we have the opportunity to correct an injustice that has affected citizens in Norway. Now we can show that as a society we are mature enough to admit mistakes, correct them and treat drug users like the people they are. In this debate, the views of the Workers' Party and the Centre appear to be as out of date as doctors who used to sit and smoke on TV in the old days. The only positive thing is that there's going to be a time when they'll realize it themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3895	I think we should be careful with too much political color spread when it comes to the fight. The debate and the debate on drugs is a demanding theme, and many people experience it as hurt and engaging. It also applies to me, not least because this is about those at the bottom of the table. I think there are several of us who can say that we've been in too many tombs, and that we've met too many people who are as good, capable and upcoming as ourselves, but who have been outside, in the rush, because they had it tough and difficult, or because they made a bad choice at some point. All the human beings seem to be met with respect. I also feel that this debate is inviting, across the colours of the parties. It makes me happy. But when we are now discussing, changing and reforming the drug policy – and we are going to do that, let there be no doubt about it – it is important that it is at least as much about prevention and helping afterwards as the paragraphs in the snapshot. It can't go from punishment to nothing, it must be from punishment to health care. That road is not fast or easy, but we have to go that way together. One thing that I feel is very important is that all those who make contact with health professionals and ask for help should not be confronted with criminal reactions. My partner in the big shot, my no. 2, which is good for me, experienced herself that the sister took an overdose, and that help did not come because they were too afraid to call for help. We can't have it like that. That's exactly why there's a very clear hope that we can sort things out. Along with the prevention, it is also important that all young people, and those even a little older, who stumble into the rush, do not get stuck with it on the scroll for the rest of their lives. The doors should be able to open again, and one should be able to get one way back. And so it's important that if a man goes outside and stumbles away in the rushes in the districts, he doesn't automatically end up losing his note and being further isolated. It's important. Getting a preventive drug policy, which makes it harder to get into it, but also easier to get out, is what is the Russian reform of the Labour Party and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3909	I would like to admit that it has not been easy to work with this matter. That's why we in the Patient Focus have focused on finding the good answers. When we in the Patient Focus vote against the proposal for this drug reform, we base ourselves on the conversations we have had with different addicts and the auxiliaries. Nevertheless, there must be no doubt that in the patient’s focus, we want to become less addicted to alcohol and that more people are going to quit. And we want them to get help to keep on living restless lives. Once we've done that, we're about to have a successful drug reform. Every decision we make in this matter has a consequence for the individual person. We're going to help people live, not get bad lives and maybe die. Recordings from addicts in the north are more, and it's important that we take seriously the call they give us. So what have they told us? Well, let me mention something: they want a prevention that prevents young people from getting involved in drugs; they want care during the time they are in active intoxication; they want free dental treatment — completely without crushing. They want a low threshold of treatment, and follow-up stay in an institution should last as long as they need it. Many addicts are in debt. Therefore, it is important to provide nurses, socionomists and other caregivers with an offer of paid after-care training in the personal economy. In this way, they can help addicts get out of an economic environment. They also want – and we really do see the need – to cover visits to their homes and visits for their loved ones to the detoxification institutions. It helps to give them security in everyday life. Finally, I'm going to mention one thing that's very important: several of those we've talked to refer to a brutality many in the police show when they execute racism at home to addicts. Here, practice needs to be changed. That means the police have to figure out how they intend to do just that. They need to change their practices before a new drug reform is introduced. The goal of the conversations we've had this winter has been to see the whole thing. We in the Patient Focus look forward to continuing to work on the drug problem, and we challenge the Minister of Health to take this feedback from the North with him in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3922	Yesterday I was visiting the Church's City Mission in Bergen and got to talk to some of the people who go out and meet addicts in the streets of the city every day. The reality they described to me should belong to the past. But the prospect of change is bad if the majority again cancels the drug reform this week. Penalties have not had a negative impact on young people or on drug addicts. Punishment as an instrument does not work. On the contrary, while as a society we continue to punish possession of user doses, the reality of the streets in Bergen and elsewhere, according to the Bymission, is that there are time and time again people who simply don't dare call the ambulance when a person in the environment or someone themselves should have called, because then the police come. And when the police arrive, as many have been involved in the debate earlier today, they are at risk of losing their own user dose – what is their medicine. So they wait as long as they can, and according to the Bymission, it goes wrong sometimes. Everyone can agree that the treatment offer can be improved. Everyone can agree that even more prevention is good, and everyone can agree that attitudes need to be changed, not least by the police. But in the meantime, while we are waiting for these changes in attitudes and for an expanded treatment service that hits everyone, there are actually people today who refuse to call for an ambulance when they or a friend needs emergency help. It's high time to get away from a system that doesn't work, that's prejudiced, that puts people in a booth. The working party in Bergen has understood that. They have also done that in Oslo, but yet the government is proposing to continue a policy where society punishes what are sick people for using what is their medicine. And who's going to define who's a heavy enough addict, and who's not? At least I do not think that the Council of State helped to clarify it today. Keeping up a policy based on punishment, rather than helping sick people to master their everyday lives, belongs to the past. The war on drugs has failed, and the drug reform is going to save lives on the day it is really done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3935	I hear that the government parties are taking up the reform that is notified of them, and will have a broader approach. It is, with respect to reporting, not a reform to be concerned with prevention, although it is fine. 2.4 B.C.E. kr was in the pot during the previous escalating plan against intoxication. There were 2,600 new people employed in the municipalities to work only on it. The waiting times that we inherited from the red-greens, were shorted most down for those who broke with intoxication, and were almost halved. There is no contradiction between investing in prevention and treatment and stopping punishing people. Decriminalisation is also prevention, because punishment and threats of punishment mean that young people and others are pushed further away from auxiliaries. What you're saying to young people and others who are not addicted enough to get the help of the Workers' Party and the Center Party is, you have to get sicker, you have to become more addicted, and your lives have to be even more ruined before you get any help from us. It is not a reform. It's to fail those who are on their way into a drug problem. The Labour Party says in this debate that they must vote against the Russian reform because it does not have all the fine things they want in a drug reform. That's not true. It's been less than two years since you were in favour. You took the initiative to shift responsibility from justice to health. If you want to prevent it too, prevent it! But if something is to be preventive, it has to work, and the vulnerable young people you talk about when you don't want decriminalisation are not scared away by punishment. The crowd who have experienced traumas, have mental disorders, are outside, self-medication or use alcohol to escape from reality is not hindered by the punishment and threat of punishment in terms of rushing. But by taking away the opportunities that others have, they become more outside, more different, more stigmatized, and the threshold for asking for help gets higher and higher. It is not a policy of solidarity. It is a policy against better knowledge, and two years ago the Workers' Party also believed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3946	SV does not ask everyone in this room to change their moralistic view of drug use. What we are asking for is no more than that the police must comply with Norwegian law. When serious errors in the police's practice of the law are revealed, we have to regret that we have to put in place a system of retaliation, and we have to ensure that the law prevents such practices from developing. Today, we have a law that does not prevent evidence being obtained illegally in less serious criminal cases from being brought before the Court. Through such a strong premise of free evidence, it has been accepted that the police are providing evidence in minor drug cases even if the evidence was not legally obtained. It may be offensive for perpetrators who are obviously guilty to go free as a result of police errors, but on the other hand it is also blatant that the police in small cases systematically violate the rules without any consequences. It will not have a particularly negative impact on society to introduce evidence interception rules in less serious cases, but it will mean that the police's own crimes will lead to the disappearance of cases. There will be a clear message to the police that illegal practices cannot be accepted. Thousands of illegal drug investigations have been carried out this year. Do we take that seriously into this hall? Not one representative from the government or the Workers' Party and the Centre have lamented the serious scandal that thousands of drug users have been exposed to year after year. It's not said to go away from a penalty line. I think it would have been more honest if the government had actually stood up for what they think; that punishment is an important tool to prevent drug use. Fortunately, we have research into research that shows that it is a wrong track, but at least it would have been a little more honest if you stood up and defended the policy you are actually pursuing. Today, SV promotes a number of proposals aimed at correcting a system that has affected drug users unfairly for too long. It is with a serious backbone that we are promoting these proposals. We expect the Minister of Justice to take a lead in cleaning up. It is a political responsibility, and we expect the government to take it inward when they have acknowledged and complained to all those who have been subjected to illegal police coercion – not just a hollow complaint, but an actual uproar and proposal to the Stortinget that prevents the likes from happening in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3959	I'm actually going to continue where the line exchange ended, because it's quite right as the Council of State said. What she said was that addiction can be felt equally seriously no matter what part of the city you live in. But yet, we are punished differently based on just where we live, and how we look. If that's how punishment actually works, is the question really whether it works better on us brown from the east? Or is it really that punishment doesn't work? That was the question, and it can be decided by the Council of State whether she wants to answer or not. We hear more good and touching contributions from the government parties, talking about the local economy, about prevention and post-protection, and I think, do it! It is absolutely amazing if the government will strengthen the post-protection, prevention and municipal economy and enable the municipalities to help more people. We would have supported that wholeheartedly. But the point here is that there is no contradiction between this and actually going into the proposal that we are promoting today on a drug reform – on the contrary, we believe. The section was mentioned several times here, nor is it an argument against the drug reform. This is an argument to bet on outreach work – and you have to do it anyway. For that is the point: the arguments of the government parties are not against decriminalisation, which we have proposed today. They're to do other things; many of them are good, some of them I don't think are so good – as distinguishing between worthy and unworthy addicts based on how heavy you are. We have still not received an answer on how to do this, but it is now another matter. The point here is that the government would like to do those things, but they're not opposed to what we're proposing. The main prevention work is far from being the responsibility of the police. I'm going to be honest and say that if someone had asked me ten years ago, I would have been very disagreeable about what I'm saying from the pulpit today. I wanted to be because I've seen and know people -- like very many others -- and I've thought no one should get there. I have believed that the solution is punishment, but I have realized that it is not quite right. I was wrong -- like a lot of people. But it's not too late to learn to listen to user organisations, to the Psychologists' association and to many, many more who have warned and told, because now is the time for knowledge-based drug policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3970	Now we've heard the government parties talk about their prevention and treatment reform, but what I hear is really just more of the same. This is not a reform. It is well and good to continue to bet on prevention and treatment, just as it has been done in the past that we have followed the escalation plan in the drug field from 2016 to 2020, and we are going to follow that also this government is following the golden rule that there should be an increased commitment to drug treatment and mental health, and that it should be greater than the investment in somatic matters in health businesses. It has been followed up by the previous government. When I hear this discussion, I'm also very happy that we didn't wait to get more drugs and drugs into the LAR treatment, that we started to have more drugs to use in the injection rooms, that we turned the injection rooms into user rooms, made it possible to smoke, and also started heroin-assisted treatment. I'm not sure if this was a big deal and this government would have been willing to do this if it hadn't already started. But in this debate I have not heard one argument as to why we need punishment, and why punishment helps. Like probably many others, I know people, for many years, who have both fallen into a drug addiction, and who have fallen into a drug addiction and come out of it through treatment – mainly because they have become tired of the life they have had, and then they realize that something has to be done. I've also known people who have lost their lives because of their addiction to alcohol, with the tragedy that it is. But punishment has had no meaning in getting them out of the situation. On the contrary, it has made it more difficult. Then, over 35 years, I have, of course, also known many people who have used drugs, also illegally. Most people have done well, and they have quit the practice they have had. And neither can I find one example where punishment and meeting with the police would have a positive impact. Nor can I see that there is any argument in this debate that shows that punishment for young people is going to have a positive effect today. On the contrary, we have enough examples of that concern for punishment raising the threshold for asking for help, whether you are in an overdose situation or raising the threshold for asking for other help. Fortunately, there is a trend in this field internationally, going in the right direction, and we get to believe that Norway is also following.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3981	The representative Sandra Bruflot has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3986	I think people have got what I and Right mean, so this is a explanation of vote that we're going to try to remember until Thursday. The proposals of the Progress Party and others may be good proposals in isolation, but here they are the alternatives to a drug reform, and therefore we are voting against. Some of the solved suggestions from SV are interesting, but we have to discuss them more thoroughly than we get when they are promoted as solutions. That's why we're voting against, but we're open to discuss it again later.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e3991	I am pleased that a total increase is pointing towards a modern drug policy that helps and does not punish. I would like to say a little about the reform work we are doing well, which will be presented to the Stortinge in the course of 2023. The Health Directorate has already been given the task of developing the knowledge base on which we are building the reform process, and the Institute of Public Health has been informed that we will be asking for assistance for the work on the reform. We follow up on the overdose prevention work, and I have commissioned the Health Directorate to assess legislative changes that support work on reducing drug-induced deaths. This includes, inter alia: clarify the legislation on the short-term stabilising use of substitution drugs in immediate help situations, but they shall also propose how further work is to be organised on the basis of an up-to-date knowledge base. We have facilitated increased treatment in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment and mental health protection by 350 million. kr in the year’s budget. We're also going to grant $30 million. Development and testing of lowthreshold treatment services in municipalities for children and young people with mental health problems and emerging drug problems. We have used funds to strengthen measures such as the establishment of interdisciplinary outreach treatment teams, which are also important for people with concomitant drug and mental disorders. An important point in the Hurdal platform is about LAR. The revised LAR guideline is now being completed. This should also describe how LAR low-threshold services should be developed. The trial of heroin-assisted treatment is under way. I had the pleasure of opening it. Here, the Directorate-General for Health should facilitate testing of substitution treatment for addicts to benzodiazepines and stimulants. It's going to add up. To the representative of Elvesuen, who makes strawman arguments an art: The National Labour Party meeting decided to go in for heroin-assisted treatment in 2015. I had the pleasure of opening the clinic. The Elvestu demonstrates once and for all that what is being said from this pulpit – for which both you and I have great respect, President – does not necessarily have to be true.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4004	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4021	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4028	As the rapporteur on the matter, I would like to thank the Committee for its commitment and work on this matter. The Council of State has delivered its opinion and a written hearing has been held. There we've got 16 hearings within the deadline that we've taken into account in our work. I will then move on to attach some comments to the matter, as a committee member from the Central Party for this is an important matter, and that is a cause of joy. The Labour Party and the Centre Party have already addressed this issue only after a few months in the government offices. It is important, because if we do not act now, the transport sector reports that we can lack several thousand transport drivers within ten years. Making sure that we have enough teachers to train more young people to move in this direction will therefore be very important to prevent a driver crisis. It's about having food in the shops and bus drivers to drive us around, and about the industry and our business going to run out of their goods. This case therefore requires action both in the short and long term. First of all, we are very happy that we have increased the capacity of the education we have today, quickly, by giving more money to 25 additional places of study at the North University of Stjørdal, which is to be started already in the autumn. It's important to remedy the situation we're in right now. At the same time, there is a great potential for making changes in education to ensure long-term recruitment. Because we have to admit that it is a paradox that a person who has been a heavy-duty driver for many years, who knows his or her subject, knows the conditions on the Norwegian roads and wants to help to learn away exactly that, needs to return to school in order to spend more time in Norwegian and history, or that this is the only profession you can't teach in at the same time as you take the education. That's why it's good that from the autumn we'll make it better for people with real skills to get into the education. It is good that the government should now equate the heavy-duty car subject with other professional subjects and enable experienced drivers with professional letters to teach at the same time as they take the necessary teacher training. At the same time, together with the institutions that train traffic teachers, we need to look at how we can make education even more accessible, so that it is possible to combine it independently of where you live and what family and professional life you have. It is about changes in length and structure and making the offer even more decentralised and flexible. There's a lot of possibilities here. The most important thing, however, is that the Workers' Party and the Centre have now announced a change of pace in this policy. The lack of heavy-duty drivers has been an alarming problem over the years, and the fear of a disaster affecting the transport of goods and persons across the country is great. I am delighted with the important work and look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4045	‘Smart hands’ are among the most important political books written in the Nordic region in the 2000s. Mattias Tesfaye, now Danish Council of State, explains in the book how countries investing in vocational education and training are becoming richer, safer and more innovative. In the Nordic region, we have had a tradition of respecting the independence and wisdom of professionals, whether on the road or on the industrial floor. The majority agree on this matter, therefore, has far greater scope than what you might be able to see if you're just slipping on the title and title quickly. First of all, it's about, as the rapporteur said, we have to make sure that we have enough bus and trailer drivers to carry both people and goods. Secondly, in a broader perspective, this case is really about a new course and a turnaround that the new Workers' Party-Center Party government is about to roll out into school and education policy, a direction built on professional investment and respect for the very wise hands. Therefore, it was so gratifying that even though many years had passed when professionals in the heavy-duty field were excluded from starting their education, the State Council Borten Moe took only three months to say that it is now the turn of professionals. On the landline in my own country, we need so many teachers now that we have to use pensioners in teaching to keep the offer up. That is why it is so joyful that we get healthy action. At the top of it all – as if this were not enough for industry and business and to include young people in work – today is a great victory for road safety, because it is only through enough skilled drivers who know Norwegian roads and winter conditions, and who can secure goods and goods, that we others are also safe on our roads. There are people who – correctly – point out that this case only has winners. Then I asked myself the following question: Why has it not been introduced before? That's a good question, and it has a clear answer. It is linked to the fact that there have been some who have had great power of definition in our society and who have been able to define academic education as the only salvaging thing. Some of them have claimed that skilled workers cannot enter the teacher training for a heavy-duty car, as it will go beyond, among other things. road safety. That's 180 degrees wrong. This is security in practice for both people and goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4056	In the past, I worked with logistics recruitment, and the recruitment of truck drivers was an important part of the work. Also at the time it was difficult to get hold of Norwegian drivers, and when we were going to have a holiday settlement, we often had to go to Iceland to pick up temporary workers. In the longer term, cooperation with secondary schools was essential, both in connection with contacts and in order to get apprentices. For many enterprises, the work of apprentices is crucial and an important part of the work on future recruitment. Sauda's continuing school was for me a good partner for several years, and it's one of the schools that has a good reputation for delivering good apprentices. When I again visited the school as a politician, a problem arose that I had not previously known. Not only is there a great need for professional drivers in transport and logistics, but one of the bottlenecks, as I said earlier, is also the lack of traffic teachers. A number of industry actors are concerned about the precarious shortage and have asked for action. Several teachers are well above retirement age, and they need painful recruitment for an important profession. During the work on the proposal, we have identified several obstacles, ranging from lack of study competence to economics, duration and implementation of the study. In the light of this, we have proposed that, in dialogue with education providers and relevant sectors, the government should assess possible changes in road teacher training and, in particular, how access, flexibility and scope of education could best meet the high demand. We also asked the government to assess an alternative training course in which heavy transport becomes its own basic training in parallel with car training. There was broad support for the proposals in the consultation, and it is gratifying that, after the proposal was promoted, the government has taken the initiative to follow up the issue quickly. In the further work, it is important that government not only looks at the number of study places, but also makes the study more flexible, assembly-based and better adapted students in all ages and life situations. It should be possible to take this training at the same time as you are active and can live with your family and live your normal life. Several have pointed out that the level of tuition of the road teacher is also perceived as an obstacle to recruitment. The addition of 30 study credits to become a traffic instructor today requires a self-payment of 131 500 kroner. In addition, travel and subsistence expenses are quite substantial for students if the education requires a full-time campus-based training course, which gives good reason to facilitate the provision of training in several places, more flexible and collective, as well as to continue improving the Borrowing Fund schemes for adults. Today, we are solving problems for real people. There is a small number of these, but it is absolutely essential for us to be able to train professional drivers and ensure the safety and quality of the driver’s seat. With that, I'll take up the suggestions we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4073	The representative Margret Hagerup has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4078	We have a shortage of heavy-duty drivers in Norway. It goes beyond both industry and not least all those who depend on transport to run their industry. It's despite good search for the eleven landlines for heavy-duty drivers. The bottleneck, as many people have said, is that we don't have enough traffic instructors. Therefore, it is good that this year's budget provides for additional training places to recruit more traffic teachers and heavy-duty drivers, and that more provision is made to enable people with real professional competence to qualify for admission to basic training and then further to vocational training for heavy-duty vehicles. It's two good actions right now. In addition, we need to look at the longer-term grips to ensure recruitment, as several have mentioned. Then more people point to both the structure and the length of the study, how expensive the self-payment is, and the requirement for study competence. That is why it is good that the Ministry of Knowledge should engage in dialogue with, among other things. Oslomet and Nord University to make changes so that road teacher training for heavy-duty vehicles becomes their own integrated two-year education. It is good for the majority to state that a new model of decentralised modular services that can be combined with work and family life needs to be explored. SV will follow this case further and expect work to go quickly and deliver good results. The time is ripe for skilled workers to be able to train the next generation of heavy-duty drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4089	If trucks, buses and freight stops rolling, there is a lot that stops all over Norway. To keep the wheels running, we probably need drivers, and to have enough drivers, we need enough traffic instructors for heavy vehicles. It's kind of a pretty straightforward problem. The representatives of Eskeland, Helleland, Jønes, Sanner, Harberg and Hagerup point out that 10,000 drivers are needed for the next 8-10 years, according to estimates from the Norwegian Lastebileier-Federal Association. A very recent study conducted by the Nordic University in cooperation with the Norwegian Transport School Association suggests that as many as 100 heavy-duty drivers are needed in the coming years. This is something I'm serious about. In a very short time, the government decided to finance 25 additional places of study for traffic teacher training at the University of Nord. The plates are ready for this year's recording. At the same time, Nord University reduced the requirements to be admitted to real competences in order to make it easier for people with a background to enter the profession. When the numbers of real-time applicants are ready on 25 April, I expect to see a clear rise in those applicants. These are measures in the short term, but I have not finished this matter with it. The same representatives ask the government to investigate changes in traffic teacher training. They point to the flexibility and scale of education and further to the appropriateness of evaluating an alternative training course for heavy-duty drivers. I think it is commendable that the representatives also take this matter seriously. It's almost so I think we might have talked to the same people -- it's just a speculation, of course. At least we are in the process of figuring out what road teacher training should be like in the future. The Ministry has had a meeting with the two universities providing traffic teacher training, as well as a meeting with the Ministry of Transport and the State Road Administration. Next week we will gather all these actors and look at how traffic teacher training should be in order to serve the needs of society in the best possible way. In particular, I am concerned about ensuring that we have the right capacity for education in the short and long term, and that we can recruit enough qualified students – also with the background of the profession. Furthermore, I am committed to looking at how education should be reasonably available in terms of geography and how education can be combined with a profession and family in a flexible way. We will also assess whether vocational training can be one of the alternatives to solving the challenge of heavy car training. Finally, we will also look at the budgetary implications of different study models in the future. We have to assess that in the ordinary budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4106	The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4111	Professional drivers are defective – we agree on that. We have a responsibility to shed light on important professions, and professional drivers are important to us all throughout our lives. Without them, goods do not come either out or in, and there will be no public transport. It's the professionals who transport the girlfriend we have to and from school, it's the ones who make sure that the goods produced in the mainland industry get to the customers in Europe quickly and safely, and it's the ones who make sure there's food in the shelves at the store. My county, Inland, is a large transport group. Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal Association has nearly 500 companies with around 3000 drivers as members only in the Inland. 20 pst. the members declare that they have undeclared posts. The NLF Inland is one of many actors who want changes in traffic teacher training to ensure adequate recruitment of traffic teachers for heavy-duty vehicles. The average age of heavy cars is high. At Sevendal Traffic School in Hamar, the four heavy cars have an average age of 60 years. It's not just where the average age is high, it's also in other traffic schools and in high schools around the country. Professional drivers have a very important role in society, and we are totally dependent on recruiting more. It starts with access to teachers. It's not easy to be heavy-duty, and we want to do something about it. We want to ensure that good, safe and experienced professionals, who want to do so, can become more expensive, and that they can take that education independently of where they live and what family situation they have. Education must be flexible and modular and must be available in real terms. SOTIN – the cooperation body of transport and logistics training offices in Norway – writes in its opinion: ‘Training as a driver is demanding, both theoretically and practically. Consequences of inadequate/bad training are potentially high. We therefore want the admission to the road teacher training for heavy-duty vehicles to be given greater emphasis than at present to applicants with professional letters and broad and relevant experience as a professional driver. We believe that this is an important contribution to achieving the zero vision against fatal and severe damage in traffic, as decided by the Stortinget in 2002.’» They support all the Right's proposals. We need many new professional drivers in the years to come, and we need to make it easier and more attractive to be heavy-duty drivers. Through the process of this proposal, I have met and talked with many heavy-duty drivers and students. Common to them is that they are proud of their profession and the choice they have made. The right-hand objective of promoting this proposal is education that is more accessible to those with the relevant skills, and that more people will want to become more expensive in the future, so that we can train future professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4132	At a time of great crisis management, we are reminded that one of the most important things we can do is prevent crises. Political intervention could prevent or limit future crises at an early stage. Today, we are discussing measures that could be important in order to avoid a future crisis. There is no doubt that Norway would experience a shortage of professional drivers, it would be a crisis for our country. And it's unfortunately not an unlikely scenario. Nevertheless, it is important to take action early. Over two years of pandemic, we've become aware of how vulnerable we are, and especially in the face of unmet situations. Important health professionals have been properly commended for the job they have done through the pandemic. But in the same way that our body has several vital organs that we couldn't handle without, the circulation is absolutely fundamental for those organs to work. The transport industry is our society’s ‘blood race’. Without professional drivers who, over two years of pandemic, had been willing to take more risks than others to carry out their important transport mission, not a single hospital in this country had worked — no shops had received their goods, no waste had been collected. Thank you very much for your efforts during the pandemic and for the job they do every day. The role they play in our society's functioning cannot be underestimated. The danger of lack of professional drivers has been pointed out not only by the industry itself, but also by the schools that train drivers. The lack of trainers was one of the first to be pointed out both by the industry and by the schools. After the Central Party and the Labour Party won the elections last fall, the government quickly took important steps to improve the situation. The proposal today is based on many of the same recordings, and it must be allowed to say that had the proposers from the Right started this work when they had the power, we could have come much longer. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that the parts that are currently in opposition have woken up and seen the importance of gripping. Already early this year, State Council Ola Borten Moe announced 25 new places of study for driver training at the North University of Stjørdal, while at the same time the University has opened up for people with experience but no study competence to search. This is important and sensible, for ten years of running around the country on all kinds of roads in all kinds of weather can be at least as valuable as general study competence when the job is to train young drivers. Today, the Committee also calls on the government to facilitate the teaching of professional drivers at the same time as they take formal training. This will make it easier for educational institutions to ensure that several elephants can complete driver training.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4145	One of the greatest challenges facing our society today is the lack of skilled workers. The lack of skilled workers weakens the competitiveness of our industry, and it also weakens the quality of our welfare services. I live at 714 County Road, the so-called Laksewegen, from Orkland to Frøya. I saw in the paper that today there were three car trains in an accident. I will not wonder what the reason for this is, but having well-trained heavy-duty drivers is very important. Then it is also important that we have teachers who have real skills as drivers, who know Norwegian roads, who know winter conditions and know what equipment they should use when winter starts. When the industry experiences weak recruitment, it is important that we strengthen the training of traffic instructors with specialisation in heavy vehicles, not least when we are transporting our children and adults around. But the quantity must not be at the expense of quality. Therefore, it is important that we have drivers with a background as heavy-duty drivers who take further training as professional teachers. Well-trained professionals are important and necessary to strengthen education in all disciplines. As a tradesman myself, I have to say that I have had many teachers who were trained as a tradesman, but who had taken on further training. It was important that they knew the industry in which they were to spread knowledge. That's why I'm very pleased that the Big Government has so quickly taken hold of this area and granted extra money through State Council Borten Moe for the current year, in order to strengthen these educations by, among other things. North University. One of the most important recruitment measures that you can do is to make it easier for professionals with real skills to take on-the-job training, but not to put an end to the economic, distance and family situation that these drivers can take on such training. When well-qualified workers with relevant training want to take on-the-job training, it is very important, because it helps to improve the quality of the pupils who will become heavy-duty drivers, and not least the quality of the trainers. It is important for the government to continue the good work of coordinating legislation and for those with recognised education and real skills to have the same opportunities as other trades with trades and trades. As I said, the government's work on this will help to strengthen recruitment, seriousness and, above all, road safety on Norwegian roads, and the competitiveness of this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4162	At the risk of delaying in a long day, I could not hump myself. I haven't been in opposition for so long, but if that's how everything one hasn't managed to do anything in position, not being able to advance as current policy, I just think I have to go down and try to torment myself through this period and get back to the private business. I think it is very good that there is so much support for the proposal that we have presented today. I would like to make it clear that the Right also in the government raised the professional profession for several years and made sure that record many now complete. I think it's worth reminding the representatives who are now in government, that no one promoted this proposal when they themselves put in opposition, so if they thought it was so incredibly important to get the new course, maybe the Sandtroe might have thought it a little earlier, too. But I choose to end the debate with the fact that today we have to rejoice that we are giving gas to more professional drivers on the roads – both the opposition and the position. That's good news for many on our roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-29.ana.ud402e4169	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what it looks like. The meeting has been cancelled.
