ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e93	The President would like to congratulate representatives and employees today. The representatives of Trine Lise Sundnes and Torstein Tvedt Solberg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Akershus: Tore Vamraak For Finnmark: Terje Hansen For Hordaland: Charlotte Spurkeland For Uppland: Torleid Swell There are two letters from the Prime Minister's office to Stortinget. The first letter, dated 4 March 2022, reads: ‘Amendments by Governments and State Secretaries The Council of State was held at the Royal Palace on March 4, 2022 p.m. 1100 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Councillor Hadia Tajik is dismissed in mercy. Government Council Björn Selnes Schjöran takes over the board of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, in addition to his current responsibility for fisheries and marine affairs in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries. State Secretarys Maria Schumacher Walberg, Truls Aronsen Wickholm and Nancy Lystad Herz are dismissed from office as State Secretary for the Council of State Hadia Tajik and are re-appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Bjørn Selnes Kärran in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. The amendments shall take effect from 4 March 2022 at 1 p.m. 12:00.’ The second letter, dated March 7, 2022, reads: ‘Changes in the composition of the Government and changes among the State Secretaries The Council of State was held at the Royal Palace on March 7, 2022 p.m. 1300 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Councillor Marte Mjøs Persen takes over from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Government Council The Board of Directors of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion of Selnes Schjöran ceases to exist. Parliamentary representative Terje Aasland is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretary Truls Aronsen Wickholm is pardoned as Secretary of State for the Council of State Bjørn Selnes Schüran in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. State Secretarys Maria Schumacher Walberg and Nancy Lystad Herz are dismissed as Secretary of State for the Council of State Bjørn Selnes Schjärn in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and are re-appointed State Secretary for the Council of State Marte Mjøs Persen in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. The Head of Region of Stian Nyhus is appointed State Secretary for the State Council, Marte Mjøs Persen, Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. State Secretary Amund Vik is pardoned as State Secretary to the State Council Marte Mjøs Persen in the Ministry of Oil and Energy and is re-appointed State Secretary to the State Council of Terje Aasland in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Political adviser Elisabeth Sether is appointed State Secretary to the State Council of Terje Aasland in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Mr Kjetil Vevle's constitution as State Secretary to the State Council Mr Marte Mjøs Persen of the Ministry of Oil and Energy ceases. He reinstates in his constitution as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre during the period of State Secretary Andreas Bjellland Eriksen's parental leave. The amendments shall take effect on 7 March 2022 at the latest. 14.00.’» The letters referred to shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. National Council changes entail the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The former member of the government, Hadia Tajik, has taken the seat of representative. The first alternate for Telemark, Jones Blikra, has taken office as a representative at the time the representative Terje Aasland is a member of the government. A number of permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representatives Hans Inge Myrvold and Maren Grøthe from 8 March onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Progressive Alliance on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representatives of Carl I. Hagen and Roy Steffensen from 8 March onwards and until further notice by the Workers' Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative Hadia Tajik from 8 March onwards and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Sør-Trøndelag, Geir Arild Espnes, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Maren Grøthes, cf. Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy § 5, second sentence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hordaland: Sara Hamre Sekkingstad For Uppland: Lars Rem For Rogaland: Tom Kalsås and May Helen Hetland Ervik For South-Trondelag: Marte Løvik
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e252	: Sara Hamre Sekkingstad, Lars Rem, May Helen Hetland Ervik and Marte Løvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e263	The representative of Ingunn Foss will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e268	On behalf of the representatives of Sveinung Stenland, Peter Frølich, Tage Pettersen, Turid Kristensen, Mudassar Kapur, Sandra Bruflot and myself, I am delighted to present, on this special date, March 8, 2022, proposals to strengthen the position of victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e273	The representative, Andreas Shelg Unneland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e278	Congratulations on Women's Day! On behalf of the representatives of Kirsti Bergstø, Kathy Lie, Marian Hussein and myself, I am delighted this day to make a proposal to strengthen the fight against rape by setting up a rape commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e283	The representative, Hege Bae Nyholt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e289	Congratulations on the day! On behalf of the representatives Seher Aydar, Sofie Marhaug, Marie Sneve Martinussen and myself, I would like to make proposals for a strengthened, equivalent, year-round open and day-to-day crisis centre offer across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e294	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e299	Congratulations on the day! After having been through a few hours today early with the highest power prices in winter, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to extend the compensation scheme out of the summer and improve the scheme, so that the price above 50 hrs/kWt is compensated by 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e304	The representative, Mr Hemdal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e309	Congratulations on the day! On behalf of the representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I have the honour of presenting a proposal for a representative on freedom of choice for the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e314	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e319	I join the congratulations and will present a proposal for a representative to build a strong sea wind deployment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e324	The representative, Sofie Högstøl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e329	Congratulations on the day! On behalf of the representatives of Ola Elvestuen, Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I have the honour to promote a proposal for a 16-year-old vote in local elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e334	The representative of Himanshu Gulati will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e339	Congratulations on the day to everyone! It is a pleasure to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Silje Hämdal, Erlend Wiborg and myself – a proposal for a representative that I believe is important to many families – about the continuous admission of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e345	The representative, Mari Holm Lønseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e350	On behalf of Mudasar Kapur and myself, I would like to make a proposal to introduce an emergency shelter into the Planning and Building Act to deal with a large refugee influx.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e355	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Case No. 1 to 7 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e441	The cases are the second reading of the laws and relate to the legal decisions 39 to 45. Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e448	I take the floor on case No. 1st of the Money Gambling Act. It would be nice to have a Christian People's Party voted for B – a proposal that we do not support. I want to notify the government and have now said clearly in Stortinget that we are not going to accuse the government of not possibly complying with that decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e453	That's when it's explained. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e469	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e476	First, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. The Ministry of Justice proposes to amend Section 84 of the Foreign Affairs Act, on disclosure obligations and exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy of public bodies. The proposal implies that municipalities, county councils, universities, colleges, independent schools, student associations and the Directorate for Higher Education and Competences are obliged to provide information to the body dealing with a case under the Foreign Affairs Act, if necessary for information on the matter. The aim of the change is to ensure efficiency and user-friendliness, as well as to facilitate the automation of the application procedure concerning a student residence permit. The Ministry also proposes that Section 95 of the Foreign Affairs Act legislates an entry for the King to provide detailed provision in the regulations on social security for residents of the recipients of asylum, and it proposes amendments to the rules on permanent residence permits in the second and fifth paragraphs of Section 62 of the Foreign Affairs Act. It is proposed to clarify, in the second paragraph of Section 62, that family members of non-residents who have received a permanent residence permit on the basis of a temporary residence permit in accordance with Section 28 or Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act are covered by the housing requirement of five years. A technical amendment is also proposed in the fifth paragraph of Section 62 of the Foreign Affairs Act. Although the Left supports the need for an effective and secure procedure in matters relating to residence permits, I would like to briefly explain some thoughts. We see the concern that no consent is needed to obtain information, but there is also a situation where you cannot refuse this, as the authorities consider it necessary to stay. Good and rigorous assessments of the necessity requirement against privacy are important. All should be given the opportunity to be consulted on matters relating to their possibility of a residence permit. As regards the part to clarify that family members of non-residents who have received a permanent residence permit on the basis of temporary residence are also subject to the five-year residence requirement, it is interesting that both government parties have twice voted against such a proposal. It's going to be exciting to see what's going on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e489	New technology makes it possible to automate the processing process more fully, but if we are to be able to do so, we also depend on the regulation to allow personal data to be shared across borders. That is also why this bill is good and important. This ensures that, inter alia: municipalities, county councils and universities are obliged to provide information to the body dealing with a case under the Foreign Affairs Act, if it is necessary for the information of the case when someone is applying for a study stay. It is also important, of course, to assess the impact of privacy before the home is provided. I think that in the proposition it is well explained why this is in line with our privacy rules, among other things. that it is in line with the necessity requirement and that it does not involve any disproportionate interference for the individual. The right also supports the fact that the government has access to the provision of asylum assistance in the regulation. It is important that the government has the opportunity to make changes quickly if needed. Now we're in a very special situation. There are a lot of people who are fleeing the world, and there are a lot of people who are fleeing Ukraine, and who are moving across Europe. Many of those who are coming now are fleeing to known networks. They go to their own family, or they live in private. What we are facing now will also require a formidable effort by the municipalities, the asylum recipients and local communities. Many have also said that they will open their own homes. Of course, it can also be an important relief for the reception capacity, which is now to be built up. In principle, if you do not live in an asylum facility, you do not have the right to asylum aid either. It's a social benefit to stay alive. That is the reason why I am addressing the solution proposed by the Right today, in which we are asking the Government to quickly assess how refugees with temporary collective residence living outside asylum can be temporarily guaranteed support for their livelihoods. It's important that such a social benefit is well-received. We need to have control of who's here, where they live, and that, of course, also has to be curtailed against other income. We promote that proposal in order to help municipalities and receptions in a difficult situation, and also to be able to provide support to those who are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e500	The representative Mari Holm Lønseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e505	I have been on leave, so I came in at the end of the treatment of this matter. The progress party is behind the setting because here we think it's important to have the most transparency and the best possible flow of information, and that the available information that's there should actually be made available, so that we make sure that those who are staying get it on the right basis. I took the floor for the proposal that was just promoted from the Right. The progress party has it to assess and will later clarify exactly what we are doing with it. Much indicates that we are going to support the proposal even though it is not our primary view at all, because the idea behind the proposal is very good. Making sure that not everyone necessarily has to live on asylum recipients if they have other alternatives is a thought the Progress Party supports, perhaps especially in the situation we are currently in. At the same time, it is worth recalling that the lead view of the Progress Party on the solution would rather be work and residence permits, and thus the need for this proposal would fall away. A lot also suggests – based on what the government announced at the end of last week, that the government will come and explain in the Stortingen on Thursday – that there will be collective protection, and then this proposal may have something to do with it. I just want to make that clarification right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e514	It is absolutely essential that we have good systems that ensure legal certainty and effective procedures in matters relating to residence permits. These are matters that affect individuals and families at all, most strongly and require the greatest permissiveness. SV is behind the advice in the case. But there is always room for improvement in one case, and here we support the reflections of the MiRA Centre and Jussbuss on how important it is to have strict assessments of the necessity requirement. In a digital and transparent world, we have increased the necessary attention to privacy and the need to own personal data. It must apply to everyone, including people moving between different countries. It is therefore necessary to make a strict assessment of the necessity and of the fact that the information has been considered relevant to the outcome of the case before setting aside fundamental rights such as privacy. This should be emphasised in the further work and in the practice of the law. There is a proposal in this case which is a consequence of previous decisions, namely the amendment of the permanent residence permit rule. One would like to clarify that the requirement to live for family members is increased from three to five years. This is a controversial issue and has met criticism from several parties during the negotiations on the state budget for 2021, including the government parties. The proposal was also criticised when it was promoted in 2015, and it shows that there should now be a majority for a new decision here. The government has a good opportunity to do something about this, so even if it is not natural to do it in this case, we expect that by a new proposal this can get a good treatment and perhaps also a majority to change back to three years, which in SV's opinion should be sufficient. In this case we are satisfied with some comments, and we hope they are read and taken into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e525	Red refers to hearings conducted by the MiRA Centre, which considers that this proposal may be contrary to the necessity requirement of the EU Regulation requiring personal data to be necessary and important for the outcome of a case. In particular, the MiRA Centre aims at a formulation where the department, although it is pointed out that the information collected must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes, notes: ‘However, the criterion of necessity must not be understood so narrowly as to make it a condition that the information actually becomes relevant in the individual case or is decisive for the outcome of an individual case. It will often be difficult to determine whether information is necessary before it has been evaluated.» The MiRA Centre believes that this wording is very problematic, and that the vague wording is likely to lead to the collection of personal data becoming the norm, even in cases where the information has no relevance to the outcome of the case. It is also considered that the MiRA Centre is contrary to the necessity criterion of the EU Regulation, and they cannot see that the general reference to control considerations and effectiveness can be used as a justification for strong interference with the legal rights of individuals or that it is proportionate to the deterioration of privacy and privacy that the interferences in the proposal involve. Furthermore, Red refers to the Jussbuss hearing in this case. We also share the view that it must be based on consent as a basis for treatment. There has been a loose proposal from the Right today, which is supported by Red. We think it is an important proposal, and we are fully in favour of it, but we are not going to be in favour of the committee's recommendation on this matter here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e539	I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee seems to support the proposal that allows the foreign authorities to obtain personal data directly from educational institutions. In order to ensure that the management uses accurate and up-to-date information, I believe that the foreign authorities should be able to obtain the necessary training information already provided by the non-resident to other actors, without going through the applicant himself. Such access will lead to a more efficient procedure, and it will also be more user-friendly for the applicant. With regard to the use of consent, it follows from a new data protection regulation that this should not be used as a basis for collecting data where there is a clear bias between the data subject and the controller. This is particularly true where the controller is a public authority. A clear and limited legal base, as proposed here, will therefore strengthen the basis of law. The proposal is also a prerequisite for automating the process of dealing with study cases, which will help to reduce the length of the procedure. There can be no doubt that, through its proceedings, the non-resident authorities take care of important social interests and carry out tasks which are in the public interest. It is therefore essential that they have access to all relevant and necessary information. The possibility of improving efficiency and control is important, but it is also central that the proposal respects privacy. This is done by limiting the collection to what is necessary to deal with certain types of foreign affairs. This information may not be divulged from the foreign authorities to others without the data subject’s consent or specific legal basis. The treatment of foreign affairs requires demanding and comprehensive assessments. It is important to ensure the widest possible decision-making base within the framework of the data protection requirement. I believe that the proposal takes account of both these considerations. Then I record that there is a loose proposal made during the debate. I need to have time to look at what is in that proposal before the government can decide whether there is anything we can support over the table. To what's going on about accommodation for refugees from Ukraine in private homes: it's a problem that we're already looking at. It is important that the financial frameworks are arranged in such a way that we get the most space to receive Ukrainians – it may be in reception, in private homes and out in the municipalities – while we do not put it up so that we prevent people from getting into work or anything else. So we have to look carefully at the device in a possible order. Nor should the municipalities be left with high costs as a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e554	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e559	My question is precisely linked to the solution that we are promoting in the Chamber today. The background for doing that is just that we have to be prepared that there are going to be a lot of people. This is primarily good – even if you open asylum facilities and they have the opportunity to be registered and checked there. But there's also a situation where there may be a need to relieve the reception capacity if there are very many in a very short time, and it may also be desirable for someone maybe rather to stay with their familiar and loved ones. In order to underline the framework to which the Right also refers, it must, of course, be limited in time, it must be limited to purely living, and it must, of course, be curtailed against other income. I also support that you have to look at the device, so that it does not pay to stay out of work. If I understood the Council correctly in her posts, you're also working to look at some of this. Is that correctly understood? Is it also possible today, if any, to give a more detailed assessment of the approach taken to the proposal of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e569	I haven't had the opportunity to look at the proposal from the Right, so I can't take a stand on this right now. It was taken up during the debate, so what the government parties are doing there, the government will come back to. But I appreciate that the right picks up the problem. There is no doubt that with the huge migration crisis we are facing in Europe – we see it in neighbouring countries now, and we see that the refugees are beginning to come to Norway – we need to think about how we can use the resources we have around in Norway to house people and ensure that we do not get an accumulation beyond what we have the capacity to accept. Then, both reception, direct housing and the use of private homes are part of the assessment of how we should solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e576	Thanks for the answer. The question is also about financial arrangements for people who may not live on asylum receptions, which the government is already looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e581	Yes, it's part of the big case complex that we're now looking at, which is linked to the migration to Norway from Ukraine. We're going to implement a system of temporary collective protection quickly. We're looking at the frame of it. We scale up the reception capacity, and we also work against the municipalities on how to use the resources there in the best possible way – both the resources that lie in private homes, to the extent that we can facilitate it without doing so at the expense of others, and what other municipalities have to do with integration. Clearly, a massive influx of people into Norway will require us to work very widely. This is where the municipalities, school and health services – as well as everything about reception in the first line.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e586	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e605	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e614	I would first like to take the opportunity to congratulate you on 8 March, and then I would like to thank the Committee for a good job in this matter. The Ministry of Justice and Defence promotes in the bill a proposal for a clearer regulation and a anchoring in the Foreign Affairs Act of who is considered a party, the access to the use of proxy holders, and who has the right to complain in foreign matters. The Committee has taken note of the government's assessment that foreign affairs have several specific issues, which require some specific rules in addition to the general rules of the Administrative Act. The scope dealt with in the proposition is currently partly governed by the Administrative Act and partly by the Foreign Regulation. An overall committee agrees that it is beneficial that the main issues related to this should be regulated in a comprehensive and transparent manner in the law on non-residents. In this bill, the government proposes to move the legal definition of the party concept from the first paragraph of Section 17-1 of the foreign regulation to a new section 80a of the law, with some adjustments in the wording. In addition, a regulatory framework is proposed for further regulation of the concept of party. The Government also proposes to include the current provisions of Section 17-1, second paragraph, of the Foreign Regulation, on the right to be assisted by an agent in foreign affairs, in new Section 80(a) of the Foreign Affairs Act. In addition, a provision of the Foreign Affairs Act is proposed to lay down in the Foreign Regulation who should have the right to lodge a complaint in foreign matters. As regards the possibility for family members to have a legal interest in foreign affairs, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre and the Left, demonstrate that matters in the foreign field are of a very personal nature and that this may require specific rules on the right of appeal. The majority point to the fact that the fourth paragraph of Section 80a of the Act provides a basis for such special regulation to take place only in the form of regulations, and assumes that the Department will follow up on the investigation and implementation of any necessary regulatory regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e631	Foreign affairs can be demanding for our system to handle. There is a lot of information, but also often lack of information and particular issues related to people not staying in the country. It is therefore understandable that legislative adjustments and efforts should be made to make it as appropriate and effective as possible. There's a lot of considerations to take, and some people have to weigh heavier than others. The SV therefore endorses the NOAS consultation opinion where it is noted that there are issues where it may be demanding and perhaps impossible for an applicant to exercise its own rights. Family members must then be able to be granted a party status. This should be possible in particular in matters relating to the legal certainty of children and in expulsion proceedings. The best interests of children are not adequately taken into account in current practices and the consequences for children and their family relationships become serious. More often and more often, we see individual issues that concern us, issues where the local environment and individuals are faced with unfairness, and that children suffer from a treatment system that appears to be more faithful to strict interpretation of the rules than a discretionary assessment of the best of their children. The SV is therefore promoting two proposals in the case. We propose that the government investigate and promote a proposal that family members should have a legal interest in foreign affairs. We believe that this should be an opportunity that will help ensure legal certainty and better clarify matters and get correct decisions. The second proposal, which we also support, is that we ask the government to start work to strengthen the rights of children and family members to information, participation and access to justice in line with the recordings and views of several hearing bodies mentioned in this case. By supporting these proposals, a few steps will be taken in the process of turning a practice that is strict today towards a more humane and solidarity policy in this area. I'll bring up the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e644	The representative Grete Wold has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e649	I forgot to congratulate myself on the day before, so I took the opportunity to do it now. In the Norwegian Asylum Seeker’s, NOAS’, consultation opinion on this matter, it is noted that there may be cases where it would be difficult for an applicant to respect its party rights and that other family members should be given party status. This will be particularly relevant in cases where the principal is abroad, but it may also be relevant in other cases. We know with good reason that it is time to strengthen children's rights, and especially in cases of the expulsion of children's parents. Red therefore supports further investigation into how the rights of the child and the family to information, participation and access to justice can be strengthened. Nevertheless, Red considers that the existing legal mechanisms that we have today, which are intended to protect the rights of children, are not sufficient and that the practice of the alienation authorities demonstrates that the best interests of the child, which must be a fundamental consideration in all matters affecting children, are taken into account. inter alia: The Basic Law § 104 is often not adequately emphasised. Therefore, the Red promotes today, together with the SV, proposals that the Storting ask the Government to strengthen the rights of children and family members to information, participation and access to justice in line with the recordings and views of several hearing bodies mentioned in this proposition. In addition, like the SV and the Left, Red believes that there is good reason why family members should have a legal interest in foreign affairs, as the Ministry of Justice and Defence itself, the Justice and Defence Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Supreme Court have underlined. Therefore, along with the SV and the Left, Red supports the proposal that the Storting should ask the Government to investigate and propose that family members should have a legal interest in foreign affairs. With that I refer to the proposals that Red is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e660	The Ministry of Justice and Defence proposes a clearer regulation and anchoring in the Foreign Affairs Act of who is considered a party, access to the use of proxy holders, and who has the right to complain in foreign matters. This is essentially a sensible clarification of the laws and regulations so that the intention behind the proposals is better understood. With regard to the intention behind the proposal we are discussing today, this is partly regulated in the Administrative Act and partly in the Foreign Regulation. The rationale for regulating the main issues related to this in a comprehensive and transparent manner in foreign policy. It is good that the Department assumes, among other things: that it would be appropriate to provide that children who do not fall within the scope of the definition but are nevertheless affected may be granted party rights in special situations in which the child's parents are not themselves able to exercise their rights as parties to the case. Foreign affairs have a number of specific issues which require specific rules in addition to the general rules of the Administrative Act. It is positive that consideration is now being given to how best to ensure that children’s right to be heard can be exercised in expulsion cases involving them. It is, after all, incredibly important that children's rights, especially in such cases, be respected in the best possible way. The Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court itself has stressed that there are good reasons why family members should have legal interests in foreign matters. It is therefore regrettable that we do not have such a proposal to discuss at this point in time. Therefore, the Left promotes a proposal together with SV and Red where we ask the Government to ‘examine and propose that family members should have a legal interest in foreign affairs’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e669	This bill, which was promoted by the previous government, implies that the main issues relating to the concept of a party in foreign affairs should be fully regulated in the Foreign Affairs Act, in order to obtain a more transparent law. Since foreign affairs are matters of a very personal nature, it is important to ensure that the ‘principal person’ is able to control which personal information is shared with others. If the principal person in the case wishes family members or others to have the rights of the party to the case, he may choose to grant the family member an authorisation to act on his or her behalf. A concept of a party that is limited to the main person in the case is also important for an effective handling of the cases, and I notice that this has been highlighted in the hearing, among other things. Lawyers' Association. The fact that close family members may in many cases be heavily affected in foreign affairs is, in principle, an indication that they should also be able to obtain party status. However, there is a limited actual need for family members to have party status at first instance, as other rules – both in the Foreign Affairs Act and in other legislation – safeguard their fundamental rights. In special situations where it is particularly difficult for the party to exercise its party rights, it is provided that other members of the family may act in the same way as at present without a written mandate, thereby exercising full party rights on behalf of the principal in the case. Although children who do not themselves apply for an authorisation do not receive party rights, both the Foreign Affairs Act, the Children’s Convention, the Constitution and the EMK have rules that ensure that children’s interests and rights are respected. In special situations where the child’s parents are not themselves able to exercise their rights as a party to the case, for example: because they are in an area or in a situation without contact with the Norwegian authorities, children may be granted party rights. The question of who should be entitled to appeal in foreign matters was not discussed in the hearing. In the light of the desire of several hearing bodies to clarify, a separate provision of the Foreign Foreign Regulations Act has been proposed. In this way, it is made apparent that there may be a specific regulation of who has the right to complain in foreign matters. I have asked the Foreign Affairs Directorate to prepare a proposal for the rules of complaint by the beginning of the next six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e688	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e705	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e714	Thank you to the Committee for Good Cooperation, and thank you to SV, who is raising a case that has engaged many, focusing on a significant social and public health problem. Sexual abuse against children is a crime that is and must be a high priority. This case concerns whether Norwegian criminal law is in line with Norway's international obligations, and a desire to change the wording of the law in Section 295 without further investigation. Paragraph 295(c) of the Penal Code was intended to fulfil the obligations of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, the so-called Lanzarote Convention. The proposers ask the government to propose to amend the wording of Section 295(c) of the Penal Code, so that the use of a person under 18 years of age in a particularly vulnerable situation is covered by the wording. The proposal is due to the fact that Hålogaland freed two men from the law for using an intoxicated woman of 16 years and 2 months. Lawyers’ rights meant that the concept of living conditions did not include an isolated case of intoxication with subsequent reduced judgment. It is important that changes to the rules of criminal law on sexual offences take place on the basis of thorough work, so that changes do not have unintended consequences, and that law-makers provide good guidance and ensure that the intentions of the legislator are made clear. Provisions relating to different sexual abuses as a whole must ensure that the law is consistent with Norway’s obligations under international law. In March 2021, the Government of Solberg commissioned the Criminal Felony Council to carry out an overall review of the provisions of the Criminal Code on sexual offences, and it is natural that this proposal is included as part of this review, as confirmed by the Council of State in its reply to the Committee dated 8 December 2021. I recommend the recommendation, which reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the word ‘life situation’ in Section 295, first paragraph, point (c) of the Criminal Act should be changed to ‘situation’, so that the provision affects ‘to exploit a person under 18 years of age in a particularly vulnerable situation’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e732	Maria Aasen-Svensrud, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e737	Good President, congratulations on the day! First, I would like to thank the proposers for focusing on this important issue. The Labour Party and the Centre share the concerns of the proposers that the wording of the legislation does not necessarily make sense. It is essential that legal texts take the form they are intended to take, and not least that they take into account the different consequences of the wording. If not, the consequences of the law could have consequences that violate and weaken the legal protection of individuals. We are therefore pleased that the Ministry of Justice and Security in March 2021 commissioned the Criminal Felony Council to carry out an overall review of the provisions of the Criminal Code on sexual offences. This also includes Section 295, first paragraph, point (c), which affects the sexual exploitation of a person under 18 years of age in a particularly vulnerable situation in life. A more detailed design of the law raises a number of questions, with different considerations having to be balanced against each other. It is therefore necessary to consider several provisions in the context. It is important that changes to the criminal code on sexual offences take place on the basis of thorough work, so that changes do not result in unintended consequences, and that lawmakers provide good guidance. Good law-makers ensure that the intention of the law is made clear and, of course, is particularly important in this area of law. The review of the Chapter of the Criminal Code on Sexual Crime by the Criminal Felony Council will contribute to this. The provisions relating to different sexual abuses as a whole must ensure that the law is consistent with Norway’s obligations under international law. Therefore, the Criminal Felony Council is the appropriate body to carry out such assessments, and will be able to well elucidate these issues. For this reason, we believe that a good process is being set up by the Department when it is outlined that, after the Criminal Felony Council has made its recommendation, a comprehensive proposal for amendments to the chapter on sexual offences, including the necessary changes to Section 295(c) of the Penal Code, will be brought back. We have therefore, together with a majority in the Committee, tabled the following proposals for decisions: ‘The government asks the government to consider whether the word ‘life situation’ in Section 295, first paragraph, point (c) of the Criminal Act should be changed to ‘situation’, so that the provision affects it ‘to use a person under 18 years of age in a particularly vulnerable situation’.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e761	It is an appropriate day to deal with a proposal like this. Violence and sexual abuse against children are a major social problem, and society has a responsibility to prevent violence and abuse and to ensure that the law is consistent with our international obligations in cases of abuse. When we discover holes in the law, it is the Grandfather's responsibility to fix it. For completely concrete people, very specific lives, the decisions in this Chamber are crucial. Four letters meant the difference between whether those who used Tonje, who told their story to the NRK, could be judged for the sexual exploitation of children or not, for Norwegian courts have established that there is a difference between the words ‘life situation’ and ‘situation’. Paragraph 295(c) of the first paragraph of the Criminal Code is not in accordance with the intention of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, the Lanzarote Convention, Article 18(1). 1 (b), second and third indents. This makes defendants who today should be convicted of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children go free. The background to the proposal is, as has been said, a concrete matter which was at the heart of the law of the team. Two men were accused of sexual intercourse by exploiting a person under 18 years of age in a particularly vulnerable situation in life. Injured, who was 16 years old, was drunk when she came to one of the tops of the accused. She got served alcohol while she was there. The defendants took advantage of this to get sexual relations with her. The prosecution authorities stated that this was sufficient to say that insults had been in a particularly vulnerable situation this evening. The law freed the accused from the fact that the concept of ‘life situation’ was not found to include an isolated case of intoxication with subsequent reduced judgment. In this case, the Lawyer's Court agreed with the actor, the defenders and the aid lawyer that if the conditions of the law had been particularly vulnerable, the alleged facts would undoubtedly be affected. Injured was a child and should have had a claim that the adults she meets do not take advantage of her sexually. However, today’s legislation uses the word ‘life situation’, which was interpreted by the Law of Law rather than ‘situation’. The law of the court of law in the case in question read when Article 18 of the Lanzarote Convention and the explanatory report so that the parties to the Convention are required to criminalise cases in which a child who is under or through the actions of the perpetrators is under the influence of alcohol, with the vulnerability resulting from it being exploited by the perpetrators to obtain sexual intercourse with the child, as was the case in this case. When the law is so clear that we have a commitment, then we who are sitting on the Stortinget have a job with and a responsibility to clarify the legal text so that it is in line with the obligations of the Lanzarote Convention. That is why we believe in Swedish today that we have an opportunity to clean up the law. It would be in its place. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for that today. We get a majority in order for the government to start assessing changes to the law. It is good and something SV supports subsidiaryly, but we should do more. Rape is a major social problem. One in ten women experience rape during life, half before they turn 18. It's scary high numbers. It requires action from us on Stortinget. It requires that we do what is in our power, to prevent rapes from happening, and that when they happen, the criminal system should work. Then it is important that our law is consistent with the international obligations, but also in accordance with what is right and felt right. That is why SV fights for us to put in place a consent permit. That is why we are taking the fight to change the legal provisions when they do not take care of the citizens of society. Today it's March 8th, International Women's Day. Today we have the opportunity to seal a hole in the law. I hope that Stortinget supports SV's proposal. I bring this up with the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e780	The representative, Andreas Shelg Unneland, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e785	I usually don't use big words, but on one day like this, on the very day of the woman, I feel like we're failing young girls and boys who are being sexually assaulted by not closing this courtroom right now. The left supports the proposal that the Storting should ask the government to propose to amend the wording of Section 295 of the Criminal Code in the interests of minors for sexual offences. In a day like this, it hurts a little bit extra that we're in a minority. Violence and sexual abuse against children are a major social problem. Society has a responsibility to ensure that such abuses are prevented. As a legislative assembly, we have a special responsibility to ensure that criminal law protects vulnerable children and young people, and to ensure that the legal text is suitable for punishing offenders who commit crimes against minors. We also have a responsibility to ensure that criminal law is in line with our international obligations. In June last year, Hålogaland law imposed a sentence that aroused both sight and disgust. The law acquitted two powerful men who committed crimes against a 16-year-old girl. They served the already intoxicated 16-year-old alcoholic, so one man got up from the couch and asked her to follow him. She said no. Then he took her by the hand, pulled her into the bedroom and carried out intercourse with her. She was too full to resist. Then the other man had intercourse with her. The Sean was filmed, without the girl's consent. Nine videos from one of the defendants' phones were presented as evidence in court. The Lawyers' Court stated that there were no circumstances in the case that were suitable for creating doubts about the explanation of the offended person. The law also said that the actions were both highly reprehensible and punishable. Nevertheless, both men were found free. So how could this happen? How could the right of the teamman come to such a conclusion? The explanation is in the wording of Section 295 of the Criminal Code. The reason why the law freed the two men was that a girl who was sexually exploited one night she was overly drunk did not comply with the law’s requirement that she was in a ‘especially vulnerable situation’. The law's requirements would have been met if she had had a persistent drug problem. One night of intoxication was not enough. Had the law been required that insults were in a particularly vulnerable situation, the matter had changed in character. The wording of Section 295 of the Criminal Act as it stands today is not consistent with the intentions of the Lanzarote Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse. The relevant article of the Lanzarote Convention uses the term ‘particularly vulnerable situation’. The Explanatory Report to the Lanzarote Convention, to which reference is made in the preparatory work of the Criminal Code, details what this means. It states that the concept is also intended to cover situations in which a child is impaired in judgment as a result of the consumption of alcohol and drugs. Nevertheless, when law enforcement falls to a conclusion that the relationship is not to be penalised, it is because, in the field of criminal law, it is a specific requirement for clarity in the legal text and it is important in a legal state. When the wording is what it is, it does little to ensure that the legal text does not comply with international obligations. With this, the court plays ball to the legislator. The legislator has the ball at his feet in front of the open target and just has to fold it in. Anyway, we're shooting outside today. Today – on women’s day itself – we, the legislative assembly, young girls and boys that we could easily have helped with a slight change in the law. We could have clarified the legal situation by removing four letters that by an incursion have infiltrated the legal text. We don't choose to do that. Instead, we wait for the Criminal Council's investigation. I have great respect for the Criminal Council and their investigative powers, but here's a minor amendment to the law that we can do today, which will have an effect on those that apply now. We're hoping that next year, on the women's day, we'll be able to meet young victims of sexual abuse with our raised head, look them in the eyes, and say, this year – only this year – we did what we could to help you.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e808	First, I would like to thank the proposers for addressing an important issue. Today is the Women's Day, and it feels extra good to be here in the Storting and discuss violence and assault in the light of it. Abuse of children is a major social problem, and society has a responsibility to prevent abuse. We must ensure that the law to protect children and others from abuse is consistent with our obligations under international law. It is important for the government that we go through any changes to the penal code, because if we don't do the job properly, the result may be that we have an unclear law that has consequences other than it was intended in advance. That is why I do not think it is right – above the table and without a worker – to support a change in the law on punishment. The Criminal Prosecution Council is now reviewing the Chapter of the Criminal Code on Sexual Crime. They shall propose a regulation which, as a whole, respects the sexual self-determination of individuals and other essential requirements for the formulation of criminal law by the rule of law. The Council shall deliver the investigation by 15 December 2022. The question of whether the provisions of criminal law adequately protect individuals from being sexually exploited when drunk is one of the issues to be assessed by the Council of Criminal Law. The details of the rules designed to protect persons above the sexual deterrent from sexual exploitation raise difficult questions. It is important, as I said at the outset, that legislative changes in a legal area such as this take place on the basis of thorough work, so that changes do not have unintended consequences, and so that good guidance is given in law-making on what is meant by what is adopted. What is involved in the obligations of international law must be further assessed and the provisions of the Criminal Code on sexual offences considered by the government to be important in the context. These are rules that complement each other, and it is important that we have an overall review. The government believes it is important to be offensive in this area. Furthermore, protection against sexual exploitation must not go so far as to deprive the person to be protected of the right to determine his or her own sexual life. There are also issues that the Criminal Law Council should consider. I am in favour of the intention behind the proposal for a representative, but believe that we should await the investigation by the Criminal Law Council before considering whether, and possibly in what way, Section 295 of the Criminal Code should be amended. I therefore think it is a good proposal, the alternative available from the majority of the committee. I will come back with comprehensive proposals for changes to the Chapter of the Criminal Code on Sexual Crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e823	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e828	It may seem that there is a misunderstanding about what is actually the proposal of the minority, consisting of SV and Left, for what has been proposed is that the government is asked to come up with a bill to change the law so that it complies with our international obligations. The majority, with the support of the government, are in favour of assessing the need to make such changes. Then I would like to ask the Minister if the government disagrees with the law of the law of the law that today's law does not comply with Norway's international obligations, because they are quite clear that they believe it does not, and that a change must be made in order for today's law to comply with the obligations we have. Does not the Government share the understanding of Norway's international obligations by law?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e834	The government is concerned that we should have a law that protects children, young people and adults from sexual exploitation, against rape, and then I believe it is right to let the Criminal Law Council go through the entire chapter on sexual law offences and see this in context, and not that we are locking ourselves to the fact that there may be a small change in a wording that is the only right way. We believe it is important to look at: Can there be other gaps in the regulations? How are we going to see this? We want to introduce a consent law. We'll see about that. That is why I also believe in this case that it is right that we take the time to make thorough assessments, because there is no simple answer here, nor is it clear what extension of the penal code might be, if we accept the change proposed by the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e839	I have to disagree with the Minister of Justice when it is said that there are no simple answers. I would say, as the right of the teamman also claims, that it appears to be unfounded and not explained why the word ‘life situation’ was chosen instead of the word ‘situation’. You can read the Lawyers' Law in that way that they believe that there must have been an incursion here. Then I think it's strange that the government's main argument is that you don't want to fix this incubator, precisely because you're afraid of the consequences. Now we've seen the consequences of this. We have seen a very concrete case that has been in the media, in which the law of law states that they wish to be judged in this matter, but you cannot, because the strict principle of legality of the penal law is not in accordance with our international obligations. How will the Minister make sure that this is actually changed, and not just assessed changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e844	First, I would like to stress that I cannot go into individual matters. The representative explains that it is unclear why a wording in the penal code is the same because there is no pre-worker who illuminates this. There is some reason why we now believe it is important to have a good and thorough work on possible changes to the criminal law, because when we adopt changes, we also need to be sure that they have the intended consequences, and that the follow-up becomes in line with the intention behind the proposal. Therefore, it is important that changes to the penal code are treated in a thorough and proper way. Then I'm very happy that an overall committee is clear that violence and abuse are going to be fought against. We need a good law. Then I record that there are two parties that are in a minority, but I think we should be quite clear that we have common intentions. We want to make improvements in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e853	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e858	I will first reply to the representative of Unneland: Yes, there are simple answers, and I am convinced that the simple answer here is to remove these four letters. But at the same time, things have to be connected, and that's a reason why the last Minister of Justice put this criminal law committee down and asked them to look in particular at the chapters on sexual offences. I fully share with the Minister of Justice assessments relating to this issue. I should have changed these letters today. To the left: I can see people in eyes after what we do today, because it's a point in itself to see this in context. It's also interesting to see that the three lawyers who are in the hall don't quite agree on the kiss in this. It shows that as long as there are lawyers, there is something to discuss. Initially, I would have liked to be directly in favour of a change, but I believe that changing the penal code without proper processing is unwise, especially in this field, where we know that other parts of this law have been discussed. There are also examples that there is no agreement between lawyers on whether sex without consent is legal. There are discussions about it. All of this is what we expect to be illuminated by this work. So to reassure everyone, the right is quite clear that we believe this is an incursion. We're convinced that this should change, but we want to see this in a context, and we want to get this in place. Then it is up to the government to submit proposals for changes to the criminal law. As to why it says ‘should’, it is because it is a language that fits into this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e871	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e888	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e895	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good consideration of this proposal for a representative, tabled by representatives of the Progress Party. The proposal deals with the general armament of the police. The Committee notes that the proposers believe that the development of the crime scene, particularly in the major cities, has given fresh impetus to the issue of general police armaments. As the proposers see it, the police need such a tool as general armaments are, on the one hand, in order to solve their social mission and, on the other, to ensure their own security. The Committee notes that the proposers believe that the difference in strength may be distorted in the favour of criminals, all the time when the group is increasingly armed, while there is no general weaponry in the police, and that the same imbalance results in a lower degree of ability to ensure its own security. The proposers also point out that in extending this, there may be concerns about the recruitment of the police. Against this background, the proposers ask the government to make proposals for changes to the police law to ensure general weapons in the police. I now want to explain to the Labour Party and the Central Party's views on the matter. Several serious incidents have also recently led to a debate on the use of power by the police. There have been no thorough, comprehensive assessments relating to police use of power since 2017. Therefore, there is a need for an upgraded knowledge base that looks both at the experience from periods of temporary armament and point-arming and at police experience with the use of electroscopic weapons. As we see it, the debate on the use of force by the police links with a bigger question about what police we as a society want. The police mission is linked to vulnerable groups and individuals with mental health disorders, children under the care of children and people with drug problems, and this is a major part of the daily lives of policemen in urban and rural areas. A question about the power available to the police is about the threat scene, the crime scene and the social development we want, and the preservation of people's trust in the police. The Council of State has therefore taken the initiative of setting up a selection to look at the police's use of powers. This sample shall help to update professional assessments of the use of coercive agents in the police toolbox. We support this initiative. We look forward to the work of the sample being presented during 2022 and to an open debate based on an upgraded knowledge base. The Labour Party and the Centre will not support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e912	I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important topic. It is also the case that an important theme deserves careful and good judgment. As the social debate has shown and the proposers have pointed out, we have had several events, and we have had situations in society that in a way prepare the basis for a discussion related to arms. The job that was done in 2017, with its conclusions, is also an important starting point. In fact, police in Norway have a rather unique position in terms of confidence in the population and how we, as citizens, experience the police daily, and there are some values related to what it is important to include in the assessment. There is no doubt that developments in society, including in Norway, call for discussion of police opportunities to be prepared for the situations that had to arise at all times. As the case we have to deal with today shows, and as the case rapporteur also took up, it is made a handle that is essential to have included in a comprehensive assessment of the police's powers in the performance of their job. It is therefore also important to refer to this sample, which could ensure that professional evaluations are updated using coercive measures in the police toolbox. That is also the background to the majority's agreement to the recommendation in the case. It may be easy in heated discussions related to individual matters to answer that had been armed, the situation had changed. This may well be the case in individual cases, but it is nevertheless important that it be assessed on the basis of an overall basis — both of the role of the police in everyday life and of the police we want as a society. That is why both I and the Centre are looking forward to the work of the sample, which I think will provide a good and renewed knowledge base for assessments to be made in connection with armaments for police in Norway. The debate will certainly continue in society, and it is an important debate, but it is important that it is about more than the actual armaments – that it is also about the police as a tool for society, and not least about the trust in the police and their exercise of their role, which is quite unique in the international context. It's in itself a value to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e925	You can ask what these countries have in common: Iceland, Nauru and Norway. Iceland we know about. We should know Norway. Nauru is a small island in the Pacific. What these countries have in common is that they are the only countries in the world that do not have a armed police force. So there's some microstates in the Pacific, that's Norway, and that's Iceland. It says a little about the need and the assessments that other countries have made, which Norway has not dared to make, but which are absolutely necessary. The police themselves call for this to be done, but every time the Progress Party takes the matter up in Stortinget, it is felt that it is rejected by the other parties. I thought we'd come a little further, and that we could at least hear some other arguments than those we've heard for decades. These are the same arguments that were raised against an armed police force in the 1980s, the 1990s and the 2000s, which are repeated today. It shows me that the other parties in this room have not taken on board the significant changes that have taken place around us in terms of the threat situation, the development of more rawness, criminal acts and individual events – which have been discussed by others – such as. on Kongsberg and the incident at Bislett only a short time ago. These are examples of events that show that the police lack power there and then when acute situations happen, and then counts every second. Every second is important to safeguard the self-security of each politician and policeman, but also to exercise the social protection that the police must and must do on behalf of all of us. That's what gets challenged when you don't have the weapon available on your hip. That is why the Progress Party, almost every year and in every single big session, has made proposals for the armed use of the police. We worked for it while we were in government. We tried to go with the other parties that were the parliamentary majority then, and we got in place at least point-arming and simpler of-and-arming based on threat assessments. But that's not enough. Because even if it can be claimed that when the threat situation is there, weapons are considered to be in place, and there is also a special need to use them, there are different rules that apply at different times, and this also makes the police a bit of a challenge, by constantly taking off and on this weapon. The fact that these kinds of assessments are being carried out continuously — that the Police Directorate assesses the need for the introduction of general weapons temporarily to be there — shows the need for this. Then it's just as okay to take the step out and get the police equipped with the tools the police need to take care of the security of most people. Then, like other Scandinavian countries, we must ensure that the police are armed. I hear the arguments. When it is said that the Norwegian police are going to have a civil character and that it is going to be a little military-like if we are going to arm the police, is it believed that Sweden has a non-civil police force that is more militaristic? Do you think Denmark has the same thing? The fact that our neighbouring countries, who have experienced the situation that we are also seeing in Norway now, have put in place a general armament of their police, should suggest that even now we did this evaluation properly – do not push the problem ahead of us again, but make sure that the police get the equipment they need, the tools they need, to take care of their own security and the security of most people. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e938	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e943	I'm not quite familiar with the committee chairman's description of the debate – that these are the same arguments that go back and forth, etc. It seems that he has not read the position and the committee comments. What I see is a movement in multiple parts. The fact that the government is now putting down a sample – which any government is happy to do – to look at the whole case complex is itself a signal. That my party, Right, has taken up the issue, and has suggested, more use of weapons through what we call territorial weapons, to give the police a greater basis for having arms in parts of the country, is an expression of a movement. I have allowed myself to do that, even though we have a national meeting decision in the Right that we are opposed to general armaments. So there's absolute movement in this case. We have put forward a proposal, which I would like to address, where it says: ‘The government is asked to provide an up-to-date knowledge base on the societal, police and security implications of the possible general armaments of the police.’ It probably sounds exactly the same as the government plans to do, but for us, it's important to realize that this has to be complete, and that we see all the parts of it. Then we get to the discussions that Per-Willy Amundsen is obviously tired of, that is, how a general weapon of the police affects society, how it affects the public's view of the police. I'm proud that we have a police officer who delivers as well, with the same weapons as one on Nauru and Iceland. Norway is not so much like those countries, but the police have made it clear. We have great respect for the police in Norway; they do a good job. The police themselves are concerned with two things: one is that we should not make decisions like this based on single events. The second is that the police themselves have said that there is a need for an up-to-date knowledge base. It's been over five years since the NOU was completed. So I feel that the committee is pretty close to what the police have said, but I note that the police commissioner has now turned around and is too armed. The Joint Police Association is also that. I look forward to a better knowledge base, as the Council of State has promised us. Then we'll have to take the debate further, but then preferably without all of the strawmen that the chairman of the committee included in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e959	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e964	Norwegian society has traditionally had a police force of civil character, in sharp contrast to states where the police have a more military appearance. We must be happy and proud of that. I notice that the representative from the Progress Party strongly argues that very few countries do, but that is not an argument in itself. The fact that few countries do so suggests that we may be doing something right, from which other countries could draw inspiration. The police are solving most of their cases without the use of weapons. We do not want more use of weapons on the hip of the police to get the police to solve problems that they would otherwise have solved without weapons, to solve them with weapons. That we do not have a general weapon in Norway is important to build trust and ensure that situations are resolved with the lowest possible use of power. The use of force by the police must have been accepted by people, and power must be available where absolutely necessary. So SV will not support the proposals of the Progress Party, as we believe that today's system, where the police have one-handed weapons and two-handed weapons locked down in vehicles, is a good solution. This is a model where patrolling police are unarmed in the vast majority of missions and at the same time have a quick access to weapons when needed. The point weapon has a background in information on threats or concrete vulnerability and should therefore be limited in time until the threat is controlled or stopped. The Swedish Armed Forces Committee recommended in 2017 not to introduce a general armament of the Norwegian police. I record that the Minister of Justice and Security has put down a sample to look at the police's use of power more generally and that they will deliver their conclusion during the year. We welcome an up-to-date knowledge base, but will nevertheless stress that there are strong reasons for extending the police’s weapons mandate. Such an extension must be justified in principle and in the light of threat and vulnerability assessments. This debate is about more than what tools the police should have access to. It's about the police and the social development we as a society want.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e977	The debate on the general armament of the police is a debate that periodically flares up in our society. Norway is one of the few countries in the world that do not have the general armaments of the police, and we should be proud of that. The Norwegian police have traditionally had a civil character, focusing on the rights of the population and on fundamental values such as legitimacy and trust, rather than on a more military mark that we can see in other countries. This is one of the ten basic principles of the Norwegian police. It is faith-building and, if necessary, dispel fear of the police as administrators of power in society. In NOW 2017:9, the Committee of Armed Forces highlighted this in particular as important values that should be retained through, inter alia. a restrictive approach to weapons, while ensuring society a police force capable of carrying out its social mission and protecting itself and the public. The Norwegian police are doing an incredibly good job of reaching out and strengthening the relationship with the rest of the population. For this to work, police access to any weapons must appear legitimate in the population. The red impression is that the current system of a two-handed weapon locked down in the vehicle is a good one. This solution ensures that the police have access to weapons if necessary, but at the same time ensures that they preserve the civil character that the Norwegian police have had and should continue to have. The Swedish police are armed, and unlike Nauru, which was brought forward by the representative Amundsen, we might be able to compare ourselves more with Sweden. Swedish police officers unload five times as often as Norwegian police officers and hurt four times as many of their own citizens as the police in Norway do. It's an incredibly high price for society to pay for a weapon we've done without, with a few exceptions, in the modern history of our entire society. The state has allowed the police to use power against their own citizens. It's part of our social contract. The trust in this contract must therefore be managed with extreme care, and the obligation on our policemen to carry weapons at the risk it presents is something that should weigh heavily in this debate. Knowing that armed police are shooting and hitting more often than unarmed police, another burden is imposed on an already demanding profession. It is not the weapons that must live on with responsibility and consequences – that is what our policemen do. Red believes that the solution to less violence in society lies not in more weapons but in prevention, in access to non-lethal means of power in situations where it is necessary and required, and not least in how Norwegian society treats and cares for mentally ill people. The trend in society is quite clear. We've had more mentally ill people outside the institutions than before, which has given us very serious and cruel episodes. Three people were shot and killed by the police in 2019 and 2020, and all three were mentally ill. It is therefore important in the future, I believe, and Red, primarily to strengthen the mental health service. It therefore supports the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e994	The left will not support the proposal for a general armament of the police, in line with our good colleagues in Red and SV. Norway, as many people have been in today, has a tradition of a more civil manifestation in our police force than perhaps other states have – and the 2017 Arms Committee has also given the most importance to the reason why they did not support a general weapon. We believe that we should continue to put ourselves on the line that was added in 2017. The current system helps to support trust and ensure that situations arise with the least possible use of power. It's important for the Left. Today, we can see that the numbers of people killed by the police in shooting episodes are low – eight since 2005. Professor of Police College Johannes Knutson says that increased availability of weapons increases their use. If we look at our neighbouring country Sweden, which several others have been in this room, we see that their police are armed, and that the Swedish police shoot five times as often as Norwegian and hurt four times as many. This is taken into account with population differences. There are numbers that make the Left quite skeptical that we're going to put ourselves on a Swedish line in this case. One can also look at the actual figures for crime, which have still gone down in recent years, as figures from the SSB from 2019 show. Both the number of injuries in the police and the number of serious cases have gone down since the beginning of the 2000s. That's good, and it also shows that Norwegian police are doing an incredibly good job under the armaments system we have today. They have quick access to weapons, as several other speakers have spoken, as needed. The left believes that today's system is therefore working well as it is now, but we look forward, of course, to the knowledge we're going to get from the government later this year in this field. The task of the police is to protect the citizens of a society from criminals. Increased access to weapons will not necessarily help with this, but may make it more difficult. For example: Sweden has been investigating the cases of people who have been shot and killed after an increase in police shooting in the last decade. The increase was not due to conflicts with gangs that have increased access to firearms. What they found out is that many of the shooting episodes have been against people with serious mental health problems or in connection with alcohol and other drugs. An example is a 20-year-old man with Down's syndrome and autism who was shot and killed by the police in Sweden in 2018. He had a toy gun. Also in Norway, there are often people with psychological problems who become victims, like Morten Michelsen, who were shot and killed by the police in the apartment's Christmas 2020. He had recently been written out of psychiatric clinic and deleted with drug problems. We therefore believe – like our good colleagues in Red – that what we need to look at here is how we can rust up our mental health system, so that we do not get into these kinds of problems in the future. Because of this, we can see that even though the arguments of the Progress Party are based on the fact that the police will have more resources to deal with armed criminals, this may harm those who labor the most in our society: mentally ill and people with drug problems. That is why we do not support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1014	The government has set up a selection to assess the use of power by the police because of the social developments we have seen in recent years, and that this is a recurring discussion, and that the security situation has changed. I'll come back a little bit later. At present, the government's clear position is that we believe that today's forward-looking storage system is correct. In Norway, we can be proud that we have a trust-based society and a unarmed police force, and we can be proud of the tradition we have of a civilized police force with high public confidence. Then I understand that the ongoing discussion of general arms, which is regularly in society, engages very many. In recent years, we have seen changes in the threat picture. We see that the police have access to new means of power. Today's law enforcement force is equipped with several different forms of physical power. Guns are stored forward in the vehicle, while handcuffs, pepper spray, telescopic baton are worn in the uniform belt. Point-to-point weapons have already been introduced at Oslo airport and Bergen airport, Flesland, and electroscopic weapons are also to be phased into the Norwegian police force. There have been pilot projects in several police districts, and eventually it will be rolled out in all police districts. So there's been a good deal in this area in the last few years. Issues related to police and power, and in particular the use of weapons, concern the practical challenges faced by the police in meeting the population, but also affect social values and principles, which have been addressed by many, and therefore need to be addressed in depth. The government is concerned with issues related to the police's use of force, and not only with the weapons of fire, but also with the rest of the force that the police have. It must be based on an up-to-date knowledge base and a careful review of issues related to police use of power. That is why I have set up an expert committee to provide us with up-to-date professional assessments relating to the use of power by the police. In addition to providing an up-to-date knowledge base, the mandate of the committee is to identify relevant issues related to the police framework for drug use, to describe alternative models, to assess how the police use power against children and vulnerable groups — it is very important to take an extra look at them — and to assess changes in police access to powers, such as: by receiving electroscopic weapons, affects the need for other weapons. The pyramid of power after which the police rank their means of power shall be the basis of the work. So it's important for the government that this question isn't just about what's best for the police themselves, but it's also about what's best for society as a whole. The committee will deliver its report during the year, and it will provide us with a solid and up-to-date knowledge base for discussion and to look at issues related to police use of power. At this stage, therefore, it is not up to the government to support the proposal for a representative to introduce general police armaments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1031	No one has asked for the word in reply. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1038	As several representatives have been involved, Norwegian society is largely influenced by trust – trust between people and not least between people and authorities. It's a great common value for our society. With its tasks, the police are definitely an important and visible authority representative, and the police have a high level of confidence in the population. About 80 pst. has high or very high trust. That's good, that's important, and that's something we can be proud of, as many people have said. We see in these times how important trust in society is. It could be the glue itself that holds things together when it cleans up. It has been quite a consensus for a long time that we in Norway should have a police force of civil character. By that I mean a uniformed set, but which nevertheless appears open and available. An important part of this has been that the police are unarmed. It has underlined the civil character. I'm thinking of building up the high trust that Norwegian police have today. That doesn't mean things can't change over time. However, we should be held back by changing such a fundamental and well-thought-out principle in Norway as an unarmed police force is. I totally agree that other countries have armed their police forces, not an independent argument that Norway should do it. It is an overall assessment of societal developments, the image of crime and threats and the own need of security of police officers that must be the basis for changing the fundamental principle, but at that time the main focus should always be on the prevention of changes in that image. Therefore, it makes sense that the Council of State has seen down a selection of broad and good professional representations to assess the police's use of and access to power. We need broad professional assessments of the use of the coercive agents available to the police. We look forward to the work from the selection, which I expect will provide us with a good, up-to-date knowledge base and a good starting point for the important assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1051	At least in many ways, what should be a little thoughtful is that in a sentence where we are discussing the armament of the police, where we know that we have a society based on a great deal of trust, and where the role of the police in caring for and having that trust, has also been about the civil character, it is not certain that the wisest thing to do is to paralyze the debate unnecessarily by almost caricing the Norwegian police compared to the police of other countries who have weapons. I do not think that either brings about an increase in the basis of knowledge in the debate or necessarily brings the debate on a large scale. It is at least my little reflection around the attempts of the Progress Party to tabloidize the weapons of the police. But, of course, it is important to take seriously what is pointed out by both the Police Joint Union, the police leaders and others in the debate on arms. It is precisely then that the sample that the Council of State has set down and that will provide a knowledge base – a better and up-to-date knowledge base – is a better starting point for discussing the arms of the police and the various types of power that the police possess and that need to be seen in a context. It takes the Center Party seriously. It is difficult not to give the subject of ‘Near Police’ any reflections related to the role of the police in society and, to a large extent, weapons. Because it is obvious that the process that the country has been through in terms of police reform has not only had beneficial effects on the ability of the police to do a job in society, for example. related to prevention, e.g. related to a larger presence, which easily goes into the discussion on arms – at least from someone’s point of view. That being said, things are related. It is important that there is a good knowledge base on which decisions and assessments are based. Then it is wise to do as the Council of State has done, namely to set up a wide-ranging selection that will provide a good basis of knowledge for discussion related to arms at large in the case of the police in Norway and the continuation of the confidence of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1062	It is difficult to understand what the previous speaker really meant when he said that the Progress Party is tabling the police. We don't, of course not. But it is clear that if we are going to discuss events and developments that have happened, we are not going beyond things that have set the agenda in Norway and that show that the police lack tools to deal with the toughest and toughest situations. It's also about trust. It is about trust that the police can take care of our security, the security of our citizens, even in situations where weapons have to be used. What is really being asked when you are afraid of this concept of military-like police, which several used again, is that the police are more likely to put their own lives and health at risk when not to release shots. Then Red and Left refer to statistics in Sweden. Well, if you think it's relevant to compare Norway and Sweden when summarising crime, it at least shows a creative use of statistics, to say the least. If there is something at least the Progress Party sought as long as we were in government, it was to avoid getting Swedish states. Sweden has a completely different situation than we do in Norway, and the fact that more shots are released in Sweden than in Norway should not surprise anyone. So there's a completely crazy bad use of statistics. I really don't understand that you're going into that kind of experiment at all. It's called mental illness. Yes, it is a problem that you have gone too far towards one ditch by not controlling people who are potentially dangerous to themselves and people around you. It has also been pointed out by the police, but there is another part of the legislation that Stortinget has unfortunately not shown the willingness to make changes, namely the increased use of mandatory mental health protection. It was voted down here in Stortinget just a few weeks ago. It was a proposal from the Progress Party. Overall, I understand that the Right is a little hairy because we challenge them a little that they have not done enough with us to put in more weaponry by the police. It's got to be that way. The party of progress has been on this matter over time. We are going to re-examine the proposal. It's great that you're looking for more knowledge, but we already have that knowledge. The police in Norway should be armed. They should be given weapons on their hips to take care of their own safety and not least to protect society and the citizens of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1081	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1099	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1106	The size has been given Document 3:8 for 2020–2021, ‘The Court of Auditors’s investigation into reasons for lengthy proceedings in the appeal and appeal proceedings in NAV and the Social Security Court’. The aim of the audit has been to examine the extent to which the Employment and Welfare Act and the Social Security Court address complaints and appeals in a targeted manner and in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Stortinge. The study covers mainly the period 2014 to 2019, but data have also been collected for parts of 2020 to illustrate the impact of the coronary apathy on the resolution of the case and the time-limits of the appeal and appeal proceedings. Nav handles about four million applications for financial benefits annually. If a user is denied an application or disagrees with the Nav decision, the user may complain. The appeal is first dealt with by the Nav body which took the original decision, also called the decision-making body. In 2019, the decision-making body dealt with about 50 000 complaints. If the decision-making body maintains the original decision, the case shall be referred to the Nav Board of Appeal for review. In 2019, the Board of Appeal dealt with about 37 000 complaints. If the original decision is also maintained after consideration by the Nav Board of Appeal, the user may appeal to the Social Security Court. In 2019, the Social Security Court dealt with 3 800 Nav appeals. On two points, the Riksrevision considers that the level of criticism is serious: The case-handling times in the complaint and appeal chains in Nav and the Social Security Court are too long, and have been longer than that. Long processing time leads to greater user burden and personal impact and to related people who depend on the income of users. Long procedural periods also lead to users who are entitled to a benefit or service but who have been refused to leave without the necessary assistance over a longer period of time than is necessary. In matters relating to disability benefits, redundancy benefits and other health-related benefits, the outcome will often have a very important welfare impact on the user. The fact that these users experience a particularly long procedure period is serious, given the increased burden and the perception of waiting time. On the following points, the Riksrevision considers the level of criticism to be critical: Nav and the Social Security Court have not been able over time to strengthen the capacity of the necessary medical competence. This has contributed to the need for users who complain or complain about health-related benefits issues to wait a very long time to get a response on their case. There is little attention to the total waiting time of the user in complaints and appeals. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not ensured that the priorities of the various bodies in the complaint and appeal axes are sufficiently integrated. This includes, among other things: helped to ensure that the right of access to justice has become more and more urgent in the complaint and appeal axes chain over time and that the waiting time for users waiting for answers in their appeal proceedings has increased. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has not over time had sufficient attention to remedying weaknesses in the review procedures of the decision-making bodies. Mechanisms to ensure good quality of anchor axle treatment in both the Nav and the Social Security Court are in place to a small extent. This has hampered adequate quality development in the appeals procedure. Finally, it is noted that the available tools for resolving disagreements about the understanding of the law between Nav and the Social Security Court are being used to a small extent. Increased use of these instruments will facilitate a comprehensive and time-saving review of complaints and appeals. The Committee endorses the findings and criticisms of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office makes a number of recommendations to the Ministry, including: that in the appeal and appeal cases, more attention is given to the total waiting time of users before they receive a reply, including assessing the time limits which must apply in the appeal and appeal cases chain, and ensuring that there is a reduction in the stock of untreated complaints and appeals. It is also recommended that, in the future, Nav and the Social Security Court have sufficient access to social-medical skills and that further efforts be made to ensure a correct and consistent understanding of the law in Nav and Social Security. I would also like to point out that former Councillor Røe Isaksen stated that no comprehensive review of the complaint and appeal system has been carried out since the establishment of the Social Security Court and Social Security in 1966. The Committee meets the alerted review of the appeal and appeal system in Nav and the Social Security Court. Finally, as the rapporteur-general, I would like to thank the National Audit Office for the study and the Committee for the good cooperation in dealing with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1160	The length of the appeal and appeal proceedings in Nav and the Social Security Court is too long. A long procedure period is an impression for the users and families, related and all those who depend on their income. It also allows users who are entitled to a social benefit or a service to walk without the assistance they need from the public, beyond what is necessary. This expectation is particularly a burden and a feeling for those with problems of disability, redundancy and other health-related benefits. The National Audit Service describes this as serious, which we are pleased that an overall committee joins. It is important for legal certainty that complaints are dealt with within a reasonable time, in a good and reliable manner. We're going to have a strong safety net for those who need it, whether it's every day or in a shorter or longer period of life. The National Audit Office has examined the extent to which the Employment and Welfare Act and the Social Security Court deal with complaints and appeals in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting and in a targeted way. The period one has seen is 2014–2019, but it is also, as the case-rapporteur mentioned, including data from 2020 to look up the impact on the pandemic. The results show a significant potential for improvement. The National Audit Service describes it as critical that Nav and the Social Security Court have not been able to strengthen the capacity of social security competence so that they can more effectively take away those who are waiting. There is also insufficient attention in the system to the overall waiting time of the complainant, and the coronary apathy has increased further. It is therefore very good that an overall committee takes note of the recommendations which the Riksrevision is clear to the Ministry: enhance the socio-medical competence of the Nav and Social Security Court; raise awareness of the total waiting time of users and the deadlines for: ensuring the quality of the handling of complaints and appeals; ensure a uniform and clear understanding of the law of Nav and Social Security; ensure overall priorities in the complaint and appeal case chain, and not least reduce the excessive lag in untreated appeals and appeals pending against the parties concerned; While we have to deal with this, we see that there are some unnecessary complaints that come into the system. That is why it is important to prevent good investigations from the outset, and to help people understand the decisions they are making, and the background for them, early on. More responsibility and trust should lie with the first line in Nav. It would make Nav more accessible, not least for the people they're for. Then we notice that the former Council of State indicates that many of the measures that emerge are already known, that the issues are known, and that some measures have been taken. From 2019 onwards, the Ministry has increased its attention to reducing the duration of treatment for complaints and appeals. As part of that work, better governance information has also been needed, and there is a background for the Ministry to give Nav the task of launching a larger effort to improve the statistical base. The long-term challenge for complaints and anchors has been raised in the management dialogue with the Social Security Court, as far as we have been informed about, and there have also been increases in appropriations and arrangements for improving the efficiency of operations. The aftermath of the Nav and EEA cases has also made some learning points visible and the need to strengthen the professional and coordinating role of Nav. There is an overall committee which is behind the Riksrevision and which meets the alerted review of the complaint and appeal system in Nav and the Social Security Court. It's a work right there looks forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1195	First I want to want Marte Mjøs Persen to close with new tasks. There was demanding where she was, and there was probably no less demanding here, so close to. Then I would like to thank the case-speaker and the Committee for good cooperation, and I would like to thank the National Auditor for this report. We've been dealing with complaints in Nav for a long time. In 1995, the Riksrevision produced a report on the length of time spent in the Social Security Court. This time the Riksrevision has told us why it takes a long time to deal with complaints across Nav and the Social Security Court. This is how it has been shown that there has been no holistic review in this system since the Social Security Court was established in 1966. It will now be taken care of. The National Audit Office finds that there are too few mechanisms to ensure good quality in both Nav and Social Security. These were the things we saw when we dealt with the social security scandal. Then we pointed out that Nav had to have guidelines to assess whether the decisions of the Social Security Court have taken a position on a legal issue, and distinguish them from decisions that primarily involve the assessment of facts. The Riksrevision's recommendation in this report is to ensure sufficient quality development in the complaint and appeal chain in the future. A distinction between legal issues and the assessment of facts is fundamental to quality. It was important that the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, took seriously the recommendation of the Riksrevision. He put down a selection to go through the entire complaint and appeal system in Nav and Social Security. The new government is following this up. I would like to pay particular attention to the advice from the National Audit Office to ensure a right and unanimous understanding of the law in Nav and the Social Security Court. The report shows that the cases are not well dealt with by the decision-making body, so that the user is not able to understand his or her decisions. This is serious for people who depend on Nav's legal security. This creates more complaints than is needed. For this reason, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee says that Nav's principal line must be strengthened, and that Nav's future governance should be based on trust in the competences of those who make such decisions. People are supposed to meet a local hub that takes care of legal certainty and the whole human being. I look forward to following this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1210	Then the next speaker is Marte Mjøs Persen. The Council of State has been in charge of these matters for a good 22 hours, so it's probably hard to get into it, but we're glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1215	Thank you for the welcome to Stortinget! This is an important matter. The National Audit Office has examined the extent to which Nav and the Social Security Court are dealing with complaints and appeals in a targeted manner and in line with the Storting decision and assumptions. The National Audit Office points out first and foremost that the time period for handling complaints and appeals is very long, and that they have lasted longer. In particular, the Social Security Court has increased the length of proceedings. Rapid examination of applications and proper decisions in the labour and welfare kit play a major role in the welfare of individuals. The government wants a strong safety net with welfare services for those applying for benefits from Nav. A good system for dealing with complaints and appeals contributes to this. I agree with the Committee that it is important to improve the ability of the Nav decision-making body to investigate matters in order to ensure the correctness of the decisions. In order to meet the Riksrevision’s learning points, among others: actions to strengthen the professional and coordinating role of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. Among other things, the processes for developing circulars and strengthening the legal competences of the establishment have been prioritised and improved. One of the government's important projects is trust reform in the public sector. The reform is about giving employees time and trust in providing users with better services, and it should be closely coordinated with user organisations, trustees and the management of all major public enterprises. In the management of labour and welfare, one of the key premises of the reform is that the Nav offices and the first-line staff should have more room for action to use their professional skills and competences in the work. The government has strengthened the operating budget of the State of Labour and Welfare in 2022 in order to improve its capacity to deal with areas under pressure or with major development needs. The National Audit Office notes that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has increased attention to the handling of complaints and appeals in the management. In the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, the Ministry has called for the provision of more and better statistics and management information on complaint handling in the Working and Welfare Session. The Ministry has also requested Nav and the Social Security Court to have better cooperation and dialogue on, among other things. predictions of the appeal entrance to the Social Security Court. Better regulatory understanding processes have also come into place. I look forward to the outcome of the comprehensive review of the complaint and appeal system in Nav and Social Security. The committee shall deliver its opinion on 15 December of this year. The government is concerned that the user and legal security perspective is preserved in the work of the selection. The selection has therefore been asked to examine the mechanisms to ensure good quality in the handling of appeals and appeals. The committee has also been asked to assess the instruments of the Employment and Welfare Act and the Social Security Court in order to clarify any disagreements on legal understanding raised by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1232	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1237	I would also like to warmly welcome the new Council of State for the work it has done. There is no simple job we are responsible for in this area. This is a very important audit report, and a lot of issues are related to disability benefits and redundancy benefits. For redundancy payments alone, more than 130 000 people are in that system. As regards the appeal decisions, the period for 2019 is now 19.5 months. We can't have it like that. The number of appeals in the Social Security Court has doubled in a short time, so we can't have it. It is then gratifying that a joint committee supports the Riksrevision's findings and criticism and says it is critical. It is fully supported by the Committee. The practice of handling matters is that there is a reduced sample to look at it, and we are very pleased about that. It is important to have a guarantee of legal certainty, to have confidence in the stability of the system, but it is a problem that Nav provides both services and has formal responsibility for complaint and appeal proceedings. It's a problem. So it's good that we have a sample, but it's essential that complaints and appeals are objectivity and distance to Nav. Trust requires independence from Nav. It's a fact that we almost don't have social security issues in the ordinary judicial system. There is concern about the development of justice and the safeguarding of legal certainty, when we almost do not have social security in this ordinary legal system. There are an estimated 50–60 cases per year. It's a challenge. But before we get a complaint, before we get a case, it's an ordinary procedure, and that's what the committee has written unanimously on how to be in the future, that there has to be a change here because it's not done well enough in the decision-making bodies. Users have not sufficiently understood their own decision. You get a number of unnecessary complaints, and you get too many complaints. Therefore, the Committee states that «the management of Nav shall be based on trust in the competence of its employees». In other words, employees must be trusted, and more powers must be delegated to the first line, i.e. to the local Nav office. Then my point is: there have been so many national audit reports over time, so many unanimous committee positions, so many unanimous debates that would indicate that there was a change here. There has not been any change despite the fact that a good job has been done in all instances. I therefore appeal to the Council of State to really address this and follow up a unanimous committee. It is not a decision, but it is an almost unanimous committee, with the exception of the Left, which is asking for what I have now said.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1252	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1269	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1276	In February 2020, unemployment in Norway was 2.7 p.m. Two months later, it had risen to 14.6 p.m., the highest in modern times, and Nav received more applications for daily allowances during the first two weeks after the closure on 12 March than they usually do in a whole year. It is a unanimous committee of control and constitution that is behind the situation in this matter. The issue deals with how the working and well-being movement managed the work on appropriations under the coronary apathy, while Norway introduced the strictest and most intrusive measures in peacetime to reduce the infection. The government quickly adopted more temporary measures to secure the income of people and to reduce employers’ expenditure on leave, sick leave and child care. The objective of the audit has been to examine whether the Employment and Welfare Act has implemented the financial measures adopted by the Storting in order to limit the adverse effects of the pandemic. Furthermore, there has been an objective to investigate whether the establishment has established sufficient control to prevent mispayments and to identify possible abuses of them. The survey covers the period March 2020 and the year 2020. The report has two main findings: Nav has largely complied with Storting’s assumptions about the rapid implementation of financial measures in response to the coronary apathy. The National Audit Office also notes that Nav has not yet established sufficient procedures to prevent mispayments and to detect possible misuse of corona-related benefits. Now it must also be said that this audit was done almost two years ago, or back in time, so it may well be that good practice has been put in place in retrospect. The report shows us that Nav has largely complied with the Storting's assumptions about the rapid implementation of the financial measures in response to the coronary apathy. Most of the financial measures were put in place quickly. A long period of time for applications for daily allowances was, of course, critical for many recipients, but advances in daily subsistence allowances were ensured. We know that compensation for perms was what took the longest time to get in place. Mechanical and systematic control of the various systems in the building has been shown not to speak optimally to each other, and this was revealed when the payments were to be checked. So, as I said instead, March 2020 is now two years back in time, and we are celebrating a doubtful anniversary on Saturday. I think I can say that from Stortinget's side we have clear expectations that the systems are talking better today than they were two years ago, when we had to close Norway. In conclusion, I would like to thank the National Audit Office for their investigation and the Nav staff for having turned around in a difficult situation, as well as the Committee for a good cooperation in dealing with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1302	In a couple of weeks in 2020, we started to have the lowest leave of ten years to record high leave. The Coronapandemic put the population, jobs and businesses in a situation without a modern counterpart. The financial measures to ensure the income of the population and to reduce employers’ expenditures on permitting, sick leave and child care should enter into force immediately, so that payments could be made as soon as the technical solutions allowed. I myself sat in the finance committee at that time and remember how quickly one had to work, and not least what a fantastic effort was made by the agencies, departments and agencies to get it quickly in place. The aid schemes should be targeted and temporary and should be paid as soon as possible. During the period from March 2020 and out of the year, Nav paid less than 40 billion dollars. kr to job seekers in the form of daily allowances, advances on daily allowances, compensation for the salaries of perms and compensation schemes for freelancers and self-employed persons. The high number of applicants and the introduction of new performances and ICT systems at the same time resulted in high labour pressure on Nav in the spring of 2020. The review by the National Audit Office of compliance with the decisions of the Storting and the assumptions of the financial measures put in place here is important. The review has been aimed at examining whether there has been sufficient control to prevent mispayments and to detect abuse of benefits. The audit shall apply as known for the financial year 2020. The survey shows that financial measures were mainly put in place quickly when the closure of the country threatened the social security of people. It also shows that applicants for daily allowances have unfortunately had to wait disproportionately for a long time and that the time spent dealing with them became critical for many recipients. At that time, the system of advance payments was important and ensured a high level of living in a demanding situation. However, for a long time it took to make the pay compensation available to those who were on leave. A Joint Committee has also noted that Nav had not established sufficient controls to prevent and detect malpayments and abuses of the arrangements. Therefore, the Stortinget Ministry recommends that the recommendations of the Riksrevision be followed up on better controls — the establishment and implementation of better controls — and that Nav collect what has been outstanding advances on daily allowances. The right again looks forward to work and further cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1321	I guess there's no public office that got as unwittingly changed its working day as Nav at the Coronapandemy. This led to extreme work pressure. I would like to stress that when the Committee says it praises the 'name of effective implementation of the arrangements', I believe that is what should remain from the debate today on this issue. We commend Nav for the amazing effort they have made. Some schemes were automated in the processing of applications. Others had to be handled manually. It was a huge problem one standing opposite. I join those who praise the job that has been done. In the absence of adequate control and detection of abuse, a question may arise as to the extent to which it was possible in the situation in which it occurred. I think there are a few instances that can't have anything to point to here, but I think that's less important in relation to the amazing job that's been done. The representative Stokkebø stated that Nav must be able to collect the outstanding advances for daily allowances, and I would like to stress that. We went into that scheme, we saw the weaknesses of it, but when one made an extra effort to do a job daily in the difficult economic situation one was in, one had to be aware that that money was to be refunded. There must be no doubt that you have a right, and you have an obligation to follow it up. As legislator, and as the decision-maker for payments, the budget has a great responsibility for making it as simple as possible. There might be something that we need to have with us even more strongly, so that we can do well to deal with the dilemmas that arise, namely the dilemma between justice for those who need the money and the opportunity to do a good job for those who want to do the job. For the job is not done until it is done at the right time and in the right way and the money has come to the person concerned. That's why we have to see that whole chain in context. I will end by commending Nav for an effective implementation in the demanding situation we are facing. It's rare that Nav gets praise. They deserve that in this round, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1332	The coronary apathy was a heavy time for most. One point of light was that we saw a glimpse of a different hub than most of us already know. Instead of a regime of suspicion, parts of the department began to trust the applicants and rather give priority to getting vital help in time. The National Audit Service describes a Nav that had to throw established procedures and performance systems on the boat and in record time develop new ones. Nav realized that normal handling of daily allowances would never have escaped the enormous amount of applications. As a result, a network solution was put in place to automatically accept applications for advance payments. This was a success. The way from lost income to money into the account was as short as it had never been before. When I read the National Audit Office's report, I actually get a little lump in my throat. Imagine if it had been so easy and so easy to use! I notice that the rest of the Committee's members will now tighten up the control after payment. Now those who got one penny too much in the day money, are being hunted and shaken until the crown falls out. The Committee, with the exception of Red, has two recommendations for the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion: to detect errors in payments and to charge outstanding advances on daily payments. We should also learn from the reform of trust on the ground. How can we build on a hub that trusts people? How can we facilitate, speed up and improve procedures? In the case of people who just filled out a form online, are we really going to punish them as if a case handler were holding their hand and helping them fill out the right info? So what didn't work out so well. While the daily allowance went well, it was considerably worse for a lay-off to apply for compensation of pay. From Stortinget the scheme decided that Nav would start to process the applications, it went over four months. You can imagine that you qualify for compensation, but not for a day's pay. What would one have liked to wait four months until Nav started to grasp that type of application at all? Do we feel that they were all in the same boat in that dungeon? When the workers themselves applied for compensation for pay, the application was to be made through the same three manual mills as Nav has today. The applications from the companies, on the other hand, were given a split new fully automated and lightning-fast treatment. There is one last lesson we can take from Nav's good response in this matter. The National Audit Office mentions several locations of ancient computer systems and failed capacity. It clearly shows that the first line in Nav has to be strengthened so it's Monner, even when the pandemic loosens the grip. Then the resources must be directed to you instead of even more control measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1349	There is no doubt that the corona pandemic has been very demanding for society and that it has put the public and private sectors to great test. I'm glad we were able to reopen society in February. The tests on which society was put, hit, as we know, also Nav with great power. Throughout the pandemic, the establishment and the employees made a great and extraordinary effort. I am therefore pleased that the Control and Constitutional Committee commends Nav for the effective implementation of the arrangements to limit the adverse effects of the coronary apathy. Nav prioritised as known to get the schemes in place, so that the beneficiaries could quickly be paid their benefits. The need for rapid payments combined with a massive increase in the number of cases did not give priority to integrating adequate machine controls into ICT systems. In this critical situation, control measures could be difficult to implement in line with the standards applicable in a normal situation. However, although Nav had to deprioritise the control of error payments in such a situation, the control of fraud in relation to the corona measures was prioritised, among other things. in cooperation with the tax haven. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has given guidance in the Nav grant letter for 2022 that the agency will continue its systematic efforts to prevent and detect errors in payments. This applies both to the development of systems and to the development of a risk-based control regime. Furthermore, the establishment shall prevent, detect and follow up social security fraud. Risk analyses shall be carried out to identify areas particularly vulnerable to social security fraud. In 2022, the budget shall focus specifically on the quality and control and management of delays in the area of mispayment, including follow-up of fraud and mispayments related to the interim corona measures. It will also focus on refunds in the advance payment scheme for day-to-day payments. The Ministry will follow up on this in the management dialogue in 2022. Mispayments and abuse have also been an important part of the governance dialogue in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1364	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1369	It was the post of the representative from Red that made me choose to draw. I have to say, I think it's a little simplified representation of the Nav system that everything worked when the pandemic came, while nothing worked when it wasn't pandemic. That's not how Nav works. Nav is an important safety net in our society, where there's a lot of employees working every day to get the benefits they need. Most of us are in contact with the Nav system one or more times in the course of their lives – it may be for birth, retirement or child care. Then there's someone who needs Nav when things happen in life that are demanding -- losing a job, having to go on redundancy pay or getting out of business. There are good people working in the Nav system, and I think it's important to be said clearly from this pulpit. We have also discussed the matter that went on for a long time. This government has been very clear that you want to strengthen the first line, and that is also said in the setting that we discussed earlier. It is clear that much was also done under the pandemic that is not mentioned in this report, for example. that the employees of the municipality contributed to the apparatus with which the state employees worked in Nav. I want to moderate the somewhat simple presentation that I think it might be wise to moderate here from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1380	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1397	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1404	Today is a historic day, March 8. I want to start by congratulating all women on the day. Today, I am thinking especially of women living in war zones or fleeing. Back to this room there is also a historical document that we are discussing, namely the Harberg Committee's report, Chapter 9, on the involvement and control of the Stortinge's foreign and security policy. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and the Harberg Committee for a thorough report. Today, the Stortning Foundation clarifies the basis for long-term, open and democratic policies on what is going to be Norway's role in the world. I want to mention two reasons why I call it historical: there has been some uncertainty about the constitutional chain of command in these policy areas. What can it do on its own at any time, and how must the Greatness be involved? How can we ensure well-considered foreign and security policies that are both parliamentaryly anchored and at the same time are able to respond quickly to developments internationally? Here it is essential that the Storting clarify the driving rules, and we do. When we present the vote today, there is a great deal of consensus in the committee. This is uplifting, because it means that we can disagree on the content of the policy, and we will probably be, too, but we are essentially united on the democratic rules. In an increasingly polarized world order it delights me as elected people. I will mention some of the areas in which the Committee is unanimous. The Committee stresses that the government is obliged to consult the Storting before taking important decisions, not after. That is, even in cases where the government does not need the consent of the Storting, it is obliged to keep the Storting informed and consult the elected representatives. This shall be done by the government at a time when the consultation is effective, i.e. not after the decision has been taken or irreversible processes have been initiated. An important meeting place for consultation is the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, i.e. DUUFK. Here the government can discuss confidential information in matters that cannot be debated publicly. The Committee has agreed that DUUFK should not be abused, that it should be strictly practised. The only issues to be raised there are those that cannot be presented to the Storting in other ways. Something else would have been to put a lid on open democratic debate. The Committee also agrees that the National Audit Office may have access to the Dufk report of its meetings for as long as they are bound by the obligation of professional secrecy. So to what goes on in Norwegian participation in military operations abroad. There has been repeated controversy about the constitutional process and the possibility for the Grand Duchy to exercise control over the government, particularly in connection with Norway's participation in NATO's attacks in Libya. The Committee is committed to the democratic legitimacy of military operations abroad. Therefore, the Committee agrees with the Committee's assessments that it may be advisable for the government not only to consult the Storting before such an operation but also to ensure that the decision has a clear parliamentary base. The Committee's minority, from the Red and the SV, wants to make it clear that the government is promoting voting for the Storting, without standing in the way of the broad consensus on the general principle that I just mentioned. Any Norwegian participation in military operations outside the borders of the State is a serious decision. Proposals for decisions must be justified by the Trade Union Council of State in the form of a State Council speech. The Committee supports the need to design the lectures in a way that provides the Storting with a concrete basis for subsequent monitoring. The written statement shall include the basis of international law, the framework of our military power, whether we are involved in a war and whether it is in this case in defence of the country, as well as the purpose and duration of the operation. In other words, the Committee agrees that the government should not send Norwegian forces abroad without presenting a firm plan of mandate and clear framework. As stated by the Committee: ‘Without access to written and reasoned government decisions, the Storting cannot perform its control function.’ The document we are dealing with today is a clarification of the driving rules that the government at all times must follow. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation and express the importance of being as united about this position as we are. I will address the proposal on which Red is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1437	The representative Seher Aydar then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1442	With the war in Ukraine, Norway and Europe are facing the most demanding foreign and security policy situation in very many years. It underlines the importance and relevance of having a fundamental and general discussion of the involvement of the Storting in and control of Norwegian foreign and defence policy. The Constitution empowers the government to take decisions in foreign and security policy, which is the responsibility of the government. This prerogative has exceptions, and Storting's consent is required in a number of cases. Nevertheless, this is an important starting point, with the government's constitutional prerogatives, in order to understand the views of the Workers' Party in this matter. In foreign policy, it has been of great value that we work together across blocks and partition lines. It provides predictability and recognition in Norwegian foreign policy that is a strength for the country. In view of this, it is important that a government has good dialogue with the Stortinget. Although it is the government's prerogative, there is nothing wrong with involving and consulting the Stortinget. It's doing a lot of it. In particular, the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, popularly known as DUUFK, has been the central venue for government consultations with the Stortinge in such cases. The Committee is an important forum for foreign and security policy in Norway. As far as possible, consultations must take place in such a way as to ensure that the consultations are appropriate to have a real impact on the government’s decision. However, we have come to the conclusion that there are a number of areas where the consultation system and the anchoring can be improved. The consultation requirement should be strengthened more institutionally, and the constitutional rules of competence relating to participation in military operations abroad appear unclear and inapplicable today. It may also be advisable for the government, in addition to consulting, to ensure that decisions to participate in military operations abroad have a clear parliamentary foundation. The Committee will later decide on the draft constitution Document 12:27 for 2019-2020, which addresses several of these issues. Then Red and SV have some views about participation in military operations abroad. They want to debate and vote in the open hall before the use of Norwegian military power abroad. We haven't put that behind us. It has been and is the government's prerogative to govern foreign policy. The last two weeks have illustrated to us how inconspicuous a crisis situation is, and how fast and sometimes unexpected such a situation can develop. The Workers' Party supports the government's consultation and good dialogue with the Stortinget. It creates a secure anchoring and provides the basis for the tradition we have, with a broad anchoring and consensus in foreign and defence policy. At the same time, we must not get into a situation where procedural rules delay the necessary use of military power. If we have to act quickly, we have to act quickly. Let me conclude by saying that the government must nevertheless facilitate the subsequent control of the Storting. The size must be provided with comprehensive and adequate information on the facts and assessments. Decisions must be taken in such a way that they can be verified. Decisions must be in writing and justified. The Committee has therefore said something about the requirements for the State Council lectures on which a decision on participation in military operations abroad is based. There's a signal that we're assuming the government is noticing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1461	The selection set up to assess the control function of the Storting, the Harberg Committee, was given an important additional mandate to ‘assess and propose procedures to ensure the participation and control of the Storting against Norwegian foreign and defence policy’. Overall and historically, Norway’s foreign and security policy has been characterised by cooperation and consensus, and it has been a strength. At the same time, however, there is not always a broad consensus, but in the field of foreign and defence policy, it is the government's prerogative to take the final decisions in such cases formally. As is known, it is regulated by the Basic Law § 25 and 26. The Constitution also demands the consent of the Grand Duchy in a number of important areas, in which previous speakers have been involved. One example is whether Norway should accede to a treaty requiring legislative change or of particular importance. There is also a requirement that the Storting consent to the increase or reduction of defence power and the use of ‘land protection and the other troops not attributable to the liners’, outside the border. The foreign and security area is different from many other policy areas by the government consulting the Stortinget before important decisions are taken. For over 100 years, the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee, DUUFK, has been a central venue for this. Confidential discussions within the Committee form the basis for a common understanding, and it also facilitates consensus. It is an overall committee which stresses that such consultations must take place in such a way as to have a real impact on the decisions which the government finally takes. This means that consultations have to be so early that no decisions have been made or processes have been initiated as it would be difficult or impossible to reverse. DUUFK shall be used only in accordance with its purpose and in those cases which at the time of consultation cannot be submitted to the Stortinge. The general information obligation of the Government of the Grand Duchy is not met by these consultations, nor shall these consultations be used in such a way as to prevent a public debate from being conducted by the Government. A Joint Control and Constitutional Committee supports the views of the Committee on the importance of strict practice of the parliamentary obligation of the Government to consult DUUFK on important issues relating to foreign policy, trade policy, security policy and preparedness, including preparedness for terrorism, as is also apparent in the second paragraph of Section 16 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. The consultation requirement should be strengthened more constitutionally, as recommended by the sample, and the Committee agrees. In several Nordic countries, parliamentary consent to military operations abroad is required. Until 1945, it was also a practice in Norway, without it being considered as constitutionally required, on the basis of what I have been informed. The size will decide on a fundamental law fixing of the consultation obligation and the threshold for when a write-off decision on a foreign operation is necessary, with the consideration of Basic Law Proposals 27 for 2019–2020, on amendments to Sections 25 and 26. The right does not support the minority's proposals in the case, but looks forward to the further discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1480	I would like to start by thanking the Committee and the rapporteur for their cooperation. While we deal with this matter, we are in the middle of the heaviest and most demanding and decisive foreign and security policy of our time. It is good that we stand in a rooted tradition of cooperation and consensus at political level. This matter is about Stortingen's involvement and control in foreign and security policy. Checks in this area are carried out within the same framework as those of the Grand Duchy's control of government and administration. We exercise control on behalf of the Stortinget as a elected body to ensure the accountability of the political system. The prerogative of foreign and security policy means that control in this area is carried out differently from that of domestic policy. According to Grundlova § 75 g, the task of control is followed up by the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, and the government consults the Stortinget in the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee before any decision is taken. A Joint Committee emphasises that the purpose of the consultation mechanism is to inform people in order to create a common understanding and to mitigate conflicts and promote consensus. A single committee points out that the prorogative does not limit the ability of the Storting to exercise control over the government. The importance of the control of the Storting is the reason why the consultation requirement may need a stronger constitutional anchoring. The control of the Grand Duchy may make it advisable for the Government to have a clear parliamentary foundation in the decision to participate in military operations abroad in addition to consultations. This will come back to the Constitutional Administration later in the spring. If the basis of control may require improvement, the most important thing is that demanding decisions in foreign and security policy are handled with the best wisdom and thoroughness in which time we live allows. The power distribution between Stortinget and the government must be at the bottom of history-forming choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1497	I want to start my speech by thanking both the committee and the case rapporteur, but I would also like to thank the members of the Harberg Committee for a great deal of work done, with their investigations and discussions on the control function of the Storting in foreign policy matters. It is important to ensure a good democratic procedure that the procedures to ensure the participation of Storting in Norwegian foreign and defence policy are a subject for discussion at regular intervals. It is therefore gratifying that the Stortinget decided to extend the mandate of the Harberg Committee to include this. As a person who normally teaches state law, I also very much appreciate something that can form the basis for good exam assignments in that subject in the future. Foreign and security policy has long stood in a special position in the Norwegian political landscape. The field of action has long been strongly consensus-oriented and has been characterised by a high degree of cooperation between the political parties. The government's prerogatives over parts of the Norwegian foreign and security policy result, of course, in the government holding large authorities of destination over Norwegian foreign policy. In particular, in comparison with other policy areas, it is important to underline the unique amount of authority exercised by the government on foreign policy issues. As several other speakers have spoken, it should be lacking. Traditional foreign policy has been added to the executive. However, as the Harberg Committee makes clear, it is important to consult the Stortinget in some cases. It is also stressed that consultations between the Government and the enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee must take place in such a way as to safeguard the influence of the Storting over the final decision. For me, it's just the interaction between big business and government that is at the heart of the democratic system we have in Norway. The committee also expressed concerns about the lack of constitutional anchoring for this consultation system in Norway. The left is behind these opinions of the sample. The consultation mechanism respects the Constitutional right of the EEAS to influence foreign and security policy. The scheme has been a practice in Norway for a long time, but not established in a constitutional way. We want a clearer anchoring of this, without in any way helping to replace the government's obligation to provide information. Under the Constitution §§ 25 and 26 the formal decision-making authority is in the field of foreign and security policy of the government, as I said. However, the selection underlines that the Storting is fully entitled to deal with issues relating to foreign and security policy. The committee also concludes that the Stortinget can make political commitments on its own initiative. The left is behind these assessments. Last week’s events have highlighted the importance of a good and open dialogue on Norway’s security policy. Russia's war of aggression in Ukraine has shown us that our freedom is more fragile than we might have imagined. That both growth and government can contribute to the formulation of this policy is positive. Of course, the formal decision-making authority is with the government, but the Stortinget also has an important role to play. Public opinion also on foreign policy issues is part of what separates us from an authoritarian regime. Although the discussion may be demanding, I am convinced that more public debate leads to better decisions, and I would like to thank the government for the last few weeks. I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports the Committee's assessment of the strengthening and visibility of the role of the Storting in key foreign and security policy issues and the right of the Storting to take policy commitments. In my view, the fact that an overall committee is in charge of this strengthens the matter and the role of the national Parliament in foreign policy matters. I really appreciate that. We are in a troubled world. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is bloody and unprovoked. In such exceptional situations, it is absolutely essential that we play on all sides of an open political system, and that the government and the Stortingeen can play on top of each other and challenge each other in what positions Norway should take. I feel that an overall committee is behind this desire and therefore sees this position as an important step in defining the role of the Stortinge in foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1518	Foreign and security policy is different, as many speakers have spoken today, from other policy areas, because there is a greater degree of cross-political consensus in the United Kingdom. Many times we're also trying to figure out cross-political agreement, even though it might not have been initially. Take, for example: The question of whether we should send a large contribution of strength to Mali: The previous government was very prepared to do so, but after consulting the Stortinget, it was decided not to do so, even though the government could actually make a decision on its own. There we differ from quite a number of other countries, and countries where there is a vote in the national Parliament. There may be a majority with perhaps one and two votes, so that decisions of this kind can be taken that have a much weaker anchor than what is in Stortinget through the Norwegian model, where we are seeking broader policy solutions. What also distinguishes the debate in this area from many others is that we do not automatically go and suspect each other's motives. It's not like you're essentially doing it in these discussions, and I think that's good. It is also clear from the comments that the Committee has been working on in this area. I think there is evidence that there has been a very good job from the Harberg Committee, and I have also followed it from the time I sat here. Parliamentary anchoring of all policies, including foreign and security policy, is essential for a well-functioning democracy, and the government's policy must, of course, be supported in the United Kingdom. However, as many people have been concerned, it is according to the Basic Law §25 and 26 of the Government to take final decisions in foreign and defence policy. But the prorogative does not prevent the Storting from controlling the government. It is a long practice for the government to consult the United Kingdom before taking important decisions in foreign policy. An example of this is the question of how we operate the arms export code in countries where war and conflict threaten. There we made a change to what has been very long practice over 60 years. Then I first went to Stortinget and said we considered implementing such a change. Very many political parties then made decisions, democratically, and we made a change in Norwegian practice that really changed Norwegian policy over the last 60 years. What characterises this area is that decisions often have to be taken quite quickly, but the Storting has the opportunity to do it effectively, and I think we did it in this case too. It's been practice since 1917, and it's been serving magnificence and government since then. I fully agree that we should not use the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to evade public debate on important issues of foreign and security policy. At the same time, there are often issues of confidentiality, there is security-grade information, and it is sensitive information that could harm our security and our interests if it becomes publicly known. It is therefore important that we preserve the confidentiality of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, regardless of the party in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1533	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1538	It is very good that we have had a thorough review and discussion of the role of Storting in both foreign and security policy. This was not originally part of the mandate of the Harberg Committee, but, on a proposal from the Red House, an overall increase was made in order to include it in the mandate: to look at both the involvement of the Storting in and control of foreign policy, and at public transparency and debate on the Riksrevision studies. So I'm grateful that it was taken in and has been retained in the sample work. So now we're in a special situation, where the world is standing on a bladed egg. Europe's largest country is in full swing with a international and brutal invasion. It actually shows the seriousness of and how crucial it is, what we are dealing with today's policy field. I am therefore pleased that an overall increase will adopt important clarifications on how to deal with foreign policy and security policy in the future. We have some historical – and also animal - experiences that show how vital it is to maintain a functioning democracy, not least when there is a critical situation. We read in the Godal report on the Afghanistan war that the Stortinget there should have got more information about goals, funds and expected results. We remember that before going to war with Libya, there was no formal meeting in Stortinget, but it was a round on cell phone and texting with the then parliamentary leaders. I am therefore pleased that the committee now states that the government has obligations to consult the Stortning before it takes important decisions, and that the Stortninget determines that royal resolutions to send forces out of the country must have a concrete content that the Stortinget can follow. Then it is a committee recommendation that the government ensure that international military operations have a parliamentary base. Together with SV, Red proposes that this be done by the government submitting a case for open debate and voting here in Stortinget, before sending soldiers out of the country. This is done in Sweden and Denmark, and it was also customary and regular practice – see. Harberg Committee – until 1945. This disagreement will exist, both in terms of foreign policy and security policy. The more important it is that we agree on good and clear principles for making decisions. Our view is that democracy does not stand in the way of action, nor in crisis, but is precisely the prerequisite for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1553	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox So today's map is ready to debate, and there's going to be a break until it's called for voting at 4 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1580	The size is ready to go to voting. We vote first on the remaining items on agenda No. 52 from Thursday 3 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1592	During the debate, Mr Wold put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 63 on patient and user rights the following paragraphs 4 to 5 (a) are inserted: Article 4-5(a) Age limit for cosmetic interventions, injections and treatment without medical or odontological justification Patients under 18 years of age may not give valid consent to cosmetic procedures, injections or treatment without medical or odontological justification, as specified. Section 4(b) of the Act on Health Care However, for patients between 16 and 18 years of age, parents or others who have parental responsibility for the patient may give valid consent to such intervention, injection or treatment. In Law 2 July 1999 No. 64 on health professionals, etc. Section 4(b) is added as follows: § 4 b. Age limit for cosmetic interventions, injections and treatment without medical or odontological justification Cosmetic interventions, injections or treatment according to § 4(a) or carried out by health professionals, without medical or odontological justification, shall not be carried out on patients under 18 years of age. However, healthcare professionals may perform cosmetic surgery, injection or treatment without medical or odontological justification on patients between 16 and 18 years of age if parents or others who are responsible for the patient agree to do so. For less risky forms of cosmetic treatment that cannot cause serious harm to the patient, illness, complications or side effects, typical skin care, etc., there will be no 18-year limit if treatment is carried out by other than health professionals. Cosmetic intervention, injection or treatment without medical or odontological justification means intervention, injection or treatment in which cosmetic or aesthetic considerations are the determining reason for the intervention, injection or treatment. The first subparagraph shall not apply to corrective or other treatment in the event of malformations, injury or disease, or after treatment of such conditions, as well as to dental regulation or other dental treatment which is odontologically justified but which has a cosmetic effect at the same time.» Alternatively, this proposal and the new sections 4 to 5 (a) and II (new section 4 (b) are added. The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1679	The remainder of II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1689	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1700	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1712	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Erlend Svardal Boe on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and Patient Focus There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and Patient Focus. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case for the authorisation of logo-peders and, where appropriate, other professional groups.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with a case for the authorisation of acupuncture officers and any other professional groups concerned.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e1923	Alternatively, I and II are voted on and proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 2 July 1999 No. 64 on health professionals, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 48, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: The authorisation system under this Act includes the following groups of health professionals: 1st ambulance works 2. pharmacologist 3rd audio graph 4. bioengineer 5. ergoterapeut 6. foot therapist 7. physiotherapist 8. health professional work 9. the Secretary for Health; 10th auxiliary caretaker 11th midwife 12. chiropractor 13. clinical nutrition physiologist 14th Blank 15th naprapate 16. care activities 17. Optician 18. orthopaedic engineer 19. Orthopist 20. osteopate 21. paramedics 22nd perfusionist 23. provisional protection eye 24th Psychologist 25. radiograph 26. Receptor pharmaceutical 27. Nurse 28th Dental Secretary 29th Dentist 30. Dentist 31. dental technician 32. Protective care II The law will come into force from the time the King decides. The King may decide that the individual provisions of the Law shall enter into force at different times. Those who use the titles of naprapate, osteopate or paramedics at the time of entry into force of the Act may continue to use the titles until they are finally finally refused an application for authorisation such as naprapate, osteoporosis or paramedics. However, the right to use the titles is waived if no authorisation such as naprapate, osteopate or paramedics has been applied for within 12 months of the date of the opening of such an application. The king may prescribe additional transitional rules.’;» Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2021	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2031	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2048	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2060	President! I did not register my vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2065	Since there are several people who did not get the vote, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2084	The right, Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2103	During the debate, Sofie Marhaug put forward a proposal on behalf of Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a case to reduce the electricity prices before the end of today’s power support scheme.’ The Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2207	The cancellation then goes over to vote over the matters on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2216	Case No. 1–7 is the second processing of laws and applies to legal acts 39 to 45. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2230	During the debate Mari Holm Lønsenth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess quickly how refugees with temporary collective residence living outside the reception of asylum can be temporarily guaranteed support for living.’; The other parties have indicated their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2348	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2360	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2375	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2387	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Grete Wold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red and Left proposal No 2, from Grete Wold on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of children and the rights of family members to information, participation and access to justice in line with the recordings and views of several hearing bodies mentioned in Prop. 6 L [[2021-2022]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2413	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, Red and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose that family members have a legal interest in foreign matters.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2467	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2477	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2489	During the debate, Andreas Shelg Unneland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the wording of Section 295, first paragraph, point (c) of the Criminal Code to include the exploitation of a person under 18 years of age in a particularly vulnerable ‘situation’.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2513	Behind the setting is the Working Party, Right, Center and Advance Party. The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2532	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Sveinung Stensland on behalf of the Right proposal No 2, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2544	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an up-to-date knowledge base on the societal, police and security implications of the possible general armaments of the police.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2568	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose amendments to the Police Act to ensure the general armament of the police.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2629	During the debate Seher Aydar put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left and Red Parties. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal to ensure that decisions on Norwegian participation in international operations have a clear parliamentary foundation by presenting a case for voting for the Stortinget.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-08.ana.ud520e2718	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
