ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e64	Representatives Sverre Myrli and Carl I. Hagen, who have been licensed, have taken the seat again. There are three permissive applications: from the representative Helge André Njåstad on care leave from 28 to 31 March, from the Central Party Group on leave under the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinge § 5, second sentence of the representative Geir Inge Lien from 24 March until further notice, and from the Labour Party Group on leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Tove Elise Madland from 24 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The applications will be dealt with immediately and be accepted. The following alternates will be convened to meet during the leave period: For Hordaland: Sigbjørn Framnes For More and Romesdal: Ingrid Waagen For Rogaland: Marte Eide Klovning
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e107	Ingrid Waagen and Marte Eide Klovning are present and will take the seat. The representative, Tobias Drvland Lund, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e114	On behalf of Marie Snee Martinussen, Seher Aydar and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to incorporate the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities into Norwegian legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e119	The representative of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e124	On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, Abid Raja and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to ensure the upliftment of people who have been subjected to illegal coercive use. On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, André N. Skkelstad, Abid Raja and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for immediate action to reduce the number of passport queues in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e131	The representative, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e136	On behalf of the representatives of Grunde Almeland, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to ensure a level playing field between independent brands and their own brands in the grocery market.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e141	The proposal will be managed in accordance with the rules of procedure. The President would like to point out that case No. 3 in the meeting map has not been public in the 48 hours required by the regulations, cf. Rules of Procedure § 46. However, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. No objection has come to that, and the president sees it as a matter of fact. Case No. 1 and 2 are processed together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e176	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time will also be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e183	In the motion for a resolution, the Government is asking for consent to the ratification of the Protocol with the long name ‘Protocol between the European Union’. [[EU]] The name is long, but it sums up a lot of the matter. The aim is to prevent, detect or investigate terrorism and other serious criminal offences. Law enforcement authorities briefly mean the authorities of the Member States responsible for the prevention, detection or investigation of terrorist offences or other serious criminal offences. This is a matter on which there is broad agreement. It is promoted by a single committee and there are no particular comments from any party. The Committee supports the Ministry's assessment that there is no decisive interest in data protection, contrary to the incorporation into Norwegian law of the provisions of the Eurodac II Regulation on the comparison of data for law enforcement purposes. The Committee points out that on 23 September 2020, the European Commission presented proposals for a new Pact for Migration and Asylum, also called the Migration Pact. An overall committee emphasises in its opinion that the Stortinge in the examination of this legislative proposal does not take a position on the EU migration pact.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e196	We see a world of millions of people fleeing, and many also have a mobility that makes it possible to travel over long distances around the world. It is therefore important that we have good agreements and good systems in order to meet these people in a dignified way, and also to ensure the proper handling of their asylum applications in the country they are applying for asylum. Cross-border cooperation is essential to ensure that those in need of protection receive prompt handling of cases and the detection of undesirable issues, such as criminal offences and, in particular, the prevention of terrorist activities. In order to do so in a good way, the exchange of relevant and necessary information between countries will be necessary. So this is precisely a ‘relevant and necessary’ point in this case, and privacy considerations must weigh heavily. In its opinion, the MiRA Centre expresses a fear that extended search access to the data systems of foreign authorities may violate the right of the asylum seeker to privacy. SV shares that view and would stress that no emphasis should be placed on immigration regulatory considerations over other considerations, such as the privacy of the individual. Furthermore, we share the critical comments of the Association for Legal Affairs on the use of information in Eurodax in criminal matters. The background to this is the provision of information in an application for protection, for asylum, and that is, of course, an obligation to do, but by extending the possibility of using this information for other purposes, it could lead to the slippage of areas that are not relevant or quality assured against privacy and legal certainty for individuals. The right to privacy of asylum seekers may be disregarded in the absence of a control requirement which does not fall under ‘relevant and necessary’. Large registers providing a wide range of access need to be closely monitored and strictly controlled, especially where it involves several countries and different laws. SV is behind the advice on the matter, but will just correct the danger of unwanted development and use of such a register. In addition to that, we have no comment on the matter and support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e207	Police must have good tools in their efforts to prevent and investigate serious crime. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the proposal to implement the provisions of the Eurodac Regulation in Norwegian law. The main objective of Eurodac is to determine which country is responsible for examining an asylum application under the Dublin Regulation. Norwegian police will now also have the opportunity to use Eurodac in the fight against crime. Criminals move between countries, and cross-border crime is a problem. In police work to identify persons linked to serious crime, access to Eurodac will be of great help to the police. Meetings in the register will provide a basis for obtaining more information about a person from another country and for initiating investigations. It is important for me to stress that most people who are registered with fingerprints in Eurodac are not criminals; fingerprints are given in connection with an asylum application, not in connection with crime. In order to ensure that data subjects are taken into account, it is very important that legislation and practices comply with the requirements of the Constitution, international human rights and data protection law. Furthermore, access to the register must not exceed what is necessary, and we must have strict conditions under which searches can be made. We also need to have systems for monitoring, marking and blocking information, and for logging. The EU Regulation ensures a good level of protection of personal data and the relationship with the Basic Law and human rights has been carefully assessed in the proposal. I believe there is a serious social need to allow police access to compare fingerprints with data from Eurodac. In this way, we can avoid people who represent a safety risk being distracted because the Norwegian police do not have access to the same tools as their partners in other European countries. In the fight against serious crime, it is important that the police have as complete and up-to-date information as possible. I believe that access to Eurodac will be an important tool in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e222	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e238	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 4 and 5 are processed together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e267	I would like to greet the rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be present today, and thank you for the cooperation in this matter. Norwegian banks and credit firms mainly finance their lending activities by receiving deposits and issuing bond loans and the like. in the securities markets. Debt securities are mostly covered bonds, the OMF, which we have used in Norway for nearly 200 years. They guarantee investors preferential rights to mortgage-secured mortgages and other assets in the event that the OMF issuer would not be able to settle separately. The OMF investors are then entitled to cover their claims before all others. Such secure placements provide cheap financing, which in turn can provide favourable lending rates to bank clients. While in Norway we have had well-functioning markets for the OMF for several years, OMF markets vary considerably elsewhere in Europe. A Directive was therefore adopted in 2019 to ensure that all EU countries have a legislation on OMF issuance which meets a number of minimum requirements. This gives national authorities a great deal of flexibility as long as the national rules are at least as strict as in the Directive. The Directive strengthens Norwegian legislation on a number of points, including: to reduce liquidity risk and improve investor protection. The legislative proposal is based on a draft prepared by the Ministry of Financial Supervision at its hearing in 2020. The majority of the Committee supports the content of the proposal and its legislative proposals. In the proposal, the inclusion decision of the EEA Committee, which was not taken at that time, is reserved. Since the Committee gave its opinion, the EEA Committee has decided to incorporate the Regulation into the EEA Agreement without significant changes. Since the Inst. 200 S recommended for decision was given before the decision of the EEA Committee, I include this submitted proposal for a decision updated with the specific decision. This proposal is proposed to replace its recommendation on behalf of the same majority as the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e280	Then the representative Helge Orten drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e285	I won't have the word for long. I just want to stress that SV has been critical of the OMF for several rounds when the Financial Committee has dealt with it. This type of securitisation may weaken financial stability, which is more important now than in the past. I would like to refer to the comments contained in these settings and in previous cases that have dealt with this, and would like to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e290	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e295	It is nice to see so many young people and promising at the gallery – welcome to Stortinget! It is a little technical matter we are discussing today, so it is not the easiest thing to follow up on, but we have to deal with many technical matters in Stortinget as well. The proposal we are considering today involves amendments to the Norwegian legislation on covered bonds, abbreviated as OMF. The amendments implement the EU OMF Directive and a corresponding Regulation. Norway has had a well-functioning market for the OMF for several years, and such bonds are currently an important source of funding for Norwegian banks. A large proportion of Norwegian housing loans are financed by the issue of OMF in the Norwegian and international markets. The OMF is a safe placement for investors, since investors have a preferential right to mortgage-secured mortgages if the bank could not settle separately. This makes the OMF cheap financing, which in turn can give lower lending rates to bank customers. In Europe, OMF markets vary considerably. The EU has therefore adopted a directive to ensure that all countries have legislation on the OMF that meets a number of minimum requirements. The OMF Directive is based on the same principles as current Norwegian OMF legislation. No major changes are therefore needed to adapt the Norwegian legislation to the Directive. However, the proposal for legislative changes will strengthen legislation on some points and is based on a draft law drawn up by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Implementation of the Directive may include, inter alia: contribute to the reduction of liquidity risk and the improvement of investor protection. It is important that the new rules enter into force in Norway at the same time as in the EU, since the market for the OMF is to a large extent European. The rules shall apply in the EU from 8 July. Delayed implementation of the Norwegian legislation could result in a risk of disruption of Norwegian banks’ access to finance and uncertainty in international markets regarding the quality of Norwegian OMF. The OMF bill will strengthen the Norwegian legislation and ensure that Norwegian banks still have good access to stable and cheap financing in Norwegian and European markets. The new legislation is important for the confidence of international investors in the quality of Norwegian OMF. At the same time, it shall reduce liquidity risk and strengthen investor protection. In the interests of rapid implementation, the Government promoted a proposition of consent before the decision of the EEA Committee was taken. On Friday 18 March, the EEA Committee decided to include the OMF Code in the EEA Agreement. The decision has not been substantially amended in comparison with the draft attached to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e314	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. Four and five. Case No. 6 and 7 are processed together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e343	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e361	The State budget for 2022 refers to the launch of an investigation project related to position-based road pricing, under the direction of the State Road Administration and the Tax Directorate. Position-based road pricing will be the introduction of a whole new way of charging tolls. Here we are talking in practice about installing a new Workers' Party and Centre Party taximeter into the car for ordinary people and businessmen. In the state budget for 2022, the government is increasing the vehicle charges after the state’s revenue from car charges has fallen every year since 2013. At the top of this, therefore, is the proposal for the introduction of a completely new charging machine through tax collectors in ordinary people’s cars, which in practice opens up the possibility of charging tolls on all road sections in Norway. Taximeters in private cars and possible roadside reading points are not only expensive, it is also in direct conflict with fundamental data protection considerations when governments provide for continuous monitoring of the location of all vehicles at all times. In Trondheim, Vegvesenet already carries out a test with 200 vehicles that have a taximeter installed in the car. The project foresees that position data should be stored locally in the car or app, but that position data will still be available for control purposes. This opens the possibility for other authorities to be given access to position data only because they exist. This may include, inter alia: be pressured to allow the police to access data from all cars in an area, based on the principle ‘you have done nothing wrong, you have nothing to fear’. It is a principle of the Progress Party is a clear opponent of it. By introducing a collection machine in all cars, the government opens up opportunities to increase the payment far beyond the actual use of roads. Although this is also possible with current charging systems, it is much easier to implement with road pricing. There are already many batches in this room that want to price the use of cars so high that it places obstacles in the way of car use in general, but in particular for some car types, distances and times of the day. Road pricing for passenger transport has been tried and launched in many countries, but has not yet been put into service. In the Netherlands and Finland, road pricing has been proposed politically but not implemented because its purpose was unclear. In the first place, there was a charge to limit urban drug traffic, before it was decided that it would be a charge for the entire road network. This led to difficult political processes and low acceptance among the audience. The Minister of Finance from the Central Party has in his first state budget decided to increase both the car charges and the fuel tax, after they fell in the eight years when the Progress Party had a hand on the steering wheel. The share of tolls in new projects was also reduced while the Progress Party was driving the country. The country’s share of funding increased and a historic road operation was carried out with new infrastructure and maintenance of existing ones. In addition, through negotiations with the Solberg Government, the Progress Party managed to close 18 toll stations in the years 2020 and 2021, saving the drivers for 2.6 billion. kr. The red-greens have consistently voted against it. Now the new government obviously wants to find out whether they can not only replace today's tolls with road pricing, but also use it to introduce user payments for the whole road system. Both tolls and road pricing are a very unsocial way of taxing people, and hit mostly those who have the least. The party of progress will therefore fight against both road pricing and tolls. Road pricing will be a new charging component which may be in addition to the already established car charges. Will the extension of the toll system to large parts of the road system through monitoring road pricing result in higher car charges for Norwegian drivers? If yes, it should be scrapped immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e380	I would like to point out that the ongoing investigation under the authority of the State Road Administration and the Tax Directorate is a follow-up to a decision taken on a major issue in March 2019. The government asked the government to include the investigation of new technologies that could replace today's toll system, as part of the review of today's car charging system. So it's a follow-up to a big decision. It is a pleasure to see that this work has started. The investigation was initiated by the previous government and is mentioned in their draft State budget for 2022. I think it is necessary to clarify what this investigation project is about. The investigation project is about finding possible new solutions for the calculation and collection of user charges and tolls. The aim is not to charge more fees or tolls. Rather, it is an objective that this project can lead to a fairer system. That will then be considered. The user charge on fuel is an excise duty on the national fund and shall praise the cost of road traffic to society. The tolling system shall finance earmarked transport projects and packages and the operation of public transport in urban areas. The user charge and the toll system thus have different purposes. They'll also have that if we introduce the new solution. Tolls shall continue to be allocated to the projects decided to finance by tolls and all toll collection shall continue to have local access. It is a prerequisite for the investigation project. There is no question of extending the tolling system, as the representative Limi gives the impression. At least that's not the goal of this government. We do not want to extend the tolling system. The representative Limi claims that road pricing will be a charging component that will be added to the other established charges. A position-based user charge, if any, will not be additional, but as a substitute for the current fuel user charge. This could contribute to a significant reduction in fuel prices. I would like to remind you that the user charge for petrol is approx. 5 kr per litre. There are many around in this country who are now totally dependent on a car. Such a new system could potentially shift the burden from those who do not have an alternative to a car to those who choose a car despite adequate alternatives in public transport. The level of the fees will continue to be decided in the annual budgets, and I cannot see that a new system for the collection and calculation of tolls and user charges in themselves will lead to higher car charges. The Tax Directorate and the State Road Administration have also not been asked to assess the level of charges in the ongoing investigation. It is a political issue, and this government has a clear goal of reducing the charges – the usual charges that affect people. Here I would also like to make it clear that this government has promoted the objective of reducing the level of charges for ordinary people and has been very clear on this in the Hurdal platform. In 2021 the total was 65 pst. of the cars sold in Norway electric cars. Every sixth car on Norwegian roads is today an electric car. In addition, many hybrid cars are sold using low fossil fuel. When the user charge is mainly applied to fossil fuels, it means that very many drivers do not pay for the costs they impose on others: queues, noise, accidents, road wear and emissions that are harmful to the environment and health. These are the costs associated with the use of a car, including an electric car. I believe it is not fair in the long run that those who can afford to buy an electric car will not pay for these costs, while those who drive an old car will pay for these costs. The tax burden could potentially be more equitable with position-based user charges. It will cover both electric and fossil cars and could capture costs of driving that vary with time and location. This could improve the geographical distribution of the tax burden as the external costs of driving are much higher in cities than in districts. Today, drivers in the districts pay disproportionately compared to the drivers in more densely built districts. These are questions the project will be able to answer, and then you will have to decide on them when you get the different answers. Several public authorities have pointed to weaknesses in the current user charge. Both the Excise Committee, the Green Tax Commission and several others have thought it wise to investigate this. I look forward to the debate with Limi, but what is important is that at least here you get answers as to whether there is a possibility for another type of system. I also see the counter-conceptions and the important limitations you need, for example. in the case of privacy considerations. When you have this investigation, you have to be very aware of how this should possibly also be done in privacy. That's why we're going to get this investigation, and then government and big business are going to decide what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e403	Thank you for the statement and the answer to the Minister of Finance. I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance stresses that it is not intended to introduce more taxes and that there is no need to extend the tolling system. Unfortunately, what is often a consequence of a new charging system is that it gives it the opportunity to increase the charges and, in this context, the charges for the drivers. If implemented, the system will be very easy to use for that purpose. I think there is reason to recall a statement by transport scientist Lasse Fridstrom in TØI, who said to the magazine Motor on February 5, 2020: “There is so much money that politicians don’t know what to do with them.” This illustrates the idea behind the road pricing system, where the possibilities of charging are actually opened up even more. That means that we can get tolls on absolutely every road, and at least it doesn't want the Progress Party to contribute to. So the Minister of Finance had very little interest in privacy considerations, and the monitoring aspect was not mentioned. It's the other principle side of this system, precisely that it provides an opportunity to monitor all vehicles, if it becomes a position-based system to provide the basis for the charging load. Then I will refer to what the National Association of Car Importers has said. They are opposed to road pricing as a principle, but at the same time they launch another alternative, if you want to change the charging of the car lists, and that is, you can charge the traffic insurance fee, which is currently levied by the insurance companies. They already have a system for calculating the traffic insurance charge and not least insurance on cars, depending on the distance. That system could be further developed. Then you would at least let go of what is fundamentally objectionable, because it will be a monitoring of everyone who travels on Norwegian roads. But I would like to underline once again: in that case, it would not be to charge more taxes, but to change the charging system, so that it might hit better. So I ask the Minister of Finance not to listen to TØI, but listen more to the National Association of Car Importers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e414	This is the first interpellation I've been to after a new system, so I thought I had ten minutes and not five. So that's why this was gone with privacy – when I suddenly saw where the clock was going. I very much agree with what Mr Limi says, that it is important that if such a system is to be put in place, fundamental data protection considerations must be respected. If we can't recommend such a system. That is why it is an important part of the investigation, precisely to ensure privacy. I can also understand the turmoil that is coming, that you think this is just a new method of increasing the tax burden, the cost of using a car. That's not our intention. There's another way that we can take the charges in a more fair way, and that can hit better, for example. the dimension that in parts of Norway there are no alternatives to cars at all. The cost of using a car is often a greater part of the daily load. Then, through such a system, you can make sure that the tax burden gets lower, because that's the option you have. Creating the type of differentiated fuel sets through the fuel system is more difficult, and here it may be possible. So it's important to be told, as I also said in the main post, that this should not be a substitute for toll projects, because toll projects must be local projects. Some of the nice thing about toll projects that have local anchoring is that it should go over a period of time, and then, when the project is financed, the tolls should be removed. I think that if you don't make it like this, you expand more and more elements you're going to take in through the toll system, then the resistance to that kind of work over time will be very, very high. But if you know, for example. When you build a new bridge, you have to pay some toll for a few years, and then, when the bridge is paid, the tolls are removed, and local politicians from all parties can say that we are doing this in this period of time, and then the project is funded. From the government's side, this is not a goal of creating a system to demand more, but it's to see that you can do better, and it's to replace some of the fees we have today. Then get the investigation that it's now working on, then show if there's an appropriate way to do it, and then we'll have to discuss it politically – with all the fore and counter-arguments it's with all that kind of systems. It will be now too, but then we, as politicians, get to make assessments and do what we think is best. So anyway, as a member of the government, I'm formerly elected, and also the party leader, very concerned that we need to have a transport policy that allows it to be development and growth across the country, and that the cost of using different transport solutions is not too high. This may also be a method of reducing costs in certain parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e429	This is a debate that has been going on for a long time. For my part, I have had some seagoing time from the Transport Committee, so far as we have had a debate there for a long time. At least what I think is fundamental is that technology is changing, new opportunities and how we can set up both the charging system and the collection of charges, change. That's something we think is fundamentally sensible to figure out. How, then, can we possibly apply new technologies to ensure that we have the fairest possible collection of charges in this country? I think that it would be good to be able to wait for an investigation, get that investigation and place for just having a knowledge base to take this debate further. So it's like I have an understanding of counter-conceptions. The reason for this is not that we have ambitions to increase the fees, on the contrary, car charges have now fallen for quite many years. Of course, a good part of it is more and less about zero taxes on electric cars — turnover and use of electric cars. But the starting point is that the greater the number of electric cars or zero-emission vehicles we get in the Norwegian fleet, the more unfair the system becomes. At some point, we also have to think that everyone has to contribute to the split layer, and we have to distribute the fees in the most equitable way possible. Then I think it makes sense to find out if there are technologies that can contribute to it, to provide a better system than today – not to charge more, but to get it fairer. Privacy is very high in the Right, in our party. That is why we are also concerned that it must be an important part of the investigation. If I recall correctly the proposal from when it was adopted in Stortinget, it was about new technology in a broad perspective, it was not just about satellite-based solutions. It could be a solution. The Data Protection Authority has also considered this and in fact pointed out that with today's technology it is possible to achieve this in such a way that one can also maintain privacy. I think there's at least an even better starting point for us to have a reasonable and thorough investigation about it, just to get all the points of view, both for and against. For our own part, it's not like we're locked into one solution. I believe that the investigation will give us some answers to some basic questions. If there are other solutions that are better than what's come up so far, that's fine. The most important thing is that we can make sure that we also have a fair and fair collection system in which we manage to distribute the burden to those who use the roads, because I think that if we continue with today's system, we will only charge user-related charges from cars that use either petrol or diesel. It's going to be very unfair over time. I also believe this is an important aspect of this debate. We have to be able to get a system that allows everyone to be involved and contribute to the split layer. In this way, we are also able to keep the charges down to a reasonable level for each car owner, and that is an important element in this, namely the fairness of the distribution between the different car owners, different car types and geographically, where you live in the country – and not least the type of emissions you have from the car park and the individual car type. We have a positive input into this. We want the investigation, we want the knowledge base, and then we want to conclude when we have it on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e444	In Norway it is already expensive to use the car. It is particularly noticeable in the districts of Norway. The centre party, which before the election talked about reducing the fees, made sure to increase the fuel charges in its first state budget. Now we see that the government wants to make it even more expensive to drive a car by trying out road pricing. We know that there are several representatives in Stortinget who would like to see taxes on driving a car far higher than they are today. To be clear: we in the Progress Party want to cut the fees. Increasing charges is unsocial, and those that have the least will be the ones that are most affected. Many people with poor advice may thus be forced to park the car, and many of them actually live in District Norway. Let it be clear that the Progress Party is against the government's plans to install taxammets in all cars throughout Norway. It will provide both today's government and other politicians on the left who like taxes, opportunities to milk the drivers for even more money. We hear what the minister says, but I do not fully believe that the fees will not increase, especially now that we see that the red-green government has started the first attempt at road pricing already, in Trondheim. Some might think that it's harmless, as it happens in a big city, but we in the Progress Party believe that road pricing could turn bad into districts. Road pricing will mean that many people living outside urban areas will have to pay, even if they are running on new road projects where there are toll stations today. In addition, the system of road pricing is characterized by a monitoring society, and we do not want that. Me and most of the people I know do not want the authorities to be able to have a full overview of where we are at all times. A GPS system in each car will open up just that and will also invite you to abuse if the information comes in the wrong hands. So my opposition to road pricing and the Progress Party is not just about the fact that the government, with the Minister of Finance of the Central Party, will open up a system that can make driving in Norway much more expensive. It is also about important data protection considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e457	I would like to thank the representative of the Progress Party for promoting an interpellation on an important theme, on road pricing and the investigation of models for it. I also notice that the representative Limi is concerned that a new road pricing system, or a new charging scheme, should lead to an increase in charges. I can appreciate that concern, in the light of the experience of the Progress Party itself in sitting in government and sitting with the Minister of Finance. There were still new proposals for fees. Fortunately, some of them were shot down along the way, both airbag charges, which were actually adopted by... No, not airbag! [[Laughter]] Yeah, if you have a plastic bag on a plane, it might be an air bag. But the plastic bag charge – it didn't make any of it. The air passenger fee, on the other hand, it turned out to be something, and we have also had other examples of charges introduced by the Progress Party in the government. However, if you only keep today's fees, it is not that there is any guarantee that the fees will not increase. We have also seen this with the Progress Party in the government, that a number of the existing fees, both on fuel, electricity and other, have increased significantly. In total, the fees increased while the Progress Party sat with the Minister of Finance, by over 6 billion. kr. However, the government that is now sitting on the ground has a very clear wording that taxes on ordinary people should be reduced. Then you can discuss the device on both fees and other systems. One of the things on which the Minister of Finance is very clear, on behalf of the government, is that any system of road pricing should not help to increase the income of the state from the drivers. On the contrary, one must at least determine whether it can contribute and lead to lower charges for some of those who currently rely on the use of a car – that one distributes the load in another way. I also record that the representative Limi says that we want to be on our own about a system of road pricing. Well, other countries also have variants of solutions other than tolls, where you only pay at one point where you drive. Some countries in Europe also have payments, for example, for how far you drive on a motorway. So the fact that an investigator is an on-road pricing system is interesting, and then we'll see what this investigation says about whether it's going to be possible to create a system that will actually give more fair payment between different groups, and that also takes care of privacy considerations. I believe that the interpellant draws up on privacy, is a very important argument that one should go thoroughly and thoroughly into, and that the Minister of Finance also says that the government takes the utmost seriousness. So we are attending to the investigation, which was initiated by the previous government by a decision in the Stortinget, and which is to be carried out now by a government that is concerned that we should take care of the everyday life of people in Norway. We're going to make sure that the charges that affect ordinary people are brought down, and we're going to make everyday life better, both in the countryside and in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e474	I have to say that this debate is going to be totally unreal. It's quite shocking and unreal that the majority in this room want to force the Norwegian people to install GPS transmitters in every vehicle they have, in every car they have. George Orwell and ‘1984’ pale in terms of monitoring and control. Then the person who manages to hack into such a system, or the person who controls the system, can have constant control, at any time 24 hours a day, over where all vehicles in Norway are located at any time. Unfortunately, I am not surprised that the Workers' Party wants to do so. That Right wants, unfortunately I'm not surprised, but that most people, the common people party, the Center Party, who at least try to create the impression that they're occupied with people out there, are involved in this extremism, I can't understand. So it's pointed out that other countries in the world have similar arrangements. No, there are no other countries in the world that have road pricing for passenger cars. There are no other countries in the world that have forced their population to install GPS transmitters in every car they have, nor will it ever happen in any other country. This is extremism at the worst. But I'm going to give a little bit of justice to the controlling politicians who want road pricing. In the case of long-distance transport, heavy transport, the NLF is actually positive, and that is because of the competitive situation. It has been tested, and it is used in Europe. It's to prevent social dumping. It is in order to ensure a level playing field. It's not to bother people most with new taxes and new expenses and a constant monitoring. Then we hear that privacy needs to be protected. It is such bureaucracy that some central party politicians have evidently been served by their advisers or bureaucrats. I don't trust that. It is such a rhetoric that should be used to package something negative into a positive wrapping. It's not going to be taken care of, we're afraid. The worst thing is that we fear an increased cost for Norwegian drivers. That it should be so pleasant and pleasant with road pricing – it is quite impressive, really, how an attempt to sell a negative case in a positive way. It's like driving a taxi 24 hours a day. Now I don't drive so much taxi. It is usually after having been in town for a few hours and perhaps taken a beer or two or three and cannot drive a car, and then it is better to drive a taxi. When I look at the bill gradually, at least the day after when you see the bill, it's not always very low. It can be quite expensive. I imagine that a constant will get such bills in the post office from the state. When you drive around with the car, the state sends the taxi bill. One is going to get taxi bills all the time, 24 hours a day. What about those who have many cars? I know many farmers who have many vehicles. You want a GPS for everyone? The Minister of Finance has even more vehicles. You want a GPS transmitter in every car? And what about those that have old veteran cars? Should they also be forced to have GPS transmitters in each and every car? So that's how to set the prices. So I understand that the Workers' Party and the Centre are now trying to sell it in as something positive, that the prices are going to go down and it's going to be cheaper to drive a car. But we know the loop at the corridor. We know that once a new fee has been introduced, it's very easy to adjust it up with 1 ear, 2 ear, 3 ear, and need these tax-paying politicians a little bit more money, adjusts one up a few more ears. We can do that kind of, and then the prices are going to go up. And how is that to be differentiated? Here it is made as if it would be nice to drive a car in the countryside, it would be cheaper to drive a car in the countryside, and that it would be expensive only in Oslo. There's classic center part rhetoric to bring their pickers, the few they have left – the last measurement was at 6.6 pst. – to bring with them the voters who are out in the village. But the voters in the village are going to be tricked. They're going to have to pay several dollars a mile to get permission to drive a car. If you're going into a city, I just don't think one can afford to drive into a city. Well, that's what the goal is, to stop the drivers from driving in cities. I fear that it may be 5–6–7 kroner per km to drive in a city, and that it will be 2-3 kroner per km to drive on the road. Then it becomes more expensive to drive on the highway. If you were to dream up at higher speeds, like we in the Progress Party and the business community are busy, is it going to be a separate fare to drive at 110? There's going to be a scare tariff, because that's what's contaminating you in addition. One can also charge such charges on the road pricing system. If one passes 90, the price goes up. We're going to drive slowly, and we're going to rather not drive a car at all. This is not a brilliant idea. That's something we're taking a great distance from, and I'm challenging particular parties that are essentially reasonable, like the Right. I know that Helge Orten is a wise and competent colleague of mine, so I hope at least that the Right takes the senses, so that the Progress Party does not stand all alone on the people most of its side.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e497	I have to admit – no matter how much I try not to do – that I have become so old that I actually remember having counting tools on the hub of the cars that used diesel. I remember. They read it and sent it in to get paid based on how much they had done. Personally, I think this could be a system that would be a milk cure for the state, just as the previous representative said. It will be very easy to add and cancel the price when you find it useful. I'm from the districts. I think the consequence of such a system is that we who live in the districts will be the ones who will have to take the largest bill. We're going to have to pay more for public transport in cities. We have to pay for the walking and cycling paths in the cities through the fact that we use the car to get there and move on in our long-distance country – where we have to go, at work or school or what it might be. I think that's the big question in this. In the case of tolls, we know today that in the case of road construction, the drivers are happy to pay for the construction of pedestrian and bicycle paths. It's going to be like that in the future as well. If you see in an investigation how to burden the use you have on the road, you shouldn't say no to knowledge. Of course you have to be open to that. But I think you also need to find solutions that make you not do person monitoring. They're saying we're going to have a spice layer. Yeah, most of the parts in this room have the starting point that it's going to be a spice layer, that you have to pay tolls. For the Progress Party, that is not an argument. We do not want tolls, nor do we see the need for an electronic road pricing system. I personally have AutoPASS in the car today because I travel with a lot of ferries and through some toll stations in Nordland. It works, but it's also some kind of surveillance. Today we have. Building roads on government bills and not on tolls will help to make sure you don't need them at all. Today we charge taxes on fuel. We charge the road tax and those things. We can do that without being monitored. I'm really just asking the parties that run, to either put it away or change it so that you focus on allowing those who use the car to use it because it's a necessity for them. It is a necessity for a very large number of people in this country to come up with themselves. It must also be said that the most sensible thing is that the state takes the bill, and that this is an unnecessary system that is being tried and implemented by the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e510	There are many of us who know where the representative Johnsen is at all times, but he has chosen that for himself. No one has ordered Johnsen to be traceable, and that's the big difference when we discuss privacy and a satellite-based system. Then it is to replicate to Nils Kristen Sandtrøen that the Workers' Party has consistently voted against any proposal to reduce car charges and car charges, including tolls. So I think you should go a little bit by yourself when you try to criticize what the Progress Party got into the previous years of government. I saw the Minister of Finance taking note of the tip from the representative Gælsvik about an airbag charge. I think it's getting little accurate; in that case it had to be a fee on spyware, but then limited to the fee on the use of that kind of bags. - It was a joke. I choose to interpret the Minister of Finance as agreeing that car charges should not be increased and that they should be reduced on the contrary. Then it remains to be seen in political action. What we're talking about now is an investigation into a possible system transformation. To say that there are other countries that have conducted these investigations before Norway. They have come quite a long way, they have investigated it all the way to implementation. Nevertheless, they did not choose to do so, because there are obviously some weaknesses, but also great resistance and not least this with privacy, which must be safeguarded. But if you want a system conversion, there's an alternative that already exists. That is what I mentioned, which the car importers have also called for, using the collection systems for traffic insurance fees. It is established under the auspices of the insurance companies, and it can be expanded very easily. Then you'll also get a type of fee based on annual driving time, and you drop it satellite-based and this monitoring. So I think that's reason to warn -- even if it's said that it's just an investigation, there's reason to warn, because we know that if this system is introduced, it's very easy to use the system to increase the charges for the drivers. This may mean that you actually get tolls on absolutely every road – also on the seatways that we drive up on Tynset, Sandtrøen. In the worst case, we will also get a fee on the kilometres that are driven there. I want to end by quoting a former representative, Martin Kolberg, who used to say that the fight continues. It does, this time against road pricing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e528	Thank you for the debate, and thank you for a little bit of a debate. I can assure both the representative of Gülsvik and the representative of Limi that we should not impose a separate airbag charge. My predecessor as Finance Minister, Siv Jensen, tried to introduce some new taxes, and that was about. the same failure every single time. I heard that the representative Johnsen was shocked that charges could be increased with one ear here and one ear there. I remember what it was like when the Progress Party crashed, then it wasn't just an ear here or an ear there. It was individual charges that increased by between 80 and 100 pst. overnight, e.g. on chocolate and non-alcoholic beverages, where one suddenly found out that only the fees were to be fired in a late night hour where Limi was the negotiator. It must have been a demanding moment. When the Progress Party itself had the opportunity to control the charging policy, there were some such bomb shots of dimensions. In this debate, it's important that now it's an investigation, and the whole purpose of that investigation is to get facts and knowledge, and then you get to discuss it. It has been clarified by the Central Party and the Government that we do not believe that this should be used if we were to find out in the investigation that we get more fees, this is in order to possibly achieve a fairer charging system. Some make it as if it should be added, e.g. at user charge. This should be a substitute for some of the current charges, as other geographical considerations can then be taken into account, for example: that at Tynset you have less opportunity to drive a bus than you have at the Oslo Centre. Then you can take the kind of grip that makes you get the costs down for those who actually depend on the car in their everyday life. Then it's the privacy bill that's come up. There is no doubt that there is an important debate. The exact same thing you can discuss about AutoPASS tiles that we have today, and today we give away a lot of data when we're out driving. There you can also discuss privacy, as well as what has been raised by the representative Sandtrøen around mobile use. There's no doubt that there's an incredible number of tracks we're laying off. Although we already do, we have to take that debate. In every new technology you should choose to introduce, you have to be aware of this, so that we just protect privacy, even though we all more or less voluntarily provide too much information about ourselves thanks to our own use of mobile phones. With regard to fiscal policy, this is not a means of absorbing more. It has to be investigated whether you can take it in a better way, which means that you can manage to bring down the costs for those who need it, and then you can manage to make distortions where you want it. There are also quite large operating costs around some of the toll solutions you have today. Thank you for the round. The investigators must note that this is going to be an investigation that will be read, with great interest and great political attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e543	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is over. Thus, today's maps are processed. The store is taking a break, and according to the announced agenda it will be voting at 0 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e566	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e643	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e653	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e672	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e691	During the debate, Helge Orten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision consents to the approval of Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No. 76/2022 of 18 March 2022 on the inclusion of a Regulation [[EU]] The proposal replaces the Committee's proposal for a recommendation, which lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e715	During the debate, Mr Kaski presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left, the Red and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to assess the overall impact of the financial stability of bank financing through covered bonds and related to the development of the housing market, cross-ownership of the OMF between banks and the opening of securitisation under the securitisation regulation». [[OMF]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e1216	The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e1228	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e1243	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e1518	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e1528	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. Case No. 8 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-24.ana.ud113e1574	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
