ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e91	The representatives of Tuva Moflag, Day-Inge Ulstein, Åse Kristin Ask Bakke, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates are now taking their seat: For Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy For Finnmark: Heidi Anita Lindkvist Holmgren For Hordaland: Sigbjørn Framnes For Oslo: Agnes Nærland Wilderzeich A number of permit applications are available: by the Christian People's Party on leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad from 8 February onwards. 15 and until further notice by the Workers' Group on the Permit of Mr Åsmund Aukrust, on 8 and 9 February, to attend the EFTA Parliamentary Meeting in Brussels by the Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament on leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Greens/European Parliament of the Council with effect from 8 February and until further notice by the Socialist Left Party Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representatives Kathy Lie and Grete Wold from 8 February onwards and until further notice by the Workers' Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative Marianne Sivertsen Næss, with effect from 8 February and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Western Agder: Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius For Akershus: Tobias Hangaard Linge and Kristoffer Robin Haug For Buskerud: Audun Hammer Hovda For Finnmark: Sigurd Kvammen Rafaelsen For Westfold: Aram Karim
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e202	Tobias Hangaard Linge, Kristoffer Robin Haug, Audun Hammer Hovda and Aram Karim are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e213	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e218	I would like to make a proposal, on behalf of the representatives of the Magnificent Marian Hussein, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Birgit Oline Kjerstad and myself, to ban rubber cullet.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e223	The representative, Dag-Inge Ulstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e228	On behalf of the representative of Olaug Vervik Bollestad and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to ensure that the right to take paid work is irretrievable to applicants for asylum, as well as the right to basic health care for all residents of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e233	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e251	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e258	As the rapporteur, I would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Cooperation in the case. We are a committee that is in agreement that all children should have a good and safe kindergarten offer, but I must also be honest that we do not always agree as to how we should achieve that goal. This is a proposal from the Red and SV representatives on profit-free kindergartens, and a majority of the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Left and the Progress Party are proposing to reject the proposal. With that, I take off the case rapporteur's hat and put on the more political hat. I am pleased that this proposal is being rejected, but it does not reduce my concern about the dramatic change we see in Norwegian kindergarten policy from the new government at the moment. This is not the first debate we have on this issue, and I don't think it will be the last one either. I think this debate is going to escalate when we see the consequences of the clear change in direction that the new government has taken in the field of kindergarten policy. Private kindergartens have received an average of 89 pst. of what public kindergartens have had in recent years. For every hundred copies the public kindergartens have received, they have received approx. NOK 89. Now it's on top of this adopted a cut of several hundred million dollars. We also know that private kindergartens have often had higher satisfaction and lower sick leave than public kindergartens. I fear that the new direction from this government is undermining and putting the nail in the coffin for the most successful welfare reform we have seen in Norway in the last 20 years, namely the kindergarten reform. The kindergarten agreement is a settlement that, unlike many other reforms in the Norwegian public sector, actually worked. It gave results in a short time and made sure we got full babysitting. Today we have a good interaction between private and public kindergartens. The 300,000 children in kindergarten in Norway today are distributed 50/50 between public and private kindergartens. This is an offer parents are largely satisfied with, and the children thrive in kindergartens. Now that dramatic changes are being made in this successful reform, we are at risk of destroying a well-functioning kindergarten sector. My prediction is that the huge cuts to private kindergartens and the other changes that have been announced mean that we're going to see that more people who run private kindergartens throw in the towel, because it's almost impossible to operate predictably and have good and healthy operation. Although I know it's an explicit goal of the government to fight the power of the kindergarten chains, the truth is that 60 pst. of the private kindergartens in Norway are single, stand-alone kindergartens operated by fires and others, and they are not part of large kindergartens. The current policy will just result in several of those who run single kindergartens seeing no choice but to become part of a larger umbrella.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e273	The representative proposal we are discussing today deals with a number of proposals on changing funding and regulation of kindergartens. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure that the tax and parental payments go to the best possible childcare facilities for the young. We want to lower the nursery rate, and we want to raise the quality. There is a broad consensus that such legislation today is not adapted to the current situation. We are not sure that the money is just going to the children – we have to do something about that. The legislation was made at a time when the sector was to be expanded. Now we have a completely different situation. The numbers speak for themselves. Private chains are growing, at the expense of diversity in the sector. The four largest commercial kindergarten chains now operate every three kindergartens. In 2013, the figures showed that they operated every five kindergartens. The Labour Party will have diversity in the sector and it will be reflected in funding. We don't have to close our eyes because private kindergartens also make big profits for some private people. During 2019 and 2020, foreign investment funds purchased at least 238 nursery buildings, thus being privately and publicly owned with and financing billions of prizes for private purposes. The legislation is out of date, and there has been a long time to change it. I believe that it is under any criticism that the Solberg government did not take any notice, despite the fact that repeated decisions were made in the Stortinget and a number of investigations with clear recommendations on the need to update the legislation. It is absolutely necessary to create legitimacy and a better quality. There are too many variations in private kindergartens, and we know that it's the small, single ones that often have the economic need. In the government platform, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party state that we want to introduce strict and clear legislation. We want to ensure more democratic governance. Indeed, our objective is a regulatory framework that ensures diversity in the sector. Regardless of whether the children go to private, public or non-profit kindergartens, we need to ensure stable and secure funding that builds up under quality. As the Council of State itself will explain in its statement, the government is well-informed in its efforts to change regulation and ensure sound funding. I am sure that this will lead to more quality and a regulation that builds up under good legitimacy throughout the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e288	A good public-private collaboration has given us full child care coverage and a good offer for the children. For the Right, private kindergartens and good public-private cooperation are also part of the solution for the future. Private kindergartens contribute to diversity and freedom of choice, and they are an important driver of quality. For the Right, the quality of the offer is most important, not the ownership of the nursery, but it is worth noting that figures from Telemark research from 2021 show that the cost of operating kindergartens for the public, less parental, is about 26 billion. kr for about 136,000 full-time seats in municipal kindergartens and about 22 billion. SEK for about 137 000 full-time seats in private kindergartens. It's also good that more than 95 pst. employees of private kindergartens are covered by collective agreements recommended by trade unions for their members. Parents are consistently satisfied with the nursery provision in Norway, but private kindergartens have slightly higher parental satisfaction than municipal kindergartens. It shows that private kindergartens offer at least as well to the children, at a lower price for society. At the same time, there is a different kindergarten sector today than when the nursery agreement was concluded. The framework therefore needs to be adapted to the sector as it is today. That work started under our government. Several important adaptations came into place, including: national nursery services. It is also necessary to adjust the financial system in order to ensure the operational basis of the stand-alone kindergartens and to ensure transparency for the larger chains. Government grants shall ensure a good offer for the children. Safe kindergartens with employees who thrive at work, where children can expand and gain social experience and valuable learning through play, are one of the most important things that politicians can contribute to. Good kindergartens with competent employees are a valuable investment for society and for individuals. For the Right, the quality and content of the provision of children is the most important thing, but we are also concerned about taking care of the great diversity we have of kindergartens. If we're going to make sure that this is true, then we're going to have to put the ideological chauffeurs on the stable. The right would like to participate in a wider dialogue to ensure a wide range of high-quality childcare facilities. In this way, private kindergartens cannot be phased out, but we must build on the Norwegian kindergarten model with good public-private cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e303	Our kindergartens are an important venue to give our children and young people a good start to life, where, as a society, we can take responsibility for inclusion, integration and development. Today, half of the children in Norway go to municipal kindergartens, while the other half go in private. It is precisely this combination, which emerged from the inter-political child care agreement, that has ensured that we currently have full child care coverage. When we discuss and promote proposals in this matter, it is important that we remember exactly that. For the Central Party, it is important that we see the great value of the offer provided by the private and ideal kindergartens, but that we should develop it for the best for both children and young people across the country. Then we have to stop digging into the trenches in this case and raise it to something more. Today, legislation and the funding system are a challenge, both for municipalities and for the individual kindergarten, and we all agree that changes should be made. That's why it's critical that what's happened in the last few years has been far too little to clean up. The difference in grants is still large from municipality to municipality, and one of three private kindergartens is in deficit, while on the other hand we see figures showing large profits and dividends. In view of this, we in the Centre Party are particularly concerned about the small, individual private kindergartens that experience economic unforeseeableness and pressure. More and more ends up being bought up by larger, commercial chains. That is why we are pleased that the Hurdal platform and the government are clear that we should take action. In the future, it will be important for us to find solutions that will work over time and that will enable us to maintain and operate the kindergartens that constitute an important offering throughout the country, without being subject to large profits that do not benefit the children. We in the Center Party will continue to work to create a code and funding system that works in practice, providing predictability for municipalities, drivers, employees, children and families across the country. I hope the Storting will be with us on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e316	We have reason to be proud of the Norwegian kindergarten tradition. No other country in the world has as well developed an offer to our children as we have, and in our kindergarten tradition, one consideration has been first, namely the development of children on their premises, through both play and learning together, guided by skilled employees. Finally, the question of profit and revenue in our kindergartens is just about defending this good kindergarten tradition. Because what's going on? Well, the offer of our smallest children is increasingly driven by large commercial groups. If it continues as it is now, actually only five large groups will own over half of the private kindergartens by 2029. Money provided to children's kindergarten services through government grants, parental payments, cheap plots from municipalities and mortgages, is collected from kindergarten and used to fill group owners' already well-filled bank accounts. The last example in a long series is the nursery baron Eli Saevareid, who just before Christmas sold 142 nursery buildings to a Swedish property giant for 4.5 billion. kr. These are nursery buildings built with Community funds on reasonable plots made available by the municipality. We've only sold kindergartens for 14 billion in a year and a half. kr. You have to be reasonably far down in Civita's market-enhancing reading circles in order not to react to such examples. SV stands for a quite reasonable position, namely that each krone community provides the children's offer through government grants, parental payments or reasonable plots, should go to that very point, at the children's offer, not to private enrichment for a few at the top. That position is not radical. In a number of surveys where people have been asked, it has been shown that a large majority agree with us – not just among the voters of the SV or the voters of the Workers' Party, but throughout the people. So the expectations of the left-hand majority of the Storting are clear: the promises to stop the profit and the trade must be fulfilled. The parties to the government do not comply with this proposal, even if they voted in favour of the exact same thing before the elections. But in any case, we in SV will continue to use our key role in Stortinget to drive through new breakthroughs for care about trafficking in our kindergartens. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e331	The representative Freddy André Øvstegård then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e336	Every morning, the working week through, lights up in the country's kindergartens before society has rubbed sleep out of its eyes. Kindergartens are workplaces for thousands of employees and the daily lives of most of the country's children. The small roles in the kindergarten are not in the same situation as the customers in the clothing store. Daily they are handed over to the power of others, to the priorities of others and to decisions in a completely different way. The consequences of the decisions may be large. That is why welfare services are not like other services, and it is precisely for this reason that it is important to ensure that money, public funds and parental benefits actually go to what they should, namely children. The kindergarten arrangement was a great victory for the commercial kindergarten owners. Until then, the law had separated between ideal and commercial kindergartens. With the kindergarten agreement, private kindergartens were to be treated as one group, leading to a large-scale opening of profit for commercial owners. Every year large sums of money disappear out of public-funded well-being. Commercial actors have grown up in many of our welfare services, and kindergartens have unfortunately become big business. For Red, it is obvious that we have publicly funded welfare services to serve the population, not for welfare professionals to make money. That is why, together with SV, we have proposed a number of measures to ensure profit-free kindergartens. The proposals should strictly be a narrow matter for the government to support. Common to many of the proposals is that the Workers' Party and the Centre themselves voted in favour of the same proposals when they were in opposition. It's urgent to change. Foreign investors have an enormous pace when they buy up in our jointly funded kindergartens, and then the government has to act even faster. Kindergartens have become highly attractive investment objects for foreign investors, and it is obvious that foreign buying-in funds have purely commercial motives for engaging in kindergarten operations. It is serious when an important part of the infrastructure of the Norwegian education system is owned by foreign hedge funds and is outside democratic governance. A new research report shows that private commercial kindergartens are now so large that they can gain political veto over the sector. Red fears that it will be too small and too late when the government presents the proposal for a new regulation, and to ensure that the small, single kindergartens are a profit ban necessary. They're part of the diversity -- the big commercial ones aren't. If we really want the money to go to the children, it's necessary to take the commercial problem at the root. Only introducing stricter regulation of the sector, as called for by several batches, would not be sufficient. Previous disclosures show that commercial owners adapt their operations and find new ways to collect profit. The kindergarten is for our children, not for welfare professionals to run a store.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e351	Half of all Norwegian children start in a private kindergarten. It gives children and parents diversity when choosing kindergarten. The combination of private and public kindergartens has contributed to today’s good childcare and higher quality in kindergartens in many places in the country. People are satisfied, not only the employees and the parents, but also the children are satisfied. We in the Left have, on our guard, contributed to increased quality and proper resource use in kindergartens through our commitment to a standard of personnel, a standard of education and a reform of competences for the kindergarten sector. Supervision, transparency and requirements have led to a very healthy sector. Our policy has worked. This proposal, on the other hand, has been promoted in order to cultivate the solutions and ideologies of the past. Such proposals are incorporated into anti-individualistic solutions. Such suggestions do not work. The proposals are unhealthy for social development. Where private entrepreneurs have relied on and laid the foundations for a diverse high-quality kindergarten sector, proposals such as this will reduce their societal efforts. Where children, parents and employees are satisfied, this proposal will have ideology ahead of diversity and quality. Further disappointing is that Red is not alone in such black paint and stamping of private kindergartens. We see that the government, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, together with SV, cuts into government grants for private kindergartens. The kindergarten sector is also concerned that the government is introducing measures to limit freedom to private kindergartens. The proposals could weaken the freedom of choice of parents and the good kindergarten offer we have in Norway. At the same time, I am pleased that the government parties and the government say no to these proposals from Red and SV. I hope that they also take the opportunity to adjust some of their course in the same question, because we have to ask ourselves the question: What is it that you want to solve societal challenges? I would like to take this opportunity to invite the government – the Labour Party and the Center Party – to a broader kindergarten settlement on the Stortinget, where the transparency and health that is now in the industry is recognised. I see that the government also sees that society also needs the private solutions and the private kindergartens, and I hope that the government is willing to look at the possibility of a broader kindergarten settlement rather than a policy that will add up to the liquidation of the private ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e364	I'm pleased to hear from the representative Raja's invitation to renegotiate. The 2003 Kindergarten Agreement was the beginning of a large-scale development of kindergartens and had not been possible without political ambitions, broad political commitment and a high level of commitment from people who wanted to start and run kindergartens. Full kindergarten coverage has given a better everyday life for very many families with young children. It has contributed to gender equality and higher professional participation. However, I am very much in agreement with the analysis by the proposers of the economic situation of private kindergartens and the need for regulatory changes. Several of the proposals are also in line with government policy in this area. We know that single and ideal kindergartens have a more vulnerable economy than kindergartens in groups. We also know that groups and kindergartens with foreign owners use more of the grants for rent and less of the grants for personnel costs. I'm worried about the high activity of buying kindergartens. It's a development I want to contribute to turning around. The money shall go to the children and the employees of the nursery, not to manage and operate property. In one area, we still disagree. The proposers want profit-free kindergartens. We want a strict regulation, but we also believe that private kindergartens must have the opportunity to have an operating margin. The objective is not to make large dividends for kindergarten owners, but to make it possible to run sustainable over time. This could be done, for example, by: is about building up some equity, which can again be used to make investments in kindergarten. As part of the budgetary agreement with SV, the government shall set up a public body to assess zero profit models for welfare services, including kindergarten. This Decision will be followed up by the Government. I would also like to point out that there is extensive government work, both in regulating private kindergartens and in changing the funding system for private kindergartens. I think we need to have a differentiated system of grants that is more effective at meeting the actual level of expenditure in kindergartens. These are also the representatives within the scope of their proposal. The government will improve the environment for small private and ideal kindergartens. We want a regulation that stops the development where large chains are increasingly owned kindergartens. We need to look for solutions that give municipalities more opportunity to control the private kindergartens, and in this respect we will continue to work with the Storberget Committee's report. Changes in the framework conditions may have a major impact on owners, parents, children and employees, and this work needs to be done in a proper manner, in good dialogue with the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e383	It's a little hard to figure out which direction the Council of State has. It's also an advantage, because it could be the basis for a slightly broader settlement than a compromise between the Workers' Party and SV. I hear the council say that she is not in favour of a ban on taking dividends. At the same time, the Council of State says that it should be possible to charge dividends for, for example: to invest in construction. Does this mean that the government is considering leading towards what any dividends may be used for, or is it such that the government believes that it is still possible to make a moderate profit on the money invested in a private nursery?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e388	I believe that we must have strict rules for both how we grant money, how kindergartens should be operated, and also good supervision of private kindergartens. But I don't think we should be naive either. Those who live by running private kindergarten must be able to do just that: live off it. I also think it is wise to have an approach where, in private kindergartens, we look at what we as individuals often do, saving money to, for example, be able to do. cleaning up a bath or investing in own buildings. I think we need to have the goal of having a healthy kindergarten economy where it is possible to run sustainable over time. Part of that sustainability is necessarily also about the ability to keep their buildings up to date. I really think more parties in this room have a lot to talk about and a good opportunity to agree on a broad settlement this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e393	I see that as a positive invitation and then find that the government does not want to impose a dividend ban. In comparison with SV, there is a proposal to determine how commercial operations can be phased out. What the Council of State says, I then interpret in the sense that one has not decided that it should be phased out, that this is more of an investigation that SV can use on a later occasion to promote their models, but that the government will not go in to phase out the commercial operation of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e398	In the budgetary agreement with SV, we have some wording on phasing out commercial operations in several welfare services. I think it's important to be aware that it's very different how the different welfare services have elements of private. It's e.g. the organisation of the nursery sector, compared with the level of private participation in childcare, school and other services. It's not a goal for the government to phase out the private kindergartens, it's a goal to regulate them better. Then there can certainly be shades of consensus between the parties also on the red-green side of this topic. The goal is that we get rules that make money work for our kids, that it's sustainable to run kindergartens, even the private ones, and that we provide a sector that's healthy, focused on quality and less focused on profits and large profit withdrawals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e403	As I was in my post, the government, together with SV, has adopted a cut of almost 400 million. kr to private kindergartens in the current year. As I also mentioned, about 60 pst. of the private kindergartens individual kindergartens, and we know that about half of the private kindergartens are either in deficit or in zero. My question to the Council of State is, what does she think a single nursery that runs in zero or with a deficit is going to have to do when at the top of not having any profit, in addition to getting such a drastic cut in the current year? What kind of alternatives does it leave to a single private kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e410	I agree with the description that some of the individual private kindergartens that are smaller have a too vulnerable economy today. Then the reference to the cut to the private kindergartens provided by the representative Gulati is a reference to what is called the pension supplement, i.e. the transfers made by the government to the private kindergartens to cover the cost of the employee's pension. That turn-on has been too high for a long time. This does not mean, however, that there cannot be any other part of the different elements that together constitute the financing of the private kindergartens, which are too low. For this reason, the government has been very clear that not only should we have an up-to-date legislation that harmonizes better with the reality of today's nursery and the way the sector looks, we also need to review the funding system, so that it gets better. The aim is not for kindergartens to go bankrupt or for kindergartens to have too small transfers to their pension costs. The aim is to ensure consistency between expenditure, revenue and the ability to operate well and soundly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e417	SV and Rødt propose amendments to the financial legislation for private kindergartens that ensure that tax and parental payments go to better kindergartens and not to take value to owners. In 2020, the Workers' Party and the Centre voted in favour of a proposal that read: ‘... amendments to the Children's Court Act, so that government grants benefit only the children, and that this money cannot be taken in the form of dividends for private kindergarten owners’. It is suspiciously similar, and it is entirely in line with what the Labour Party in particular has said in the election campaign. Nevertheless, the parties to the government are now voting against the proposal, which they have supported before the elections. I wonder if the Council of State can tell you what the reason for that is. Has the Workers' Party changed side of the case? Is it the government offices that have caused the party to look at it differently? Or is it the reason given by the Council of State — which is not correct — that this would prevent the possibility of having a healthy operating margin that can be reinvested in kindergartens? It's not the same as profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e424	It could be tempting to ask the representative back why not, when it is so clear and widely announced that there are new rules, rather can wait for them and discuss from them. It's also in this hall an commitment to own the proposals that are being promoted, and I suspect there's some reason why these proposals are coming now, just before the government will come up with new rules anyway. I'm in any case happy with the commitment. There's a question that hangs a little bit between the red-green parts, too, which is what you actually put in ‘profit-free’. I believe the goal must be that we regulate kindergartens in a way that does not result in profit. Then there is the discussion of profit-free or not a more theoretical exercise, because the goal must be that the rules of quality, of how to invest in kindergartens, and of how to grant the money, are so tight that profit never occurs. I think we can agree on this further and look forward to submitting the proposal to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e431	The vast majority of Norway, most of them, want welfare services such as kindergartens to be operated by non-commercial actors. Questionnaires conducted by Ipsos in 2016, 2019 and 2020 show that less than 30 pst. they consider it appropriate that commercial companies operate hospitals, care for the elderly, schools and kindergartens. Most people want municipal and non-profit actors to operate, and among the red-green voters – who have provided both a government shift and a political shift – the requirement is even clearer. If it's normal people's turn, we can't roll out the red runner for investors. I understand that the Council of State is very much in agreement with Red that the growing commercialisation of the kindergarten sector must be stopped. That it's urgent, there's little doubt about it, and like ordinary people, I'm impatient after change. My question to the Council of State is therefore: When is the start date for the start of work to phase out the commercial forces of the kindergarten sector? When can we expect the government to secure absolutely all the money for the kindergarten principals — the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e438	I can assure the representative that every day I work with different rules and measures to ensure that we get a healthy, good kindergarten sector where the money benefits the children. I believe that there is certainly a great commitment in Norway for welfare services to be on public hands. I'm glad, because I agree with that. But at the same time, I think we have to admit that once half of the kindergartens are run by private owners, the goal for all the parents who deliver their children in the kindergartens every day – I am one of them myself – must be that the kindergartens are the best, that the money works for the children, and that it is safe and good to go to kindergarten, whoever has a logo on the building. I agree that it is a goal that maximum welfare is on public hands. Therefore, the government also says that we should strengthen the role of municipalities towards the private kindergartens, so that the municipalities, for example. in the event of a fall in children's cots, the easier way to take over kindergarten places than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e446	I was a little uncertain about how the council decided to invite me to a broader kindergarten settlement at Stortinget. That's why I'm very positive -- I might not say surprised, but very positive -- that the Council of State is open to it. I look forward to the fact that the government parties and the parties interested in finding a broad settlement can sit down together and simply discuss in peace and at ease how this can be as best possible for society. Then I also know, after having been in dialogue with several representatives of the private kindergartens, that they are genuinely concerned about how this can work out. So I was actually going to ask a very open and positive question to the Council of State: can the Council of State say something to the many private people who are following excitedly on the Internet today, who can assure them that they have the right to life, that they belong in society, and that through such a settlement we can find the best solutions for them as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e453	I thank you for the question and would like to announce the following: The government's goal is to tighten the rules so that it becomes despicable what our money goes to, that we have quality for our eyes, and that the money works for our children. I am absolutely sure that the brothers of those who have an engagement within the private kindergartens today are occupied with. I also believe that it must be quite frustrating, for example. Being part of a larger chain, when you're doing ideal with small operating distances and really doing what we're doing in this room say we have a desire to do. So I also want to tell them that we're happy that they exist, and they're going to have good and healthy conditions in the future as well. We will update the legislation and review the funding system in order to improve this in the future. Finally, I would like to say that I am very happy to have the invitation repeated. I look forward to further dialogue with both the representative Raja and others in this Chamber, for the goal must be broad and lasting. We're going to have good babysitting in the future for all the country's children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e460	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e465	Wide settlement is a strength of Norwegian policy, and we can thank many historical events for that. Kindergarten is also too important to score simple points by hitting each other in the head of ideology. The fact is that a broad kindergarten settlement was made, from the political extreme from the Progress Party to the SV, to ensure child care coverage. In fact, private drivers throughout the country ensure child care coverage and diversity in the offer. Both babysitting and diversity in the offer are what we still want. Then the Center Party believes it is obvious that we also need private kindergartens, but we cannot take them for granted. There have been major changes since the 2003 orphanage agreement. Now we are facing national demographic changes and a decline in births. Children's playgrounds are being demolished, both in private and public kindergartens. At the same time, the demands and expectations of kindergarten services are increasing both from children, from parents and from employees. Good kindergartens are not a place for storage; it is a place for the growth and development of children in an important phase of life. It is a place where qualified and motivated employees put their souls in following up each and every child with challenges and mastering in everyday life. Policy framework conditions need to address and respond to changing framework conditions elsewhere. There shall be no room for large dividends from basic well-being as a nursery. There shall be predictability for smaller private kindergartens. The chains cannot add the list for the operation of the kindergarten at large. The focus must be on the content, offer and purpose of the operation, as well as the benefit of grants and parental payments to children. Now, the Arbeiderparti-Centre-Registration works actively and well to get the kindergarten policy on the right course. Neither the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party nor the Christian People's Party managed to clear up legislation or ensure calmness for Norway's kindergartens during the previous eight years. We are in the process of clearing up subsidies and legislation, but most importantly, we are in the process of introducing a new funding system. The challenges of funding mean that many lose the courage of even minor changes. Two-year follow-up and different grants from municipality to municipality, despite national norm requirements and leadership, are considered. The centre party is pleased that the bulk of the population is pragmatic and solution-oriented in this case. The development of good kindergartens throughout the country needs to be pursued in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e480	Kindergarten employees have really been on, even when conditions have been difficult. That's the main reason why people are most satisfied with their children's kindergarten. The nursery workers stretch far every day. I want to correct some strange claims and perhaps a collusion of terms. The first is: these are publicly funded kindergartens, it is the public that finances them. The reason why the offer exists is that we pay tax money that goes on to these kindergartens. What is the main point of this proposal is that money allocated to kindergarten should go to kindergarten. It should not be so hard to understand, but some people work very hard to misunderstand. It's actually a problem that so much of the money is allocated to kindergartens, goes straight into someone's private pockets. It is a problem that the international purchasing fund thinks that Norwegian kindergartens are so good for them that they want to invest in our kindergartens, they want to buy up our kindergartens. For they think – smart enough for them – that here there are public flows of money that can go straight in the pockets of some welfare professionals. We can't have it like that. The second is that private commercial and private ideas are not the same, and here I wish the Council of State were a little more precise in its vocabulary. There are no parties on Stortinget that have proposed that we should not have any private kindergartens in Norway. What we have proposed is that commercial kindergartens should be phased out, and there is a big difference, because the commercial ones are driven by profit motives. That's the whole point of being commercial, of making money, while ideals run non-profit. We need the ideal kindergartens, but commercials also blow the ideals out of the kindergarten sector. It's really just talk that all the money allocated to kindergarten is going to benefit the children as long as you let commercial operations in kindergarten services, because that's the whole point of commercial: they're going to make money. But if they're so busy making money, they're going to find something else to do. It is important that a red-green government, or what to call it – a Workers' Party-Center Party government – does not protect the welfare professionals. In the end, the populace will have profit-free kindergartens, and here it's important that it's the populace the government listens to. Now you've squandered too much out of the tube. Soon it will be too late to stop it, and so should the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e493	In the change of lines with the Supreme Court, the Council of State said that she could not understand why this proposal came when the government was already working on regulation. Then I can reassure the Council of State that this is a proposal that SV and Red dry dust once a year and promote every session. So if the minister is going to be sitting for four years, she will get the proposal three more times in this room. But what has happened all the times it has been promoted before is what is happening today, that it has not been adopted, or that it has been annexed to the Minutes. What worries me now, on the other hand, is that SV is going to have a hand on the steering wheel when it's going to be a work on regulation for private kindergartens, and I'm worried about what will come out of that work. Finally, I hear here that there are wide-ranging agreements, about the possibility that several parties can be found together, but unfortunately SV has moved strongly to the left over the last few years. One mentions in the notes, and so does the representative Waagen here, that one is concerned about the development of more and more kindergartens that come under the big actors. But then we have to look at and reflect a little bit on what's the reason why that's happening. And it's that there's a sector that's already been regulated, that's experiencing that they're being hunted in every context. It's a sector that has a huge deficit, that gets a lot of negative talk. They experience a cut in pension subsidies, cut in capital grants, and they remain in this room, such as: representatives of Nyholt and Aydar, referred to as welfare professionals, and the activity of these companies is suspected. Then we should not be surprised that some of them finally choose to give up and sell to a larger company. Another thing mentioned in the comments is pension grants, and I wonder what has changed in a year. Thus, in the context of the budget for 2021, there were 1 000 kindergartens protesting against cuts in pension subsidies, and in that fight, the Workers' Party and the Centre were standing together with the Progress Party in rhetoric. The centre party fully agreed with us not to cut pension subsidies. But now, when they've come into government, they're not just passing on from the government of Solberg, but they're fucking for a little extra and kissing further for private kindergartens. So I hope the debate stays a little longer, and that the Center Party can come here and tell you what has changed since the fall of 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e502	There is reason to clear up a little bit in the debate, and first to the right side of the crocodile tears for small private kindergartens. Is there anyone who has really been the leading victim of the large-scale commercial unification of the kindergarten sector in recent years, how large groups have settled down, it is precisely the small, ideal, often parental, kindergartens around the country. They're getting fewer and fewer, while the big groups are just getting more of them. It just goes beyond diversity, which has been a strength at our kindergartens. There's reason to wonder about the reasons of the government to go against in particular what you can call the main proposal here, i.e. to make sure in the law that every penny given to the kindergartens should go to the children's offerings. I'm glad it's working for incisions. SV and the government parties have agreed on several such measures in the budget agreement for this year, and further work will be done. But it's naive to think that there won't be a path, as long as large commercial groups are present in the sector. We've already seen that in e.g. the private school sector. As long as it's allowed to run commercially, and it's not quite clear in the law that you can't take profit, I fear these foreign funds will adapt. Nor can it be the reason of the Council of State that is the reason, because no one suggests that kindergartens should not be allowed to have a healthy operating margin, or that kindergartens should not be allowed to save money that they can invest in their building, for example. No, what we're suggesting is that it shouldn't be allowed to take out that money and spend it on something else. Finally, the Council of State mentions in the class struggle a third possible reason, and that's that you open doors, which were also repeated in the succession, so this is something the government is already going to do, it comes in the spring. I look very forward to the regulations that come then, and SV should be constructive in that discussion, but there is a different reason than the other two reasons that have been used, and the three reasons are not well connected. In any case, SV should continue to work to get through. What we've already done is the big investigation of zero profit models across our tax-funded well-being. It will also be important for the kindergarten sector. Then we get the facts on the table, and not least we get the concrete models to set up ideal alternatives to the commercial. In the end, I would just warn against going to the right side to make a so-called settlement in this case – a matter where there are such great expectations of the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e517	The discussion about kindergartens and how to operate welfare services in Norway is important, and it is a pity that it is simply being suffocated together. It is important that we distinguish between commercial and ideal kindergartens when we talk about the private actors. By referring to them using a large term, it is also very easy to accuse the left-hand side of suspicion. I can promise the representative Steffensen that we do not suspect the parents who have their children in commercial kindergartens, the kids who go there, or the employees who work there. There is an excellent job done by the employees, and I am absolutely sure that the children also have good days. But we have to talk about a few people earning a lot of money in kindergarten in Norway. We have a expectation that if it's going to work on a broad settlement, the government will choose to go to the left and not to the right. We share that expectation with the majority in Norway. It was those who made a political change after eight years of blue rule, and it would be a huge disappointment if the government chose to turn right and not left. That means, I hope, that we don't need to have this discussion over the next three years, but that we can actually start the work of phasing the commercial actors out of the kindergarten sector, because it's not about dust drying. It's not about bringing up old suggestions just to show them out. Nor is it about having ownership and being the first one out. It's about raising the public opinion – the demand from those who have voted for us all on the Stortinget. It is expected that our welfare services will be operated by non-commercial forces. They may be run by non-profit individuals, but it shall not be possible to make any profit on welfare. So there's a difference between profit and a buffer account. I've learned myself that I'm going to have three months' pay standing. I must admit that I have never had, but it's about security. As long as you're doing these concepts together, the discussion becomes quite incomprehensible. I think that's definitely the intention not to use the correct terms for the commercial kindergartens. The Red's goal is well-being for people, not for investors.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e530	By some representatives who have been on the pulpit, it has been drawn a picture of a government and a majority that has a completely different intention than what we have. Let me underline that we want a diversity in the sector. We want high-quality kindergartens, and we want low prices, so we can include more in the kindergarten community. The representatives of the Progress Party have underlined that kindergartens have been cut off from the grant. Yeah, that's right. But the one who suggested it first was the Progress Party-supported Solberg government, which proposed to lower the pension grant from 13 p.m. to 11 pst. The big government followed up by reducing it by another percentage point. I guess it's not one percentage point that falls the whole load, when we also have a report on a report that emphasizes that the pension grant has been higher than the real cost. In addition, I have to stress that we provide precisely those who have higher expenditures, by having a grant-based scheme where those who have actually higher pension costs can apply and get it covered. Do not let there be any doubt: I believe that a change in funding and regulation is absolutely necessary, precisely to create legitimacy. The fact that someone can go with significant profits, which can go into private pocket, while others are sitting with a tight economy, helps undermine the legitimacy of the entire sector. As Roy Steffensen said, the fact that others choose to go into chains only underscores the job that has not been done from this hall before. It emphasises that private, small, non-profit actors feel that it is demanding. We have to be there for them and provide just funding that allows them to stand on their own feet – ensuring a healthy economy regardless of whether you are stand alone or not. I think there is a broad consensus that we need to clear up the legislation and that we need to have a diversity. Then we have to make sure that the money benefits our children, that we have to ensure high quality. The position of the working party is established: parental and tax payments are intended to increase the quality of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e545	The fact that tax money should go to well-being, not to private profit, is a position that is both a ‘no-brain’ and based on the welfare state’s history, that we do not allow commercial welfare profits on the community’s money. It is also crucial to ensure that each crown goes to the best of the children and that we also ensure diversity in the kindergarten sector in the future. It is also the background that the position that Red stands for has massive support outside the population, and that the voters of the red-green parties overwhelmingly support the proposals that Red and SV are promoting on the Stortinget today. This is also why the trade movement is crystal clear and expects action from an Labour Party-led government. So it has happened that the policy of the Progress Party in this field, to release to the billionaires in the Community budgets, has been encircled by a close total expansion for 20 years. The Workers' Party and the Center Party have been ringing around the billionaires' profits for 20 years. It is now expected that the money will be seized to ensure that the profit party is over and that the money will go unabated to the best of the children. The principle that the Workers' Party is able to absorb in terms of child protection and school, namely no benefit, no profit, is very difficult for them to absorb in relation to kindergartens. But what is the fundamental difference between the five-year-old in kindergarten and the six-year-old in school – or the 14-year-old in child protection? In terms of all of these, we believe, and the plurality of choice, that the money from the community should go to the best of these people and not to private profit. Then it's interesting that the council speaks out of both mouths. On the one hand, in the rhetoric, there is great support for the principle that every red-green person naturally agrees to: ensuring that the money goes to the best of the children. But at the same time, the state council opens up a new kindergarten deal with the Right and Left, i.e. the most warm defenders of well-being. So I want an answer from State Council Brenna from the pulpit: how is she going to combine her warm defense for common welfare with a new settlement with the bourgeois parties? We deserve a clear answer to that in the debate here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e558	Now we have to bring the debate down a little, because there is no doubt that both the Red Party and the This is more important than cutting cheap ideological points. We're not served with high temperature in the debate, which some people contribute to, and we can't cut all kindergartens over one comb. It's extremely exciting how people run kindergartens in Norway, and we have to weigh our words when we talk about people who have laid their soul, their lives and everything they own and have, in being able to drive kindergartens around in Norway. These people deserve respect and thanks. In autumn I visited, among other things. Solsida Kinderbete in Gran. It was an inspiration. It's a popular kindergarten. They have a higher adult density and a higher pedagogical density than the municipality, up to 80 pst. kindergarten teachers there, because it was very popular to work in that kindergarten, which was something quite different than very many other kindergartens here to the country. But they were worried, because when a driver was going to retire, the other employees weren't necessarily quite sure if they were going to dry up on the investment side, if they could know that they got back what they put in. One thing is money, but the drivers set up for the kids far beyond what you can expect, and far beyond what a person with an 8-16 job does in society. These people burn for their children, and they burn for the offer they have in their nursery. We can talk about the election results. There was a change of government, and it became a strengthened center section, among other things. because welfare services are to be close to people, they must be good, and they must respect the fact that local conditions are also involved. Private kindergartens, smaller kindergartens, individual kindergartens are an essential part of it. Now we celebrate in crickets and hooks to clean up after the half-made work of the previous government. It's about getting legitimacy and changes over time. Transparency must exist, as the representative Sanner himself said so well. The PBL was among those who said that the pension grant is too high, that it can be covered per bill, but that it also needs to be taken into account in the parts of the funding system that are underfunded. I'll promise all kindergarten drivers that we're working on getting to. It is also about how we operate public kindergartens; it is clear how the money is spent, that it benefits the children, and that they ensure good kindergartens throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e570	I would like to start by replying to the article from the Workers' Party on the Progress Party. The progress party fought against the cut to private kindergartens when the proposal came from the Solberg government. We were lucky to have turned it upside down in Stortinget. We are also standing up for the private kindergartens now and hope that the Workers' Party and the Center Party will make sense and turn the direction they have gone into. It doesn't make matters any better that the new government takes the bad cut from last year and makes it even bigger. I will recommend everyone in the committee and in the room today to visit private kindergartens for the next few weeks and see and feel the concern that very many feel out there now for the future of their kindergarten. There are many firefighters and entrepreneurs – people who responded to the call of those who were sitting in this room 20 years ago and who asked to set up and start kindergartens – who today feel like a betrayal, unfortunately, when they abolish the non-discrimination of public and private kindergartens that have been the basis for a well-functioning kindergarten policy in Norway for the last 20 years and that have produced results. There are many of the countries around us that don't have full babysitting. We succeeded – precisely because we received equal treatment for public and private kindergartens, and we got an interaction that gave a large-scale expansion of a few years. For the Progress Party it is the content and quality of everyday life of those who both work and go to kindergarten, which is most important, not who drives them. And I think it's something to take on and think about how many of the private kindergartens in Norway today have both higher satisfaction and lower sick leave, even though they get less funding than the public kindergartens. It shows that there is something about this interaction and this competition that has worked. I am not surprised that Red and the representative of Moxnes once again take their ideological fight against private actors to the Stortinget, but removing the non-discrimination of private and public kindergartens that have worked well in Norway in recent years is a dangerous road, which I fear will rage a well-functioning private kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e583	I had never thought that in a debate about profit-free kindergartens I should go to the pulpit in Stortinget and say that I fully agree with Björnna Moxnes. This does not apply in substance, but in the need to clarify whether the government intends to go left or right. I think that this room deserves to know, and that the sector needs to know if the government has seen a cooperation with the Bears of the Moxnes and Red – or if you're going to try to make a broad deal with the parties that, after all, have been united in about. 20 years of age and ensuring that cooperation between state, municipality and private kindergartens has become the successful welfare reform that it actually is. Just to clear up a little bit in a description of reality that goes back to the theme cut on the pension, as the representative Gulati said, that even though the Solberg government made a cut out, the Progress Party in negotiations made sure to reverse the cuts, because we were concerned that we should look at the funding system in a whole, as the representative Knutsdatter Strand said, of course, they should take care of it. But if they agree with the problem description that there is underfinancing in other areas, you should wait with the cuts until that review is ready – not do what the Centre Party is doing, make sure that you actually increase the cut, that you cut even more. So it's, in terms of the reality description, so when the representative Waagen says it can't be exactly the small percentage point extra that breaks the industry, I'll recommend her to travel around and visit private kindergartens. In connection with the round we had for approx. A year and a half ago, I traveled and visited a number of kindergartens that are running short, or that have little profit, and that showed in detail just how much the 2 percentage points could lead to. So now the Labour Party and the Center Party are proposing another percentage point. It's dramatic for private kindergartens. I fear that the policy now being pursued will lead to even more small private kindergartens selling their business to larger actors. Then we get into the situation that we in this room don't want, because it will lead to even less diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e592	The government's aim is to tighten the rules for private kindergartens, so that quality is put at the centre. I feel that there's a broad commitment to it in this hall. But there's also something that's unclear about what's in the prohibition of profit. Does it mean, for example, the prohibition on making wages if you live with it is driving a kindergarten? Does this mean that it is not possible to have an operating margin? In that case, I think it will be difficult to get both private commercial and private ideals to continue. The goal cannot be that Stortinget will make rules that will ensure that good private kindergartens are laid down. The aim must be to operate in a way that is beneficial to young people and to control the money that government transfers to important welfare services. The cut in the pension premium was announced, and it was also included in the Solberg government budgets. The mark-up was too high – it is already well documented. Then I say at the same time that we should go through the funding mechanisms we have, to provide better funding. I am sure that when we do both at once, namely have clearer and stricter rules and review the funding system, we will have a better balance in this further. So to the discussion of conciliation: I assume that the bourgeois parties who say they want to discuss solutions have read the government statement first. Then it is that if someone wanted to discuss solutions after seeing the government's starting point, it would be alarming if I refused to do so. The goal must be broad solutions where possible, and we must agree on what we agree on, and rather separate layers when we cannot agree. I'm a fan of fresh debates, and I also like exciting rhetorical points, but I'm actually stronger followers of good kindergartens, I'm stronger followers of quality in kindergartens, and I'm stronger followers of stable running and well-being than I am of that we in this room use the forces to distance ourselves, perhaps also at a point where I'm sure there's a lot to agree on. The aim must be high-quality kindergartens, where we develop a diversity in the sector, do not contribute to further speculation, large purchases and the lack of popular control of the transfers we make. Then I actually think there's a lot that can agree on a lot, and then we might also want to separate layers of something.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e603	Call it what you want, but it's a principle that's very unified on the red-green side and not least among the voters and the trade union movement, that our tax money should go to well-being, not to private profit. I think that's a good word. If they're big, they'll let others know, but that's a good word. It is also a good principle for our welfare state, which has been in force for very, very, very many decades – long before we got the Progress Party's progress march in welfare policy, with the pediatric agreement, which was an breakthrough for a new principle, namely that commercial drivers should be allowed, and not least large gains from well-being. It was something new. Until then, even the bourgeois parties in the center went against the commercial operation of well-being, because, as they quite rightly said, we are going to make sure that the money goes to the best of the children, not to enrich any commercial owners. I can read up three numbers to put it in perspective. One is 2.7 billion. kr. That's what Adolfsen-Gutta in Norlandia has been hoping to sell out their kindergartens to an Australian pension fund. The second number is 4.25 billion. kr. It was given to the owners of the Learning Workshop to sell out their kindergartens to private funds in Sweden. The third is 4.6 billion. kr. It was given to the owners of Trygge Barnehager when they sold their kindergartens, also to a Swedish fund. This is the reality behind the beautiful words of the right-hand side about diversity and well-being entrepreneurs. So there are huge profits that are very often based on free or cheap plots, given by the community, that lead to billions of assets for the few. In such a situation, a government and a state council must make a choice. It's whether you're going to be faithful to your own promises, your own basis of choice, your professional movement and the majority of people you've got behind you, or if you're going to keep making soup in the center with your right, where you're still opening up to commercial ownership in the kindergarten sector. You've done this for child protection – it's very good. In part, you have made it clear when it comes to school – also very well. But you argue for some reason in the case of kindergartens. I can promise that we will follow closely what comes from the government – not just us, but hundreds of thousands of red-green voters and not least members of the Trade Union, the Federation of Education, the people who notice the commercialization of the body. They expect something completely different from the current government than what we had from the previous, bourgeois government. It'll be exciting to see what's coming. The talk of reconciliation with the right forces and the bourgeois promises not well, but we'll see, and we'll give it a chance when it comes. If it's good, it'll cheer, and if it's bad, we'll get it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e616	Freddy André Øvstegård has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e621	There is reason to respond to some ambiguities that I believe the government itself is helping to create around what these proposals, which are well debated over many years, are about. No, despite the question being asked several times, having an operating margin is not the same as taking out profit. Having an operating margin that remains in the kindergarten is used for new toys and other necessary ones is not to collect values. It's that the values stay where they are. And no, wages are not profitable either. Had wages been profitable, we would have been a great nation of welfare profiters. Fortunately, we are not. It's also something else. What I'm sure is that during this four-year period we're going to get to the cleaning up that is necessary to ensure that every single penny we give to the children goes to the best possible kindergarten. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e630	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e647	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e654	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation on this proposal. Today, we are going to discuss a proposal for a representative where there is a great deal of agreement on the overall objectives, both inside and outside this Chamber. A reform of secondary schools that takes seriously the challenges in school and the challenges faced by young people is something that more parties have addressed. The government has already announced in the Hurdal platform that a reform of secondary schools should be implemented, and although there is a strong consensus that we should carry out this reform, there are enough disagreements that will become apparent as we discuss how it will be implemented. But right now I'm going to focus a little bit more on what we're agreed on. In Norway we have a good school where students perform well and thrive. The most important task is to equip the students for the future and the further education cycle, this is essential for the skills and skills that they take with them. Therefore, it is also necessary to aim for reform to contribute to improved quality in school, a better transition between secondary and secondary education and increased motivation, well-being and security among students. In implementing such a reform, it is also important that we include those who have knowledge of the sector: the parties, school owners and especially the young people themselves. Children and young people shall be involved in shaping the reform process. Although things are going well in school, there are also developments that are worrying and require answers. Studies show that the motivation of young people falls particularly during high school years. Therefore, it will be a fundamental task of a secondary school reform to ensure that the school becomes more relevant and motivating to the students. Young people are getting a lot of knowledge about how young people are doing, and young people themselves are warning that increasing mental health challenges have become stronger in recent years, and that school pressure is an important cause. This must be clearly addressed in a secondary school reform and the aim must be to reverse this trend. For the Labour Party and the Government, it is important that we succeed in this reform – and now I am moving on to things that are more important to us, for these parties. We need more qualified teachers, a stronger support device and a stronger team around the students at school. The government has announced a trust reform that will give public sector employees more time to carry out the jobs they are assigned to. We need a more practical school of practical learning, because we need to recognise that children and young people learn in different ways, and this also needs to be emphasised in school education. Schools must be provided with frameworks for practical learning. Students who experience that they are the strongest in their practical skills and abilities must also learn to do so in school. Now time has gone a little fast for me, unfortunately, but I look forward to a good debate on this, and then I get to redraw.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e671	At the Højres national meeting last year, Erna Solberg announced that Right will carry out a secondary school reform. The proposal we are discussing today has received broad support, and I am pleased that there is an overall education committee that announces the renewal of high school, a reform that should be knowledge-based and developed in cooperation with the parties, school owners and students. Over time, a number of measures have been implemented that will provide positive opportunities for secondary education. Vocational renewal will have a major impact on secondary education and content. With the new curricula, there will be more room for professional immersion, and more subjects will have more explorative and practical facilities. The initiative on early and continuing training for teachers will also have a positive impact on secondary education over time, and from 2019 there was also the possibility of a practical craft as an electoral subject. The work now being done needs to build on the actions undertaken in recent years in primary school and the completion reform that is now to be implemented in secondary school. It is important to see the context throughout the education cycle. Much goes in the right direction in school, but high school has some special challenges that need to be addressed. Students who start high school have very different professional qualifications, and there is reason to ask if high school is able to compensate for this. In fact, many students leave high school with poor basic skills. There are also significant gender differences in student outcomes. The motivation and experience of mastery fall in high school. Absence is too high at secondary school, and secondary school does not provide students with sufficient preparation for further education, especially towards vocational education. The years at high school are a breakup period for many students. During these years, a lot happens to students, both professionally and socially. So we have to think completely when we're going to renew high school, in line with the overall share of trade renewal. Youth school is also to prepare students for further education. If we are to achieve the objectives of the implementation reform, we must be even better able to raise those students who are below the critical threshold in basic skills. Absence must be reduced, and more students must be motivated for professional subjects. The Education Committee is united in the desire for a secondary school reform, but we are sketching different paths to the goal. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left believe that a party-based sample should have been set up. It would provide a better basis for anchoring and open debate on this important reform. I take up my own proposal and hope that several parties gather about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e686	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e691	I just want to start by saying that in line with the Committee's position, your partners will be involved. Nearly 200,000 students take place in classrooms at the youth level daily. The statistics show that one in five pupils falls away when they enter high school. All the last time the Central Party was in government, we reported that re-introduction of the electoral profession in high school and less academic education would improve the motivation and learning of the students – thus reducing the drop-out. The introduction of the electoral profession was a milestone in the development of youth. Youth school has been the forgotten school in many ways, with the least motivated students. The juvenile data studies show no improvement. As a result, the drop-out in high school comes when students move up with both lack of learning and low motivation. The previous red-green government made school everyday more practical and varied, with the introduction of eight electoral courses in secondary school. The goal was for the students to choose a subject in line with their interests. The center party was a big pusher. The right then criticized the red-green government to bet more strongly on what they called kosefak, while the students didn't get rained, written or read enough. Criticism has repeated itself and is almost ritual. But now the Right's answer to your own policy is primary school reform. It is hardly the case that electives go beyond basic subjects in line with students' own interests. On the contrary, it can help to increase the understanding of theoretical subjects, and motivation is a prerequisite for learning at all. The right has now spent eight years in government without any enthusiasm after high school reform. Now they're exaggerating, but the reality is different from what the Center Party has. Terping, testing and hours are not what ensures a better high school – on the contrary. Now, the Workers' Party-Center Party government will have a comprehensive reform of secondary schools that sees, hears and responds better to the needs of young people, in the light of the time in which we live. The pressure is rising from all sides. Students shall experience the support of teachers, teachers shall experience the support of their managers, and school leaders shall experience the support of authorities and elected representatives. Of course, with trust reform as a starting point, the parties should be involved. Students are involved, and the reform is not to be crammed into curricula and assessment work, but to be well integrated into the school’s broad societal tasks. I am looking forward to a more active and practical school, where students experience more mastering and meaning they can take with them further in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e706	We in the Progress Party support the proposal for a reform of secondary schools. Although there has been a lot of positive progress in the field of education over several years, challenges remain. The results from, inter alia: PISA and several other studies show that, unfortunately, we still get fairly moderate results, despite Norway being in the top level of OECD resource use per pupil, and we have relatively high teacher density. The Progress Party will also underline the importance of better education for Norwegian students in the real world. Real science has had a major impact on the construction of our economy and many of our most important industries, and we still need young people and students with a high level of real science. At the same time, we also need more good skilled workers in order to remain a sustainable welfare society. In order to achieve the goal of more skilled workers, we need to establish closer cooperation between school and working life and greater flexibility in vocational and vocational training. We should also learn from good examples around the country, where we have managed to get young people straight from high school to train skilled workers in the professional field. Among other things, I can mention the Steigen model, which started in 2014, where both local businesses and the municipality are strong drivers in such a process. We should encourage and stimulate more such actions and howl and learn from those who do well. I'm also worried about the high level of youth absence. There is evidence that every seventh student of the 10th grade is away from school for more than three weeks. About 9000 students in the 10th grade are away from school for more than 15 days. This creates difficulties and challenges for those involved, with transition to both education and working life, and is something we need to address. We therefore believe that such work should also look at the possibility of an absence limit, but with the necessary flexibility and adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e723	We have a good school in Norway, but the motivation for the students falls, especially in high school. Too many students feel that the school is not relevant to their everyday life and to their future education. As motivation goes down, stress and pressure in high school increase to a steady rise in new records. It shows, among other things: The juvenile data studies. Students are stressing with new tests and tests and whether they get into whatever school they want, and they are more concerned about the future than before. It's the phase after eight years of bourgeois governance of knowledge policy. Then it's pretty clear that we don't need more right-hand school, and that we don't need more rigid absenteeism, as the Progress Party just called for in high school, or even more testing and pugging. What we need is a more practical and varied education at high school, which is more relevant to students. We need more comfort for better learning, no more stress, pressure and testing. What can that mean in practice? Yes, for example. more time, space and better equipment for the practical and aesthetic subjects. There is too much unsuitable space and equipment for these subjects. We also need skills requirements for teachers in practical and aesthetic subjects, as for the other subjects. This could mean getting the professions more involved in secondary education through several practical selections, more cooperation between schools and more professional competence into secondary education. However, the more important it should be to provide teachers with the tools, time, trust and competence needed to add to more practical and varied learning methods in classrooms. It can not be solved by directing and controlling centrally, but by inviting the teachers and doing a proper development work over time. In addition, if we are to succeed in such a reform and in making school more practical and varied, it is absolutely necessary to solve the teaching shortage. We probably need qualified teachers in classrooms with time to see each student and adapt the teaching, and we need more resources into the student team. I am very pleased that the red-green parties agree on an alternative proposal with a clear order for the government to reform high school – for a more relevant secondary school that motivates the students, instead of more testing, pugging and right-wing school. Then, of course, such a reform needs to be developed from below and up with a clear perspective, both from the employees at school and not least from the students themselves. The time has come to bring solutions down to a sector, to the needs of employees and students, and we believe that in EN is the first step towards a new and better school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e734	All these reforms that came and went, I didn't know that was the very point of the education system. I have to admit that I thought for a very long time in high school as the three years between high school and high school. It was when the seriousness came in, in terms of grades, exams, new class, new rules, and high school became something that I and quite a number of students before and after me were just going through before high school. However, the secondary school has its own independent role and affects important and normative years for young people. While meeting new demands as a high school student, these are also years when young people work to get to know themselves, find their place in the group and challenge borders. For Red, it is important to work for a school with a focus on learning, well-being and motivation and with more room for practical and aesthetic subjects. «Dictity analysis feels like a stranglehold on my appetite for learning. Why is it not possible for a person who will become a mechanic to learn more about this already in high school?’ This was written last year by the school student Øivind. I agree with Mr Oivind. It is important that the school has room for all kinds of talents, interests and people. For too long, the school has been theoretically oriented. At the same time, we tell a lot of young people that their strengths and ways of learning are of no value. Everyone is talking about that we have to bet on professional, but that actually means that we have to bet on practical and aesthetic subjects throughout the education cycle, not just in high school. If a school reform is to promote practical skills, the prerequisites for it must be in place. There must be tools, halls, school kitchens, art and craft spaces, etc. If not the teachers are left, once again, to carry out a reform without the prerequisites in place. But varied education costs more. The government has notified a review of the quality assessment system with the intention of reducing the scope of testing and screening tests in the school. It would be unfortunate to start a separate high school reform without seeing the whole system in context, because the increased testing and monitoring that you have seen in school over the last 20 years has imposed an additional workload on teachers. Teachers spend more time reporting than before. Professionals must have time and space to exercise professional judgement in dealing with the diversity of pupils and learning situations. Red listens to the students and teachers and wants there to be less time for testing and more time for teaching and to be with the students. Maybe a reform away from the test regime will bring back the many thousand teachers who have finished in the classroom. Red is concerned that a secondary school reform is going to become another reform that is going down the school from above. The school is already in the midst of a reform, the renewal of the profession, and it is different how well the new curricula are implemented. Secondary school reform must be based on the basic consideration of what is best for young people to learn in the long term, not on the short term performance of politicians in order to obtain good opinion measurements.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e756	With three kids in high school, I am aware that more students in high school feel that they do not have the right or sufficient challenges, and several express that they are bored at school. The lack of freedom of choice and subjects suitable for each student also makes the secondary school less good for each student than it should be. At the same time, the challenges are propagating for the weaker students. Much of the drop-out that happens gradually in high school may be related back to a secondary school that could have been better adapted to the students. That is why I am pleased that, just as the Left in the last year agreed to adopt a completion reform for high school, with more flexibility and more adaptation to the individual student, similar reforms for high school. That's good. We in the left believe that it is also good that they we have put around professional depression, greater freedom of choice in the trade, the right to follow up and the right to complete high school now seems to be carried over to other parts of the school. There may be more motivation if students can choose more subjects themselves. That some of these subjects can be more practical and free in form is also an advantage. We in the Left support the design of a reform of the secondary school system. For us, it is important that the professional weight, the security of teachers and students, the rights and the freedom of choice become an integral part of this reform. For our part, we also want to include all the input from teachers who want more time for teaching and to create relationships with students rather than completing forms and documents for school management and school owners. We need to find a good solution to this reform. Strong relations between teachers and students, between students and in the college of teachers can create strong professional and social protection and a strong professional and safe school where even more people feel safe. The left's job is to make sure that the reform gives us this. The liberal principles of freedom and responsibility should and should permeate all schools in Norway. As the Left has several times ensured that this has been the case up until now, we will also in the future ensure that the freedom and security of the school environment is maintained. This is how we get the best possible school for everyone in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e770	The government will build a stronger public common school, which facilitates inclusion, mastering and qualification. We have already announced on the Hurdal platform that we should bet especially in high school, and I am pleased that the representatives also see the need for this youth initiative. I would like to remind you that when the Right went into the government offices, they took over a high school assignment from the red-green government. So when they're out of the office again, a high school assignment is one of the first things they're suggesting. Either way, I think it's good if we can achieve a broad political consensus on a high school initiative. It's good for Norwegian school. We know from the Student Survey that students' motivation for school is falling in their early years, and there has been an increase in the proportion of high school students who are bored and who are horrified to go to school in recent years. The learning outcomes have been essentially stable, but we see that too many leave school with weak results. We also know that low-quality primary school students have a lower starting point for qualification through secondary education. Being a youth is about so much more than just being a student. Youth is a turning point with new experiences and experiences. The vast majority of young people will face new and unknown challenges both at school, at home and in the company. Over time, the juvenile data survey has shown an increase in self-reported mental disorders among Norwegian teenagers. This is an example of a challenge that needs to be addressed in school everyday life, but that the school cannot solve alone. I believe a youth initiative should have a broad approach to the everyday lives of young people, both at and outside school. We need to facilitate broad interaction between different professional groups, organisations and institutions meeting young people in different arenas. The government is engaged in building a continuous 18-year-old kindergarten and training course and creating good transitions throughout the course. We know, for example. that many young people are coming earlier in puberty now than before, and that many of the challenges at youth level are also present in the middle. I therefore believe that a youth investment should include both middle school and youth and also look at the transition to secondary school. School is an arena where young people will learn and develop in a motivating environment. They shall be able to build a secure identity and good relations. At the same time, the secondary school shall prepare the pupils for both vocational and preparatory education programmes in secondary education. I believe that if high school students get more practical learning in all disciplines, and if they experience a better connection between theory and practice, they will have a better basis for further education and professional choice. I look forward to working with and listening to those who are close to the youth and the youth themselves, and having dialogue with all parties on how best to develop a reform of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e791	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e796	Governments are trying to create the impression that our government did not implement measures that are relevant to high school. That's wrong. Both further training of teachers and, in particular, professional renewal will play a major role in the development of secondary education. The youth school has a high self-esteem, but the secondary school also has to prepare the pupils for further education, as the Council of State has to do, and that is, among other things. two critical points. One is too high in the absence of a large student group, and the other is linked to the fact that a very large student group has so weak basic skills that they will have challenges to complete. I do not expect unambiguous answers before the reform work has started, but could the Council of State say something about what she thinks about what is most important in order to get the absence down and the level of basic skills up?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e803	I did not try to create the impression that nothing had been done for high school in the previous eight years, but I tried to say with all clarity that I am pleased that the commitment is now somewhat intensified in working with this particular age group. To the debate on absenteeism: I think we need to separate a little bit from how we work on this with high school students, who are 13 years old when they start, and the debate on absenteeism in high school, which I feel maybe the Progress Party is not particularly good at. I also believe that we have a lot to do about school-home cooperation. We know that many parents let go of their kids more freely the older they get. I also believe that by working more interdisciplinaryly, making sure that we have more practical teaching, letting the students expand across different subjects – and by doing so also motivaters to learn more in the individual subject – we get a bit on the way. But I am concerned that I am not sitting today with all the answers. I'm busy listening to the sector, and to the young people themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e810	That’s good – it’s also in the unanimous setting today. I am also pleased that the Council of State has drawn attention to the transitions, and it is also in the Training Act that we need to have committed cooperation between high school and high school. I also agree that an absence limit in high school is of little relevance because there is a right to go to school, but there is a need for a better follow-up on absenteeism. It is a major concern that small problems can grow. It may be related to challenges outside school, but it may also relate to school relationships. So my question is whether the Council of State will now take lessons from some of the good experiences that have been made, among other things. in Oslo schools, where early school leave has been taken up to ensure greater attendance, so that students are followed up in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e815	I am absolutely sure that we have a lot to do when it comes to working with attendance at school, which is, of course, the issue of absenteeism. I think it's done a lot of good in a lot of municipalities on this topic, among other things. in Oslo and several places, where strengthening around the student has been very much in focus, and where it is an objective in itself to attract more professionals into school. I also believe, as the representative is concerned, that we have a lot to do when it comes to working with other people working with young people around the schools, not just at school, and I also think – once again – that we have a lot to do when it comes to drawing parents closer in. There's a reason students don't meet at school. There may be complex reasons, but some of the core is that they have to be motivated to go to school. Then I think we need a more practical and varied day at school. I think we have to recognise that the young people themselves certainly have some things to say about what's going on in order for them to thrive better, and I also think that the Stortinget is going to work well on this in the meantime and together is able to create a reform that sees individual young people better and sees the transitions between levels well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e822	It is good that the red-green parties agree that there should be a reform of secondary schools, and that – at least about – there should be a direction for the reform, with more practical and varied teaching, among others. One of the concrete actions pointed out by the majority in the examination of this case is the educational selection advisory service at secondary level. The Council of State said that the transition from high school to high school should be part of the reform, and that is very good. This is when the counselling service is incredibly important. We know that that service today has varying quality, and we are constantly hearing examples of how competent students who want to find out about their profession are told by the counselling service to go to study preparation. I also do not expect any conclusions from the Council of State yet, but I wonder how she sees fit that we can improve the quality of the counselling service at high school as part of such a reform per now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e829	I am pleased with the question, because I share the representative's commitment and concern that the guidance service and advisory service may not be as good everywhere. I have therefore asked the Directorate for Higher Education and Skills, which is the Directorate responsible for the career guidance, to look at how this can be done better. I also believe that it is an important part of the preparation for a secondary school reform that we do what we can to improve the guidance service. I think that part of this is also about a more practical and varied day-to-day school, which will introduce several ways of working for the students in the past. This may mean that students who today discover no sooner than when they first have to make the choice of which line to go to higher education will be able to discover that they are interested in other ways of working than what they are being introduced to today. I think that with a more practical and varied day at school, maybe more students will also be able to discover that they have talents, abilities and commitment for several ways of working, and I think these things must work together for the best possible day at school for our young people who also prepare them well for further work and professional life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e836	Thanks for the answer. I think that the way to think about it is also a good way to think about it, to introduce more ways to learn, more types of subjects in high school, is just one of the more practical things that should be about. The government parties and SV agree that a secondary school reform should contribute to more practical and varied training, and then the practical and aesthetic subjects we already have in school become important. The Workers' Party has previously supported SV's proposal here at Stortinget to introduce skills requirements for teachers in the practical and aesthetic subjects, as for the other subjects, in order to improve the quality of that training. I wonder if the Council of State can come up with some preliminary reflections at least if it's still a good idea to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e843	At least I don't want to rule out that we can have a discussion about it, because I think it's wise to have a claim for both employees and teachers in several subjects. At the same time, the discussion of completely explicit requirements in a single subject has also brought some challenges to how we formally say that a teacher is qualified or not qualified to teach in a given subject, but that this may be part of the discussion about a secondary school reform, I am absolutely convinced that is wise. So I think we're going to humbly go into this, ask the young people themselves what they mean, talk to those who work very closely on the young, and try together to develop a high school that's better for those who go there, the students. I remember that Erna Solberg in 2009 guaranteed that there were better PISA results with her as Prime Minister. Today, some years later, we see that this was not the result. I think that kind of promise is unwise when you go into this work. Rather, we need to work together, identify the problems, look at the solutions and together develop the high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e852	I have already revealed today that I am impatient, and that is because I am impatient on behalf of high school students and all those who are going to be high school students – perhaps also on behalf of those who have once been. Young school years are too many vulnerable years, as the Council of State has also been in it. Experiences can be involved in shaping how we perceive ourselves, and being tested and mapped out from pretty square standardised systems doesn't necessarily have to be the best way to do that. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State shares Red's view that it is important to start working through the quality assessment system when looking at a reform of secondary schools. In addition, the so-called reserve force of teachers — all those who are educated but not working as teachers — states that spending more time in the office than in teaching or in meeting with the students is one of the reasons why they chose not to continue working as teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e858	I am glad that Nyholt's representative is impatient, but at the same time she will quote herself, as she said a moment ago: "All these reforms that came and went, I didn't know that that was the very point of school policy." I guess it was the coin of an experience there that we can sometimes make political decisions that may not be entirely in line with the reality you're trying to solve in the individual classroom. That is why I am concerned that we are developing this reform together with the sector. It's an commitment to how we evaluate and evaluate the individual student's efforts and how much he can do in the individual subject. That commitment I think will continue no matter how we're going to land that it's also being solved for high school, but I think it's natural to have a discussion about it in the light of the innovations, in the light of the fact that we've solved this relatively equally over very many years in Norway. I look forward to that discussion and am absolutely sure that there will be great commitment, both in this hall and outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e865	I think it's a less interesting political change of words about what your government did, and what my government did, so I really want to challenge the Council of State to look a little bit ahead. I think that if you were to generalize high school students down to three groups, there are especially two groups there's reason to be concerned about. One group, which is also the strong group, is those who often come from a little well-established home, who have parents with good education, resource-intensive homes, and they perform very well. At the same time, they're a little wasted, and they're saying that they're bored in high school and they're not getting the skills they need. On the other hand, there are students who do not come from resource-intensive homes, who like to fall through a little, and who can also cope with other types of challenges psychologically. In Norway, we depend on both groups to manage, both for themselves, in order to feed themselves and get a good life, and for Norwegian industry, for entrepreneurs, in order to compete out there in the world. The question to the Council of State is: how can it be ensured that both of these groups come through a reform of secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e872	I think it's important to listen to those who go to school. I think it's important to listen to those who work with youth. As I said in my post, I am concerned that being a youth is more complex than being just a student. I think we need to have an approach to these young people that makes it possible to be a student is doing in an ok way, while we know that the teens can be strenuous for many and everyone. I think that the representative Raja is in the middle of the core given some of the people we're going to listen to, namely those who have children in school. What are parents saying that they need, in order to contribute to better home-school cooperation, for example.? I think we need to listen to the students and the professionals around. I think we need to look at how we can attract all the different bodies that work with youth, get more professionals into school and strengthen the team around the individual student. Of course, we also need to focus on professional matters. It's supposed to be good teaching. It is also possible that students, rather than what they are doing today, will be allowed to choose something more, as they will only begin to select individuals to some particular extent in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e879	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e886	This summer I visited Guttas Campus, a very intense learning camp for young people who experience school as a challenge – six hours of reading, billing and writing instruction every day, clear boundaries, mobile bans, but a lot of care. It was inspiring to see how it was possible to lift students who are initially discouraged and about to fall from. It was fully possible to do so without prioritizing education in basic skills. It should also be noted by the Center Party and SV. The last time we had our own story about youth was in 2011. Then it became, among other things, introduced several hours in elective and a new occupation. The intention was good, but evaluations do not suggest that these measures alone have increased students’ motivation or skills in reading, writing and billing. Real motivation and learning joy in school everyday life are not only created by offering alternative subjects for a few hours a week or by removing grades and having fewer surveys and less information on how the students are doing, nor by weakening the expectations we have for students who perform weakly in subjects such as Norwegian, natural sciences and math. I also dare to say that describing a form of learning as practical, nor is it a magic formula for increasing motivation or learning outcomes. It is essentially about the quality of teaching in the subjects that the students have every day, and the most important is professionally strong teachers who use different forms of teaching that are perceived as relevant and meaningful in the subjects, while providing students with concrete and learning-promoting feedback. It is essential that the teaching material and work tasks are adapted to the requirements of the different students and that students are given the opportunity to deepen and explore the subjects. Then it's important that the teachers have high expectations for the students. We know that from research is particularly important for students like this. have decisions on special education, or which perform poorly. There is a lot of a secondary school reform should look at, but I will venture to lift four areas. One is another form of absence follow-up than we have today. There are too many differences in procedures for recording, preventing and monitoring high levels of absence. The second is reading training in several subjects at secondary school, how much indicates that today youth has weakened reading endurance, and that the focus on good reading training is weakened later in primary school. Then we need a high school that prepares more young people for vocational education. Then it may be worth reviewing the trade and hour distribution, among other things. Then we have to get better at customized training, and then there's a lot of different ways to look at it, whether it's a change in today's special education or more alternative learning venues. I'm very pleased that what was the big right promise, for which we went into this four-year period, namely, a high school reform, is being passed on today, and I'm concerned that we are building on the foundation that has been in recent years, with strong teachers' skills, to succeed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e899	For the government, it is important to get even more children and young people through school. It requires effort at all stages, from kindergarten and out of high school. The studies are clear here: the motivation of children and young people falls particularly in the early stages, while the professional differences increase. That is why I am pleased that it is precisely these years that the government has launched through the Hurdal platform that we should take an extra look at. So I have to say that it's a little bit interesting that a few weeks after it was launched in the Hurdal platform, the first thing is a disfellowshipped government does, to promote a similar proposal itself. Nevertheless, it is probably quite clear here in the Chamber today that we disagree on what such a secondary school reform will entail. For us in the Center Party, a reform of high school is about making progress in these years and that we are going to create motivation, well-being and mastering and thus also create a desire for learning. Then the answer is not greater demands and more theory, but that you have to pay attention to the fact that students learn differently and are different. We introduced electoral discipline last government period. So it's possible that I'm the only one here in the hall who actually got to take part in that offer in retrospect, but I'm going to say with my hand on the heart that I was probably not the only student who enjoyed me until Friday 12:00 when I could actually spend time and energy on something I liked, which also made the rest of the subjects a little easier the same day. My school is not the only example of it. For example, we also have Vardheia Youth School, which is built as a professional school with a workshop, kitchen and restaurant, where the aim is to strengthen students' motivation. Or take Gausdal secondary school next to Lillehammer, where the students can choose practical craftsmanship, and say that these hours make them feel mastering in an otherwise theoretical schoolwork day. Now, when we're going to take a new approach, it's important that we take a closer look at these concrete examples. What has worked, what has not worked, and what are we going to build on? In the Hurdal platform, we call for the strengthening of the practical-esthetic disciplines, but we will also look at how we can strengthen the counselling service, how we can strengthen the role of teachers, and not least how we will build up on the other challenges that young people also face over these years. And more important than ever, these changes take place with the sector, because at a time when we've had a lot of work pressure, it's more important than ever that we build up and not build down. I look forward to the further work and see to it that together we will continue to develop the secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e916	It is gratifying to see that there is a broad consensus on the need for a secondary school reform. Time may show that we're putting something different into it, but for the Labour Party in government, it's important that we promote students' motivation, well-being and learning, and that we are now using a secondary school reform to reduce social differences and increase implementation in high school. In the Hurdal platform, we state that we need more practical learning, and we point to the fact that we focus on practical skills, on strengthening the provision of continuing training for teachers, and on giving the opportunity to choose more practical disciplines. So questions are asked from this pulpit about offering practical training is a magical recipe. No, it's not a magic recipe, but there's some of the most important skills we see inside the glass ball when it comes to what we're going to equip our kids and young people with to cope with the work that's coming. The Ludvigsen Committee and the OECD point out what it is that we need to give our children and young people to survive in the workplace. There are four competences being developed, and under point one, on professional competence, the practical subjects are being developed, and here we have to equip our young people with some tools to withstand the future's working life. Providing this to our young people is important in order to create mastery and motivation, but it is extremely important to ensure that you are equipped for a working life in the future. Having completed high school is becoming even more important in order to get a regular job. Almost all young people in Norway start in higher education, but after five years, there is one in five who has neither a diploma nor a diploma. Although the decline has gone steadily downwards, we cannot be satisfied with the fact that 13 000 in each coal do not complete. Some did not get the follow-up they needed, some lack basic skills, and some are among those who should have received a different offer. Youth school reform must help to equip our young people to master high school and to increase their implementation. Of course, a secondary school reform should be based on the renewal of the profession. We must ensure that we are able to maintain both trust reform and close cooperation with the sector, and that this is based on good expertise when we are about to chisel out the important years ahead in high school. I am pleased that the government is already working on it, and I look forward to what we are going to do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e927	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e946	For almost two years, the pandemic has affected children and young people, students and students through varying degrees of infection prevention, home school and quarantine. Many students and students have lost professional and social meeting places and have not achieved the learning and development they would normally have had. Students who start high school until the fall have had more than two out of three years in high school under the pandemic. Many people may feel that they have lost important years of youth and meet less professionally prepared for high school. The same applies to young people who will start higher education in the autumn, and to primary school students who have never experienced the school's 17th May train. The schools and the teachers have made a huge effort throughout the pandemic. Many have gone a long way in facilitating as much normal education as possible and in caring for the most vulnerable students. But there is little doubt that children and young people have paid a high price. We don't know enough about the final consequences yet, but this is one of the most worrying aspects of the pandemic, which needs to be addressed in both a short and a long-term perspective. I hope the government will continue to gather knowledge about how the measures have worked, both the measures to protect the infection and the compensatory measures, such as digital home school, from which we can learn when it comes to providing students with good and varied education. On the way out of the pandemic, we have to make sure that we take back school every day. There is reason to be concerned that too many students will be a great transition back to a normal school day. Many students have acquired knowledge gaps that can grow larger. It will be very important to capture students who are in arrears, and to put the effort in place as early as possible. It is important that the municipalities and counties as school owners put this high on the priority list, and that plans are made at national and local level for students to resume professional and social learning. A normal absence follow-up of pupils both in primary and secondary school must be part of this. A working group set up by the Solberg Government and chaired by the Director of Education of the State Manager of Oslo and Viken, Grethe Hovde Parr, presented the report ‘School after the Coronapandemy’ before the summer of 2021. The report has gained insight into the consequences of the pandemic from several sources, including the Corona Commission and a number of research reports. The report pointed to some main challenges. The main challenge is the lack of membership of the professional and social learning community through increased solitude, a weakening of mental health, a decline in motivation and mastery and a worrying absence. Main challenge two: Some pupils and groups of students have been particularly hard hit and have experienced, among other things, reduced quality and scope of special education, fewer hours of language training and attenuated teams around the student, more difficult school start-ups and transitions, lack of basis for advanced and lost practice training. These are challenges that stretch widely and have had different degrees of impact depending on restrictions and infections in municipalities. Therefore, the follow-up to this high level of local adaptation and priority and follow-up of school owners and school leaders also requires. From the day one of the pandemic, the message from the Solberg government was that children and young people were to be given priority first, and that they wanted to set up funds so that kindergartens and schools could offer as normal an offer as possible. Both in 2020 and 2021, earmarked grants were granted to facilitate the return of children and young people to lost learning. This offer was proposed further in 2022, but cut by 10 pst. in the budgetary agreement between the Government and SV. I do not doubt that the Minister of Knowledge shares the problem description, but the follow-up of a waiting-and-see attitude is for the time being marked. So far, there are no new measures, but the cut in the funds for follow-up has been continued, despite billions of allocations in crisis packages to other groups. The absence limit in secondary schools has been raised until the autumn and it is still assessed whether the examination should be cancelled this spring. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is what plan you have, both in the short and longer term, to ensure that children and young people can resume professional and social learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e967	I agree with Mr Sanner's concern and description and share his commitment. The last two years have been special to all children and young people and those working in the education sector. All have been through one or more periods of schooling, home schooling and digital education. Many have also been reduced for periods by shorter opening hours in kindergarten, half days or half weeks in school due to yellow and red levels of action. It may be surprising, but the statistics from national samples, primary school scores, score points and study scores show preliminary stability and few traces of the pandemic in the results. Although it's initially a pleasure, it's not something I think we can settle down with. The government assumes that the pandemic has had major consequences for many of the children and students, and that the consequences can be even more evident in the years to come. As the representative Sanner points out, we have received several reports documenting the negative impact on children and young people as a result of the measures taken to prevent infection in kindergarten and school. There is research evidence to suggest that the pandemic has reinforced the differences between children and young people, that social differences can grow, and that some vulnerable children and young people have had more difficulty. In school, we know that it is more difficult to make practical and varied instruction on screen, and many students report less learning and motivation. We also know that the quality of life and mental health of children and young people can be reduced by isolation and lack of physical activity. At the same time, it is part of the story that some students and their parents believe that they have managed relatively well. For some students, part or all of the training has been carried out under various infection prevention measures and with a large proportion of digital education. Students have experienced loneliness, lack of motivation, concentration difficulties and mental problems. In an NIFU study, the Nordic Institute for Innovation, Research and Education, which was carried out in 2020, a large majority of students and academic staff at universities and higher education institutions believed that students would learn more with teaching on campus. This morning, NOKUT, the National Quality Education Body, presented the 2021 Study Survey Survey Survey Survey. It shows that students are generally satisfied with the study programme they are going on, and that the coronary apathy has affected this only marginally. Responses suggest that institutions have mainly done a good job of countering any negative consequences of measures targeting the university and higher education sectors. Nevertheless, it is obvious that the pandemic has affected the social and professional learning environment of the students. A majority of students experience online education as less good compared to physical education. A clear majority of students are also aware that online education is less motivating than physical education. It was therefore important that last week we changed the courses for universities, colleges and colleges, so that the students could once again get a more normalised day of study and a better study environment. The big government has increased the municipal framework by more than twice what the Solberg government proposed. In 2022, the growth of free income is 2.5 billion. kr more than the proposed budget of the Solberg Government. It gives the community sector greater scope for action to follow up children and young people and the consequences the pandemic has had for them. The government is also clear that we cover municipalities and county councils' additional costs from the pandemic. It includes expenditure on temporary work and overtime work for employees in schools and kindergartens. It's important in the future, when we know that sick leave is going to continue to be a challenge. Although I trust the municipalities and institutions in higher education, we should not borrow back and leave responsibility for follow-up to the municipalities and institutions. That is why we have now embarked on a major effort to identify how the pandemic affects children and young people, and how we can best compensate them. We are now gaining knowledge of how the pandemic is affected by age, residence and social background. I have given this on my own behalf to the Education Directorate. Knowledge of the consequences of the pandemic measures in kindergarten, for the youngest students, for young people and for children and young people who are vulnerable for various reasons and in a vulnerable situation is essential to ensure that children and young people receive the follow-up they need in the years to come. In addition, it is important to know the impact of the measures already in place in order to see what works best in the future. In addition to the extensive monitoring I have already ordered, we will of course also follow statistics through the Student Survey, national tests and regular reporting by the government administrators. I also look forward to further discussing with Stortinget what we can do in the continuation to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e992	It is good that we agree on the description of reality – that children and young people have paid a high price. Fortunately, there are also some points of light, but there is no doubt that many have lost a lot of valuable time. This applies to both professional and social learning. It is good that the Council of State has asked for more knowledge, both of how the measures have worked, of both infectious and compensatory measures, and of how the pandemic has turned on children and young people, but we lose a lot of time if we do not use this spring to close knowledge gaps. It is now absolutely essential that schools, universities, colleges and colleges return to school every day. This means that the work of sealing knowledge gaps must start now. A new report cannot be postponed until action is taken. After all, the government started this work of cutting down on the appropriations targeted at kindergartens and schools, so that you could resume lost learning. I am also concerned that the government has put the absence limit on waiting until the autumn. There is no reason not to start now with normal absenteeism in both primary and secondary school. It is also worrying that the left-hand side is pressing to cancel the exam this spring. It is important that the school now takes back everyday life, and that the work on sealing the knowledge holes starts up. Right, with the support of other bourgeois parties in Stortinget, has also called for us to have more summer school. It was very successful last year, when the government set up 500 million. kr, which gave children and young people both professional and social, with play and learning and new experiences. I would like to challenge the Council of State to take initiatives towards the school owners to now start monitoring the consequences in their own municipality and to put in place plans to close knowledge gaps. I would also like to challenge when the Council of State will launch the government's efforts to close knowledge gaps and ensure that children and young people can resume both professional and social learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1005	As the representative underlines, and as the report of the Parr Committee pointed out, it is very important that the students experience belonging to the professional and social communities. Therefore, I hope that we can agree on the most important thing first, namely that schools and kindergartens can now take a more normal everyday life back. I'm worried about the sick leave, which I'm afraid puts limits for a few weeks for children and young people, because there's just too few adults at work, even for children who have to be home from school because they themselves are infected by the corona. But let there be no doubt that we will follow this closely. I'm, like the representative Sanner, concerned that we don't let the time run from us, that we take action as quickly as we can, and I know that the schools are working very well on this. I also know that the municipalities have a great commitment to getting an overview and putting in place measures where it can be compensated for both lost professional and social learning. I am also concerned that we know what works, and that we know who is affected by the measures, and in what way. Because there is a difference between experiencing not being able to have the freedom to play with whom you want, or being with whom you want to be because we have strict rules for the protection of infection, and identifying which subjects – in what way, which students – you might be following, in the future. Therefore, we have to do both at the same time: we have to provide the most normal everyday life for children and young people, and at the same time we have to follow closely what measures we need to put in place to ensure that the pandemic does not have more consequences for the professional than necessary. So I think, in terms of the discussion of both the absence limit and the exam, that we should be a little careful to say that it is easier or more difficult for the right or left side to decide that we cancel or conduct the exam. The question of whether we conduct the exam is about the core of what Mr Sanner is also concerned about, namely how we spend our time as much as possible. I have received a clear recommendation from the Education Directorate. I'm not going to push the government's conclusion on whether or not to conduct the exam, but what's at the heart of the question is, how do students get the best social and professional out of this school year, when we know how many people have been in action for so long? We need to get them both social and professional, especially out of this school year. I don't think this is the last time we're discussing this. I also don't think that any of us can advance here and now what will be the very best measure to put in place, but I have great confidence in the municipalities, and I have great confidence in Stortinget, and this we will discuss in the future. So I'm going to start by taking in the knowledge that I can, and then we're going to put in action when we know what works.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1022	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Sanner for the interpellation. It is clear that this is one of the most important things we are doing now, to children and young people as well as to everyone in Norway's society. We're all vulnerable to a pandemic. Two years of pandemic have really done something to us, and my personal experience as a mother and an adult in such a society is that it's very impressive. The representative Sanner pointed to children who have never experienced 17 May trains. I have a four-year-old who doesn't know what it is anymore, and he doesn't know what it means to go on a babysitting day. So the social for our youngest children is also important when we look at measures to solve the challenges of a pandemic. But I also have young people who go to high school, and there are many in society who have, and the professional challenges they have met through the pandemic, have both been positive for their development, and negative, by not having gained experience and doing what they normally should do. And what should a society do to meet these challenges in the short and long term, which the representative asks for in his interpellation? We don't have all these answers today. That's exactly why I'm very happy that the Council of State points out that there are requested numbers and knowledge about how and what should be done to children and young people. Today the study barometer came, and it showed what our students are responding to in these studies. Surprisingly, the results are rather old-fashioned. It's not as bad as we might have imagined. I was also listening to NOCUT's presentation today early, where Crina Damsa, the Vice-Chancellor of the Faculty of Education, spoke about her research around the transition from analogue to digital education, and what challenges lie there. This is about knowledge, about how to learn and about quality – not about what is my teens' biggest challenge in the pandemic; how to train them to become Russian, because social is also a challenge. But what Crina Damsa actually points to as very important is that learning is not something that happens individually. Social learning is taking place, and there are major challenges. That's why I'm very happy that the State Council for Higher Education was quickly out there and removed the meter in higher education institutions, so that normal education can take place there. It's clear that when we're going to learn, when we're going to be students, it's different to participate in a digital arena than in others, and the most vulnerable are struggling. But my point is that we're all vulnerable to a pandemic, and that's why it's so important, the Council of State Brenna points out, that we need to get the right knowledge to do the best measures. So I know, as former rapporteur and to drive a municipality through a pandemic, that there are already a lot of good things going on out there in the municipalities. If there's something our municipalities, our school owners and others are burning for, it's finding the good measures and the good solutions to help the most vulnerable students. I look forward to working in the Storting and in our committee specifically to meeting the challenges for vulnerable children and young people, but also for all children and young people in getting well-educated and getting the opportunity to practice having a good rush.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1039	In recent years, I have met teachers in Oslo School who have had to tell crying students that once again they were going to quarantine in very small apartments and with large siblings. I spoke to a principal who could tell me about a student who was sitting in the bathroom during the Teams lesson, because it was the only place in a small apartment he got peace. Then I joined a Teams course with professional students, where there were many black screens, high absences and very difficult to get the relevant, varied and practical vocational training that students require. For the past few weeks it has occurred to me that while the numbers of infections have taken place, many young people and children have been in good health at home because of quarantine rules, without demands for follow-up and school education, for quite long periods. It's really very intrusive, when we know that education is a fundamental human right. I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that it is now possible to assume that there have been negative consequences for the students. Yes, there are many who can also tell us about positive experiences in digital education, and the teachers have worked hard to get it done. But there is no doubt that many of the reports we have so far point in one direction. In particular, I would like to bring out students who have been given decisions about special education, pupils at primary school, in the small step, which now fall into basic skills. We know that there is a gap in knowledge that is propagating, and also leads to a lack of mastery. Then we have students with high absences, and eventually we have professionals. Two years of lost learning on this plane don't go by itself because traffic lights have become green instead of red, and a very clear strategy is needed. So I know that we have a decentralised school structure, and that it's the municipalities, like school owners, that have a great duty to follow up. But the government can also show the way. The government may, for example: choose to strengthen and not cut support for schools that have been severely affected by the pandemic. It is possible to reintroduce the threshold of absenteeism and introduce clear guidelines for the follow-up of absenteeism at primary and secondary school. It is quite alarming that we have many municipalities that do not have an overview — nor do we have at national level — of invalid absenteeism in Norwegian school in recent years. The government can further cooperate with the municipalities to strengthen the efforts of the next few years for the students who are left behind the pandemic, to use screening tools in a good way to follow-up schools with support, to provide intensive training to students who are dependent on basic skills, and to arrange summer school and other non-school courses for primary school students. It can also be considered to be an introductory subject for students with weak grades from high school in Norwegian, math and English, who also proposed the Song Committee as a more permanent scheme, and to have an extra offer for students starting in 8th grade with a large knowledge gap. In other words, you can focus in particular on the vulnerable transitions between kindergarten and school, kindergarten and high school, and across to high school. I also believe that the government must be very clear to the municipalities that you should extend very far, for example. to have temporary workers present, to have emergency plans when there is a high level of sick leave, and that it cannot be used as an appeal point to send students home for digital education. I'm a little afraid that we're now almost used to having a backup plan with just cutting down on teaching time, or that students should be more at home when school and the system can't go far enough. There must be the last emergency solution, for again: Education is a basic right. I also want to warn against meeting young people who have missed a lot of learning by weakening our professional ambitions and expectations. I sincerely believe that I think it permeates some of the arguments against the exam, which I hope the council will not listen to. It has, for example, never was a contrast between having an examination and an assessment form and learning, for which Udir argues. I also think it is surprising that Udir does not check how many schools and municipalities actually set their positions later in June, and in how many schools and municipalities it was actually just a previous summer vacation, although it is the feedback from a lot of students. It's going to be a long-term work ahead, and it's going to require us to go further, and some people are talking about the students' case and the students' basic right to learn. An active school owner must monitor the location and follow-up of schools with support and resources. So I would say that the pandemic has also shown, is that the most important thing we do for good preparedness, is to give proper priority to school over a long period of time. For example, in Oslo School, it is clear that the pandemic hit harder because over two to three years, a lot of the support equipment had been built up, and there were several students who did not. It is also better prepared to ensure that you do not have pupils who fall away, even if unexpected events occur in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1060	Three school years of pandemic are soon behind us. Even now, in this school year, the spread of infection — and infection prevention measures — has been significant. It is good that we have debate today. In areas with high levels of infection and severe local interventions, this has had — and has — a major impact on the school life of students, while in other areas, training has been almost normal. What is certain is that national youth has by no means been normal. Valuable and exploding years of large personal growth and development have been overtaken by uncertainty, fear of infection and concrete disease prevention measures. For teachers and families, the working and life situation has been reversed. Whether there has been a leave from a job or home office and home school about each other, things have not become what you saw. The motivation, well-being and learning of pupils and students and the practical implementation of education are put to a serious test. Fairness, non-discrimination and final assessment have not met expectations. At the same time, we know that people have worked hard to facilitate students and students and ensure progress in learning. The report The School after the coronary apathy points to a reduction in membership of the professional and social community as a consequence of the pandemic as a general challenge. This can hit students who already had a weak connection with the school extra hard. The report points out that different education affects those students who have had the most difficulty performing from before, and that the pandemic can reinforce differences in school. It's still too early to see the long-term consequences of the pandemic. We know little about learning outcomes and implementation yet. Therefore, I am glad that the Council of State warns that we should get more knowledge about this. At the same time, we know that learning, motivation and well-being have been greatly affected and too many have been weakened. This was also seen in the study barometer that was presented today. The budget agreement for 2022 put in place $216 million. to improve the capacity of schools and kindergartens to resume lost learning and social development. Areas that have had high levels of infection received more than areas with lower rates of infection. Schools in counties and municipalities received funds that helped to meet the costs of facilitating fast shifts in infection and employment. 170 million. The aim is to improve the quality of education and social care for students. At the same time, the work of following up is not over. The way children and young people continue to feel determines what action is needed. Different instances have to contribute. Some groups of children and young people are particularly vulnerable under the pandemic. The Parr Group proposes and supports measures to re-establish lost professional and social learning. At the same time, it points out that more people become ‘vulnerable’ because the infection situation persists. The Workers' Party-Centre-Registration will strengthen the team around the student and the early multidisciplinary efforts with, among others. child and youth competences, environmental workers, environmental therapists and school health services. When social differences have increased during the pandemic, we also know that there are impacts in children and young people's learning and mastering in school. Cooperation between kindergartens, schools and other services shall address needs and compensate for social differences. In order to enhance the competence of the team around the children and students, a level of competence in special education and inclusive practices has already been set in place for employees in just kindergartens, schools, PP services and other relevant services. Municipalities must have sufficient competence to prevent, capture and follow up all children and students, including children in need of specific organisation. The provision of further training in special education for teachers in kindergarten and school is reinforced by 50 million. DKK 2022, combined with the provision of further training in practical-esthetic subjects to several teachers. Measures to help students regain lost professional and social learning come to the fore. The government continues and renews the coordination group that from April 2020 has looked at the service provision of vulnerable children and young people under the covid-19 pandemic, but now the service provision of all children and young people will also be considered. The pandemic has affected the quality of training, but to different degrees. Students have therefore had different training frameworks and will have different basis for final evaluation this spring. Students need extra follow-up in order to keep up the progress of their education and to have at least as good opportunities for the future as former pupils. The government will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1088	We've been through two very special years soon. There have been two years when the world suddenly turned its head around – even though I need to say that it has probably been worse elsewhere in the world. Today we're going to talk about how this has affected children and young people and students, and it's important that we talk about just that group of people. I myself worked as a pedagogue at the beginning of the pandemic and used the beginning of my work day to divide the outdoor area with a barrier band – yes, with a barrier band in the nursery. We discussed the risk of suffocation against infection. It was the new everyday life. We also had to plan when we were going to do – if we didn't, the cohorts didn't go up. That means how much coffee can you drink? I have had children who have been disappointed that their cohort was once again assigned the football field as the only outdoor area, because there was one and a half meters of snow. The reality of our children and young people and students has been different around the country. But what's been in common is that it's been unpredictable. You don't know when the next time you got quarantined, you almost didn't have the courage to plan birthdays or Christmas, May 17, etc. – this despite the fact that employees in kindergartens, schools, universities and colleges have gone a long way, and they have both to ensure that everyday life is as normal as possible for children and young people and that education is as good as possible. I have seen people teaching from the laundry room with a sheet, and I myself have participated in Teams meetings from the bathroom, because it was the only place that was possible, etc. – creative solutions have been found. But we know, as the interpellant also mentions, that this has cost, and it has cost a lot for our children and young people, and not least for the students. Now that it might look like if everyday life is going to normalize something after the corona, it's pretty important that we restore the assumptions for learning, because learning happens in the relationship. That's the most important thing we're doing right now. It's not to close the learning holes, as some politicians seem to be particularly concerned about. Safety, predictability and recovery of masters' beliefs and apprenticeships for children struggling for the corona are crucial. For a child who has lost faith in his own mastery during the pandemic, it is only harmful to fill in several hours of adult-driven learning situations. It's just going to be more of what's missing in faith in its own abilities. More monitoring of additional school education is not the answer. It gives the impression of a view of children as passive containers to be filled with knowledge. Words like learning pressure enhance the impression. There is more pressure from the outside, and the stock will be filled up faster. But it's not like that. It's an action based on an old human vision, and it's done. We have to make sure that our children and young people and students have faith in the future again. And then we have to assume that we want to bring with us these two years. We also have to assume that the pandemic revealed that we had a welfare state that was not rigged for a pandemic. We need to increase staffing in kindergarten and school. We can't demand temporary workers if there's no temporary workers to put in, we have to make sure we have enough staff in kindergarten and school. We need to strengthen the health services of students, and we need to ensure that municipalities have the resources, resources and muscles needed to provide their citizens with the best possible service. For Red, it's important that we get out of this pandemic with a plan to build the welfare state. The pandemic has revealed that the safety nets are too fine-skinned, the holes are too large, and too many fall through. We have to make sure that we have enough employees in kindergarten to endure illness periods, that we have enough teachers who have time to meet the children, not only in terms of learning and challenges related to reading and writing, but perhaps also concerns if Mom or Dad have been outsourced, or you haven't seen grandma or grandpa in a long time. Learning is complex. In addition, we have to bet on our students. We need to work for more low-threshold services and health services for students, so that they can also have the security of the relationship needed to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1105	For almost two years, we've been living with infectious disease control measures. These have left us well through the pandemic, but they also have a cost for the growing generation, both professionally and socially. It takes the Workers' Party and the Center Party for the most part. March 12 two years ago is a date that goes into the history books, and as Korona-russ in 2020, I'm glad that we had no idea how long this pandemic was going to last. We were probably many high school students who went home that day and were a little happy that we could have a few days at home that was a little quiet, and we were happy that we got to work a little from home. Little did we know how much this would affect our youth, and the youth of those who came after us. For the pandemic has reinforced the issues we had in school and in our youth from before. It was easy to see how some months with home school made the withdrawn students even a little more withdrawn, how those who hung a little bit after professional, were hanging even a little extra after, or how a rushing time with the number limit made those youths who didn't feel included were involved in even fewer things. That is why I am pleased that the government has now taken hold of its first 100 days. For it will mean something for the social when the appropriations for lowthreshold mental health services in municipalities are increased. This will mean that more money is allocated to Nav, so they can start work on following up young job vacancies, or that voluntary teams and organisations are now getting full VAT compensation, which can help them create activity on the way out of the pandemic. And as interpellant demand, it also means something to the professional when the municipalities now get over twice as much increase in free income as they would have gotten with the Solberg government. It gives the municipal sector greater scope for action to follow up children and young people in the years to come. In addition to that, we've allocated 200 million. kr in the autumn for the follow-up of the professional in the municipalities which have been particularly vulnerable, and the student relations, vocational schools, colleges and universities now receive SEK 170 million. kr extra to follow up students, both professionally and socially. For my home country, Trondelag, the clear speech of the numbers is clear: NTNU gets 14.12 million. Extra kroner. The student relations for Trondheim, Ålesund and Gjøvik receive 9 million. kr extra, and the technical schools in Trøndelag receive 1.2 million. kr. extra. These means shall be used in consultation with the students where they see local needs. That very word, ‘local’, is an important clarification, because we have to recognise that even if we see the same challenges in large parts of the country, a pandemic that has hit different needs different measures. The Parr report, to which several representatives also refer, emphasises exactly this. They argue that we should build on the good development work that is already being done in schools and kindergartens, and they also place great emphasis on the local school owners and school managers who know what measures are relevant to them. The government has confidence in that, while we're going to follow them up closely in the future. Finally, I just have to say that I am stunned when I see that Right among other things. suggests that getting back the absenteeism limit is the great answer in the future. There is little understanding of the situation of both pupils and employees in the daytime, for schools that to date have not been infected, now experience having more infected people in each class every single day. FHI reports that four million could be infected in the next few months, and that it could be up to 20 pst. sick leave. The reintroduction of the absenteeism limit, which is probably a disturbance in all that mess, is unnecessary, and it is disturbing the sector, which does not benefit the students. Because I think the schools now, employees and students, need predictability, they need time and space to actually do what they're going to do, spend time at school and spend time building up the social once again -- not on more reporting or on queueing at an already overburdened firm. In conclusion, I just want to say that we in the Centre Party and the Labour Party are going to do our utmost to ensure that the government continues to deliver for the youth, because the way out of the pandemic we're going to do our best.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1124	This debate has been more serious than many other debates in the United Kingdom. That's good, because kids and youth have no time to lose after almost two years of pandemic, home school, disease, quarantine and lack of social arenas where they can meet friends and other adults. At the same time, I am delighted to see what enthusiasm children and young people are going back to school with. They are happy to come back to school – certainly to meet friends, but also because, I think, many have a desire to come back to a normal learning situation. As I also said in a previous post, I am pleased that the government is asking for more knowledge, but the desire for more knowledge, both of what has worked, of what has not worked, and what to do now, must not be an excuse for not taking action now, for many of the students who now have the spring in front of them are going to a new school to fall. Then someone's going to go to high school, others are going to go to college, and there's a serious danger that what's a knowledge gap today is going to grow bigger if you don't take it. I am absolutely sure that many municipalities have been pleased that the government has increased the allocation of free revenues, but as a former municipal minister, I know that good results are needed, an interaction between the municipality and the state is needed. There is also a need for targeted action and targeted resources in this area, with demands and expectations for school owners, in order to monitor them. That's why it was a bad start when the red-green parties, in cooperation with SV, cut the appropriations that were supposed to go back to lost learning. It is also regrettable that the government did not support the initiative for summer school, which is also a good offer for children and young people. Now I hope the Council of State will inform you that the government will soon come up with measures, that a clear marshall will be given to school owners to take back school every day. And yes, it also has to include a normal follow-up of absenteeism, both in primary and secondary school, because we also know that if you've been away from school for a long time, the way back can be very long.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1138	Let me start by thanking you for the interpellation and debate. There have been references to the Parr report on several occasions, and it is true, as the representative Grøthe also pointed out, that some of the most important things that are underlined in the report are to support the important development that is already being done. However, one of the other things on which the report was clear was that it was introducing new measures, such as: Summer schools were demanding to follow-up in practice. Therefore, I think we should be a little sober about what new measures we are making, and rather seek more knowledge about how we can strengthen the important work done outside the school already. The representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde's description of how difficult it can be to follow home school, I share. I think it's under-communicated how difficult it has been for many students. At the same time, I think she is wrong when she describes the follow-up to the absence of students because we do not have an absence limit. It falls on her own unfairness when the representative says that she is concerned that students are at home in isolation, and at the same time believes that the absence limit should be reintroduced now. It's important to calm around the students and our schools now. I don't think we're going to create noise at fast shifts and by going away from the promises we've had that the absenteeism is taking a break out of this school year. To sum up, the government is increasing transfers to the municipalities. We are making use of the means to follow up documented challenges arising from the pandemic, and we are systematically monitoring the consequences of the pandemic for children and young people. I'm not mentioning this with knowledge acquisition, especially because the representative Sanner is asking for it, but also because we have had several rounds of generous compensation schemes in other areas that have proved to be wrong. We must not allow this to happen within school and kindergarten. The Parr committee points to some of the challenges that probably already existed in school. That is why we need to strengthen the good development that is being done out there. We need to strengthen the student, we need to make sure that students who have the right to special education get it, and we need to make sure that municipalities have the framework to follow up all of this. In addition, I believe that we need to follow closely the experience we have gained so far. I would also like, on the occasion of this debate, to send a great and genuine thanks to employees in schools and kindergartens, who have been in a difficult situation and who have gone enormously far in order to make difficult working days for the most important of us, namely the smallest, as good as possible. Then I look forward to continuing to discuss how we can make life, both socially and professionally, the best possible for the younger ones among us also in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1153	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1171	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to raise an important issue and an important debate – and thank you to the Council of State for presenting this debate. The desire of the government parties to reverse the Gulf is about the belief that tomorrow's challenges will be met with the solutions of the past. We in the Right believe that it holds with two levels of government in Norway: state and municipality. But once we have a large county municipality, there are no good reasons to replace it with three new county municipalities and three new county administrations. Several administrations do not solve the challenges we face, and do not ensure better school or public transport in the Viken. The report that was ordered by Viken clearly shows this. The reversal could cost up to half a billion dollars, and services and environments of expertise will be weakened. Old Eastfold and old Busherud will have a worse economy, and the report also shows that it's going to be a consultant tree by reverse. I have to say that the Center Party, which has shown its scepticism to consultants for eight years, now ends up conducting a reversal where you have your own reverse consultants. Three new county municipalities are three expensive and poor solutions that will weaken the welfare offer to over one million people. Minister of Foreign Affairs Anniken Huitfeldt and former County Council in Viken and current Minister of Knowledge Tonje Brenna have previously participated in a decision against reversal. Both Huitfeldt and Brenna took seriously what the report shows, that the citizens of the Gulf do not get better from a reversal, rather on the contrary. They probably took it seriously that we should rather close the knowledge gaps in the school after the pandemic, strengthen integration, expand public transport and build county roads. But something has happened between one representative meeting in Akershu's Labour Party and the next. What was at least not happening between those meetings was that there were some new investigations on the table. So what new knowledge they've gained, maybe from the Center Party or other internally, might show the debate or the story. What we've seen is that the Center Party, by e.g. The representative Lundtigen etc., has almost threatened the Viken Workers' Party in place in this matter and pays little attention to the professional report. Even employee concerns about a weaker professional environment, that it will provide worse services, have become debilitated. That's what we saw last Saturday at the Day Revy. Even more specifically, you don't want to listen to the people either. When you hear the people in the Gulf, what they say when they're asked is that over half is negative to split up the Gulf when they hear how much it costs. And that's what's the real question, because the people know that this is money that needs to be prioritised away from something else. In the future, Norway must continue to convert to a green shift, ensure that more people complete the school, build infrastructure, create more jobs and include more. This is not the time for the reversal and resolution of important reforms. A resolution of the Week will, as I have mentioned, cost the community up to half a billion dollars, result in weaker environments of competence and poorer services and pause development. This is going to be a repetition of other reversals, whether they be regions or municipalities. I therefore look forward to the debate. Perhaps the Council of State can give us some good explanations as to why it makes sense to use the Community's resources and human resources to liquidate rather than develop, and to create new counties when the investigation clearly points to a poorer state economy, poorer services, and that development is suspended.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1194	Thanks for the interpellation. This government has faith in the county municipality. The county authorities are responsible for several important services for residents and businesses in Norway, such as: secondary education, public transport, highways and dentistry. In addition, county councils have an important role to play as a regional development actor. The development of regional partnerships, where social actors from among others: industry and the labour market, academia, organisations, instruments and municipalities are merging in joint development and exploitation of regional advantages, showing one of the strengths of the county municipalities as engines for growth and value creation throughout the country. This can be further developed, for example: by making county municipalities a central player in the development of regional growth agreements, such as: may make important contributions to the green shift. We will also look at how we can strengthen county municipalities in other areas. For example, the Government will: consider transferring the functions of state administrators which are not related to supervision, control or complaint to county councils. Such a transfer could further democratise the regional level. This is something the government will come back to. The government therefore wants to strengthen the functions and responsibilities of county councils, and therefore the free income of county councils has increased by a total of 900 million. kr in the year’s budget. One shall go back some years in time to find a corresponding increase. But not only does the government have faith in the county council, we also have faith in county democracy, the regional parliament, where the people's representatives in the county prioritise, assess what serves best, and decide on the organization and future of the county. This is in sharp contrast to the interpellant, the Right, and the retired Solberg government. From that edge came the coercion decision. An overrun of the Regional People's Government was Right-wing policy for the county municipalities. So what's happening now is a cleanup after the previous government. We have so much confidence in the county councils that we will let them make the basic decision of their own organisation and future. The government now facilitates the sharing of coercive counties and municipalities, if the county councils and municipalities themselves so wish. The interpellant takes up the cost side of a county resolution. Let me first make sure that the government will prepare for the county councils that want to divide, so that the costs of that process will not go beyond the services of the inhabitants. This is in contrast to the previous government, as for example: They collided with Busherud, Akershus, and Eastfold, but only took a small part of the bill that they imposed on the counties. Then I agree that we should be doing this in addition to the use of money and what this takes time and effort. That is the development of the county municipalities we prefer to facilitate. But the responsibility for the situation we've come into, the Solberg government and the bulk of the population in the last period have to take. We take responsibility for clearing up errors and coercive practices against local democracy. If and when there is an application from the Vikings for dissolution, in line with the leaders in the law of division, the government's starting point will be to propose to the Stortinget that it be granted. Then we're going to go on with a work to strengthen the county councils as a service provider and as a regional development operator. That's what both the county authorities and the government prefer to use their powers on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1215	I would first like to thank the Council of State for its contributions, and let me start with what we can agree on. I don't think there's any doubt that both the Right Party, the Center Party and most other parties here in the Stortinget – yes, everyone, I would say – agree that the goal of our work, especially in the committee in which we sit, is to make sure that the municipalities are strengthened, strengthen the work of our elected representatives out there, ensure that people get good services. This is precisely why it becomes so strange that this analysis, to which the Council of State refers, leads to the answer to it being stopped, that the answer to how to develop good services, how to create strong regional centres that create more jobs, more local businesses, and which actually also look a little like how people move now in 2022, is to turn Norway back again, and to reverse the map of Norway back to the 1960s. That's where the whole argument really goes a little bit wrong for the Center Party. Then I have to say that it is a little frivolous – I think it is a parliamentary expression that is allowed to use – when the Central Party repeatedly presents the story that this has been a coercion. The truth is that the regional reform was based on thorough treatment in the Grand Duchy, democratically adopted decisions in the national parliament of the country, which in turn was based on a work done by the ministry, where the county municipalities were also involved in the work. I would like to remind Gram that the former leader of the Central Party, Åslaug Haga, who was also the municipal minister, wanted to carry out a regional reform, wanted to carry out very much of what we have done, and with the same reason: Norway is changing, people live and work in a completely different way than before, and we need to create strong and robust regions that can provide good services. But what happened to the Center Party was that they failed, they didn't get through. Then the Center Party has had a populist sail after those years, when you've thought that the best answer to everything is just to be against and think in reverse, because that's the easiest thing to do. That's what's happened, and it's a strange trip, but we're recording it. I will come back later in the debate and challenge the Council of State on how he has actually intended to deal with this matter in a serious way in the department, with the necessary investigations. So he can think about it a little bit while we listen to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1226	The President will agree with the interpellant that the word 'free' can pass as a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1232	Some comments on the two articles of the interpellant: One of the arguments used here is the need for more functional regions that coincide more with the way people travel and work. I don't think I would then use the new county council Viken as the foremost example of a functional everyday region that coincides with people's work and movement. With regard to the question of coercion and freedom, I do not think that it is enough to refer to decisions in the Stortinget or thorough work in the ministry. The central thing here is what local democracy has meant about the matter. That's the background. It is the coerced municipalities and county councils, by decision in this room, to which the government has addressed itself and given an opportunity to resolve, if you want. Otherwise, in the interpellation, I notice a never so small paradox, or perhaps even a contradiction, because the Right believes that a division of the Fold into three weakens the trade unions – and in spite of that, for example. For example, the municipality of old Buskerud, both the population and the area, is larger than that of the municipality. More and Romsdal, who, of course, got to continue their own existence through the regional reform. It is believed that dividing the bay into three will weaken the trade unions. At the same time, the Right's policy is to shut down the county. Unless you intend to transfer all of the county's tasks to a state agency, a state bureaucracy, it has to be about sending these tasks to 51 municipalities in the Viken. Then I did not hear in the same way the concern for fragmented professional and professional environments. But this is actually a significant point in the debate. Although right-wing will rationalize the municipal structure a good deal more, I'm not the least in doubt about that, I guess it's not like you've been thinking about a structure with, for example. three municipalities in the large district of Viken. So here, in my view, there's an inconsistency in the reasoning that I think it's okay to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1243	A little over two years ago, the Viken County Council saw the light of day – a new county municipality that would provide us with both larger trade unions and better services for the inhabitants. Now, two years later and after only ten weeks of normal operation without coronary apathy, the discussion is about splitting the fold in the final phase. The Viken employees have done a formidable job. The effects of the Viken and the efforts of its employees can be read in the administrative report on the consequences of a division of the Viken County Municipality, presented in December 2021. It shows that by increasing efficiency and economies of scale, the Viken has saved 60 million. kr annually. There is a lot of money that can go directly to give more teachers in school, better ways to drive on or several times and bike paths. The county council attracts competent employees for good, strong professional environments. If the Week splits into three new counties of different sizes, several of these trade unions will split up. I fear that they will become so small that they will no longer appear as attractive jobs. I'm afraid it's going to be a big task to keep employees with a high degree of professional competence, and it could be difficult to recruit new ones if the trade unions don't have a certain size. I fear that in a split we can quickly lose many employees who have a professional competence that is highly sought after both in the public and in the private sector. I believe that a subdivision process can become much more demanding than a aggregation. When you're dealing with a combination, you have one common goal and one vision. In a division you no longer have the same motivation. Those who are going to carry out this division are many of the same employees who, up to now, have worked for several years to merge the Week and create a new organisational culture and community. They have done a very good job, but it has been demanding, and very many employees are tired. There is no doubt that if a majority decides to split the fold, there will still be a limited number of resources in the county to implement this. It may therefore affect the services provided by county councils to their inhabitants. Performing a split of the Week will result in some tasks to be deprioritized. What tasks are involved, and what consequences it will have for climate and the environment, for Oslo Earth, for the inhabitants and for the business community in our region, nobody knows. The fold is not perfect, there is no one who has claimed, but if the Senter Party and the Workers' Party are so dissatisfied with the Viking, why not change what they are dissatisfied with within the Viking, rather than going in reverse and believing that everything was so much better before?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1258	The county councils and municipalities offer people the services they need at all stages of life. Schools, kindergartens, permanent homes, hospitals, buses and ferries are just some of the welfare services provided by municipalities and counties. They're community developers and the ‘base wall’ of the People's Government and our third-party level of government. The Central Party will strengthen the regime and are strong defenders of a third level of government with state, state and municipality. Decisions shall be taken almost as far as they are concerned. The Hurdal platform clearly states that we will continue three directly elected levels. Centralization weakens the rule of the people. The representative of Kapur defends the coercive mergers and says in the interpellation that this is not the time for the reversal and resolution of important reforms. When a large majority in the Gulf now seems to want to reverse the coercion of the Solberg government, the government will listen to local democracy and dissolve the coercive county councils that send applications for decisions in the county council. As Mr Kapur himself says, the Right wants two main levels of government. We know that, but then we lose a very central element in the development of Norway. The county councils are more than ready to take more responsibility. Several of us will give the county councils more responsibility, neither rib nor remove the middle elected level. The county councils already provide good secondary schools, forward-looking transport solutions, public health, dentistry, cultural memories, building protection, the county library and cultural offerings to become wiser. In addition, responsibility for the development of the region has been met, including: overall planning, industrial development and environmental tasks. For example, the county has: responsibilities for approx. 44 000 km of road. The counties have proved to be good road owners after taking over large parts of the state road network. The central party sees further possibilities for the county. If we are to succeed in further developing business, climate change and developing the whole of Norway, we need more local democracy and more people who see opportunities. The county council has a very central responsibility for district policy. The center party is busy that we're going to use the whole country, and we'll use all the tools in the toolbox to get it done. The right has shown that they want a different direction for Norway, with more centralisation, fewer elected and more central governance from Oslo. Putting the county councils down is probably a step in that direction. I am pleased that the government will review and strengthen the instrument and the role of county councils in regional and regional policy. Municipalities and counties will have a more central role in industrial development, so that we can facilitate living communities and jobs throughout the country. We'll look forward. The rural communities around the country are ready to continue to provide good services to their inhabitants, improve their daily lives and develop their region for the benefit of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1279	I'll be inside. To date, I'm a state politician in Western Europe, and there we work together to get the best for the inhabitants as a new, big state. Also with us the Center Party has talked about reversal, but it's now quiet. I believe that they also see that the wider professional environment provides better quality services to people and industry. But there's no doubt that the Week is illogical, too big and too little functional. A state that includes municipalities such as Whaler, Eidsvoll, Asker and Hemsedal will not be able to create cork an efficient organization or a simple sense of law. People in Geilo hardly care about what's going on in Rakkestad or on the Nesodden, and vice versa. The regional reform was the Christian People's Party and the Left's great say. She should never have been done. For the Progress Party, the lack of enthusiasm for the Vikings among the population and the desire to reverse is a clear sign that the time now has come to take the fight against the county council once again – and then with the goal of the Vikings going away, in one way or another. A small country such as Norway does not need three administrative levels. State and municipality should be enough. The tasks of the county may be distributed among them. Transferring the tasks of the county council to the municipalities, and in some cases to the state, will bring the services closer to people and will save large sums in the future. In the Council’s investigation carried out by the Municipal Report in 2013, 44 pp. that the entire administrative phase should be removed. There is little evidence to suggest that the threat to the county municipality as a necessary level of government has increased since then. A study that ABC News presented in the autumn of 2019, when the county council was focused through the county election and the regional reform, showed that only 31 pst. believed that the level had a role to play. More often than not, there are discussions between administrative levels about the responsibility for a situation. Road maintenance is one example, where the inhabitants feel that the road network is in poor condition. Another example is the vacation prices for the county holidays, which is an updated theme. The Støre-regiring itself meant that one had to override the county municipality with price fixing. The population had been more likely to assume that the responsibility for prioritising and financing service purchases had been done by two levels, the municipality and the state, rather than three, as today. The government's policy in the structural field is about reversal and has created expectations in the county municipalities that the government will take the costs of the reversal. Here's a lot of money, both at direct cost to split up the county and to put in place the administration that works from day one. It has also been pointed out that it is expensive in the form of lost synergies, and that the county is going to go under, which could lead to cuts in services – at the continuing school, public transport, business development and county roads. If you really want to reset the old state limits, is it reasonable to send the bill to everyone else? These are difficult questions that we in the Progress Party of mine update our position to get rid of all the county municipalities. Inland counties have decided to ask the government to take initiatives to expel the county as a level of government. The debate is spreading, and the Progress Party will continue to work for our primary position: the closure of the county municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1294	The representative of Kapur shall be grateful to address important questions in his interpellation. I think we all agree that dividing the country into new as well as in old county municipal structures will always be demanding. Norway has a unique geography, which in most other contexts we are very happy in and value as unique both in the Nordic countries and in Europe. But our long-term country has proved difficult to organise purely structurally. On the civil side, we found solutions with eleven regions — some larger than others — but where there was a need to give the county new impetus, to carry out more tasks, and not least to make the regions more active and good labour market. Now the government has arranged for us to probably go back to the start, but now with even worse assumptions for county councils. In his question, Kapur mentioned an investigation that points to poor state-of-the-art economy, poorer services and that development is being suspended. It may seem that, in the event of the collapse of the Viking Bay, Østfold and Buskerud will have to be provided with funds from the State budget to cover the lack of funding for their own operations. I wonder whether it will be covered by the emergency funds of the State budget by taking from other counties within the overall framework, or whether changes will be introduced to the criteria of the income system of the type of Eastfold aid or Buskerud aid. How do the Councils of State think the inhabitants of Eastfold and Buskerud will feel about receiving special treatment in relation to other counties, when they today receive at least as good services from the Week without additional government appropriations? It's used as an argument that the Viking is so big and extends from Halden to Hallingdal. What are the practical, negative consequences? Is there anyone required to commute between Halden and Hallingdal because the Viking is established? I would like to say hello to him. The bay is just an administrative division, not a geographical one. The previous names of geographical areas have not been refused. One of the geographical areas of Eastfold has served for two years as an east fold in the Viken County and in the County Municipality. I would think that most people relate their identity to the place, the village or the city they live in – then the region. To me, it's still unclear what's the government's real reason to get that game going. The government's reversal tool gives us more questions than answers. There is nothing to suggest or give us the impression that moving back to the start will have any positive effect on the counties or that the new division today cannot handle better. After a lot of rounds with the Council of State, it's tempting again to ask, what is the overall goal of the reversal? What is the vision for that? The answer must be more than just identity, or the views of the Central Party on local self-government are not respected. I don't think the government has the full and complete overview of how the reverser is going to shape the states in the years to come, and that worries me. At least the Council of State has not been able to give any reassuring answers. We know that more municipalities are going to be smaller, in other words less rusty to deal with larger and heavier problems. Based on how the Center Party handled these questions the last time they put in government – we know that they've been thinking that 19 counties might have been in most of the team: what will be the new solution in the future? What about all the tasks that could have come into the county road if the Left Party and the Center Party had talked to each other? These are questions that I hope, but doubt that the Center Party will answer us before the reversal is on the table. Is the whole process simply a result of a desperate attempt to deliver the election vows they gave as an opposition party, without then being obliged to provide constructive and alternative solutions? And then there's a question, when we're doing the green shift, and those who are calling for holistic solutions: do they look at holistic solutions for new industrial activity, to think and see the region as a whole, collective solutions? The council said in its statement that he had faith in the county council, that it should be an engine for growth. He heard, like me, the last post. We know that there's a large part in this hall that wants two levels. I'm not there yet, because I believe in the county council as a regional development actor, but as I said, with the grip that we're probably about to do, it won't be a powerful regional actor in terms of development. It is not going to come from – and I understand it well – that the representative from the West is well pleased with Westland, I am well pleased with Trøndelag, and these are also those who sit in Oslo – and not least in Akershus, also a large and important county – well pleased with. This will mainly be the engines ahead. The Central Party now proposes a major debate on the generalist principle, that the merged states, as well as Oslo, may be the only ones who can take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1323	It is an undeniable fact that Norway has changed. However, as surely as Norway has changed, the right has not changed. No matter how clear feedback comes from people in Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold, and despite the fact that 39 of the 51 municipalities in the three former counties have clearly said that they want a break-up of the Vikings – the pointless construction of the Vikings, which is three-way down the people's and elected people's heads – just dismiss it and continue with their clear line and their clear belief that it is domination, greatness, centralisation and coercion that is the future of Norway. I have to say that it is above all free of the Right to bring forward the costs of the regional reform. Here, contrary to what people want, and without a proper investigation, without a proper dialogue and no clear cost estimate, one has just run through a regional reform. Now, when we're going to afterwards clean up the chaos that Right has created, to take care of people's interests, people's interests and employees' interests, all of a sudden, Right is concerned about the costs. The costs involved for the Weekend part may be a one-off cost of NOK 200-300 per capita or approx. 1-2 pst. of one year's budget for the Viken. Yes, it costs in some contexts some money to care for the people's will, but unlike the Right, who spend money overlording people, and who make decisions that people just shake their heads of and disagree with, we spend the money listening to people and doing good services near people, in line with what is the will of the people. To what is referred to in relation to competence: I record that the Right with light and light have tried to find arguments for their position on overcoming the population of the Viking states of Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold. Well, it's not a bureaucracy report to decide how to divide Norway. It's obvious from both the locals, the employees and the inhabitants that one wants to get the three states back, as it was. Meaning measurements that have been presented show that there are more than twice as many people who want a resolution of the Fold than it is who want to preserve that construction. The trade union movement is also very clear. One talks about the consideration of the employees — yes, listen to what those who represent the employees say, for example. LO in Rome, where I myself live, who in a January statement has said: The inhabitants do not want the giants, nor the employees. That's just the feedback. A desire for a more transparent structure that is closer to, where one can strengthen democracy, where one can strengthen the provision of services in the former states, instead of taking care of a structure that has no historical or logical justification for its composition, but which is only the result of a compromise between some parties on the Stortinget back in time. What the Central Party, in cooperation with the Labour Party in the government, is doing what we've gone to election, what we've promised the voters, what we've told the voters that we should do. That shouldn't surprise anyone. The voters had a choice between retaining the former government and the former majority, who stood for supremacy and coercion when it came to both the municipalities and the counties, or getting a new majority, who would develop the states and listen to people. That's the last thing that got a majority in the election, and now we're doing what we've said we should do – for the benefit of the inhabitants of the three states.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1336	There's an exciting debate and an exciting time we're in, at least in terms of time use. At a time when there are many challenges in many places, the most important thing is to carry out a reversal, for which I have not yet received any good arguments for, other than what you think, and what you feel. As a local politician, I have to say that over the last three to five years, I may have received a few questions from people who have asked about state-level issues, but I have had a lot of questions about what citizens experience in municipalities. That's where politicians, local politicians, administrations and trade unions need to have gravel under their legs, close to people. In December 2016, the Workers' Party received support from just SV, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party in terms of not being too big a Week. But the question comes up: what can we really say about what is not working, in connection with the big reversal that is about to happen? We in the Progress Party have been ready. We want resolution and liquidation. We don't want to go back to the old counties, but that's what we vote for secondary. I think we should not forget that the Week has probably contributed to the fact that both the administrative level and the political level, the cooperation and the network that many have provided have made a positive contribution in many areas. But people probably haven't noticed so much about it. It's mostly at the leadership level, I think. But the black paint, the negativeization, the election battalion, the election vows about the reversal of ordinary people are reminiscent of the 1990s in my hometown, when it was a coercion of municipalities. This resulted in No to major municipalities becoming the second largest party in the city government. But as time went by, and there wasn't so much difference to notice for people, this party died slowly, but safely out, and it might be the ones that have the highest joint, going to experience the future. I think that now both the Workers' Party and the Centre have an opportunity to support our proposal to wind up the county level, and to use the funds instead of reverse. I tend to say that if you go into a city today, you should look for the big bank building. It was the largest buildings in our cities, mostly, some years back. Is there anyone who wants to shut down Vipps and these great, new things to get the bank builders back, get the letter giro back, and that you have to face up to the bank? I don't think so. You don't even give people a chance here. It would be much better to say that now we have come so far digitally that we actually see that there is an opportunity to put this level of administration down, and make sure that we strengthen the trade unions around the municipalities and in the Directorates, so that they work together. Then some of the municipalities could have the professional environments that might be best in one place, and then other municipalities, in which some other professional communities belong well, could be responsible for it. If you're willing to see that the public sector should also improve, simplify, you might see that neither police, customs nor other areas of society have followed the same division as what we've done at state level. Maybe you should look at other solutions if you're going to make simplifications and improvements. The most important thing is that ordinary people, most people, experience good services, and you do that in the municipalities. I can't see that the county level makes any difference to people. So came up with the policies of the Progress Party, and the Right's policy also for that matter, that the level of governance should be divided between state and state. It would be better for the absolute majority of ordinary people out there in Municipality-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1351	The representative, Mr Kapur, is concerned that resources that could have been used for important service production are being wasted if the Viken county chooses to dissolve the failed colossal state and rebuilds Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold. He should have thought of this with respect. Small differences between people and a living government have made Norway one of the world’s best countries to live in. This ignored the Right when they started the coup d'état without listening to the people or the municipalities. The right-hand driving is faulty, animals and creates a longer distance between the inhabitants and the elected people. The way in which the merger took place has contributed to the fact that the Vikings have never gained any legitimacy in the population, and in the consultation round that has just been carried out in the municipalities, it also turns out that an overwhelming majority of the municipalities prefer to see the county council split up. Despite the intensive public information from the former government parties on how bad it will be if the Viking dissolves, the NRK's supermeasurement published on February 1st shows that 66 pst. of Eastfold's population will dissolve the Viking. Only 19 pst. says no. The total in the Week says 56 pst. yes to resolution, while only 27 pst. says no. The central party agrees that the resources of society need to be used sensibly. The lesson we can learn from this process is that when significant structural changes are made in society, it must be anchored as well as possible in the population. In this case, it did not happen. The central party believes the Viking weakens the rule of the people and in time will centralize power, people and services. We believe that people who sit closer to people and services will be able to see more easily what are the problems and create better offers. No, most people don't need to visit the county house, but that means who works there, who meets at political meetings there, and what area and area they are responsible for. It is easier to fix a county road or not to drop out of high school if you have local knowledge and sit tighter on them. It is important that a county council recruits employees from all over the county, just to have knowledge and commitment to the whole county. Therefore, in the new counties, we should also facilitate more decentralised jobs outside the county buildings. A centralisation of employees will also have something to say about the competence they possess, for where will a county municipality with head office in Sandvika most of the time recruit from? Yes, of course from the surrounding municipalities. From the consultation process carried out in the municipalities, it is pointed out that the Viken is perceived to have less local knowledge than the former municipalities. There are also concerns that the Vikings relate too much to regional councils and not to individual municipalities. So instead of two levels of governance, as Kapur wants, we now actually have four. I would recommend that the representative Kapur read the attachments to the administrative report drawn up in connection with the resolution case. It appears that a majority of employees also want a division of the Vikings. Several employees’ organisations do not recognize themselves in the reality that management describes. It is claimed that the consequences of sharing are maximised and that analysis of economies of scale is required. The Trust Committee of the Trade Union in Viken, Anne Steinsland, recently stated to the Class struggle that they are quite critical of the report, and that many of the members point to the fact that the trade unions have become so large that it makes it more difficult to cooperate. In addition, many people experience that access to users has become more difficult. It doesn't create good services for the inhabitants. We believe that ideological blind privatization and greater distance between people and people elected create increasing inequality and abstinence. Disparity and disparity play a role in trust, security and cohesion in society. That's why we don't accept Right-wing arguments and get right with reforms that have challenged the proximity and community of Norwegian society. We want services close to where we live, and people who know our neighborhoods. Then not big systems that make people small, the answer. The answer is proximity and community. The government takes the bill to get back Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold. It's an investment that will pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1370	Neither the inhabitants nor the people elected in Buskerud, Akershus and Østfold wanted the Viking to arise. The decision was forced, and it is obvious that the Week lacks the anchoring it needs in the population — and the probability that it will get it also seems to be small. That the resolution of the Week will cost the amount that the representative Kapur estimates, there is already considerable doubt, for the figures underlying it, is based on the coercion process carried out by the previous government. The resolution is estimated to be a simpler affair. Obviously, if you can make a point of the price tag instead of looking at the issues of principle and democracy, that's a good solution. I'm not going to repeat how small the price tag played, and how little use of the community's resources and human resources played a role when the Right first forced Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold to merge and let the county council itself be left with the bill of nearly 300 million. kr. So it's interesting in itself to see that it's a little heavy for some people that the new government doesn't have a right-wing policy. And speaking of right-wing policy: I think it's refreshing that the interpellation we're dealing with today actually takes up the argument that a policy for the county council is to put it down. It explains why there is no need to be so concerned with counties of appropriate size organisationally, and why it is not so dangerous if the level of management does not have any specific legitimacy in the population. It can also explain why a large-scale structural reform was introduced in the counties, without it appearing as if clearly what the problem with the originals was — except that they were too small, then. Which scale was used is also a little bit unclear when you ended up with a population of 1.2 million. It is also interesting to look at the map of the municipalities that until now have dealt with the question of the dissolution of Viken. It is significant that the representative Kapur, who raises the question, represents Oslo, because in a limited area around Oslo, the municipalities have wanted to keep the construction Viken. On the other hand, moving beyond the areas of former Busherud, Akershus and Eastfold is largely a majority to dissolve. And why is that so? There may be several reasons for this, of course, but it is clearly less important for the centrally located, populous and populous municipalities around Oslo that the Viken centralisation project consists. Here it's anyway a relatively short way to everything. I guess spending a lot of money on poorly investigated solutions is okay if there's a set of right-wing policies, and then you don't have to talk so much about it. If, on the other hand, money is spent on something other than right-wing policy, or you want to correct it — including hopeless centralisation projects, both without local anchoring and with major local democratic problems — then it is certainly a completely different matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1383	I've heard the Right in front of two arguments for the Week. A state politician from Hallingdal argued that the road to Oslo was the reason why the Viking had to be created. Former Minister of State for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Nikolai Astrup believed that Viken would give better governance. The only argument that the Right now leads to the Week not being resolved is that it costs money – money for which the sitting government has said that it will stand up to rectify in an unjust right is responsible. Had Right dared to carry out the execution of the consequences of the coercion strokes they did, the Viking county would never have seen the light of day. How would Right defend using 336 million? kr of the money of the community to merge three states, where all three counties had decided that they did not want to merge? The representative Kapur is busy using the community funds to create good services for the inhabitants. Then I would like an explanation of how he and Right could accept that Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold county councils had to spend 291 million. kr of its own funds in order to carry out a co-consolidation exercise that no-one would have. That was 291 million. kr such as, inter alia: could have been used to build all the necessary advanced schools. So when the representative from the Left now asks for a resolution, the rescue packages for Eastfold and Buskerud are needed, it might not be so much to ask the government to take this bill as it is. The Vikings say that the merger has helped save 60 million. kr. That's 60 million. kr The plot has been cut as a result of the reduced transfers of the Solberg government to the county. The county roads are now paved with less asphalt, the projects have been suspended, and the school expansion has been set in time as a result of the so-called savings. The Week is not a resolution that gives the poorer part of the economy. It's the right government's income system for the state that does. This was the foundation of the Viken County Administration in its report and for its calculations of how the Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold economy would look forward in a resolution. However, the report says nothing about the fact that, with the same provisions, the Viken County had to go down to 300 million. kr in the same period. The Seiting Labour Party-Center Party-Registration has already shown that they will invest more money in municipalities and county municipalities, in order for citizens to receive good services. Governments and magnificence are the principals of the state, and therefore must constantly ensure that the state has a viable economy that ensures equivalent and good services throughout the country. In its interpellation, Kapur writes that "development is paused". But what is development? Development is not that organizations grow larger, and that power is distributed to fewer hands. Development is to exploit the potential that is inherent in each, by giving them confidence in doing their work as they think is best, based on local conditions and clear expectations. Development is to enable the populace to have knowledge of the services and the geography they are chosen to govern, so that they can make good and defensive decisions. Evolution is that the voters recognize the politicians and what we stand for, both before and after elections, and that those who are citizens know how to influence them politically. The previous big crowd, including Right's representatives, believed that the Vikings were too large a geographical area with too many inhabitants that it was the best thing for a magnificent representative to have it as his constituency. There must also be a high level of government policy-makers who do not have the policy as a job but who do it on a leisure basis. In Buskerud County, my constituency, one was able to take another 948 million. kr of the maintenance run on the county roads in the years 2010 to 2019. The total lag was approx. 2 billion. kr. It was invested in the construction and rehabilitation of advanced schools – a powerful bet on and by Buskerud County. With the Viking, the investments for school buildings in Akershus are centralised. It's the meat weight that's going on. The alternative to the Viken resolution is additional community approximation. It doesn't provide better services, it increases popular government or reduces bureaucracy, either in the Gulf or in the municipalities. The energy and money must now be used to build new and viable Akershus, Buskerud and Eastfold counties, and the Center Party invites Right to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1406	In Budstikka on 4 January, one read that the Road Administration in the Viken County Municipality was now about to go into resolution. The reason was discussions about the county council's resolution. For county resolution, several aspects are specific. The fact that we are now seeing a flight of competences from some county councils that have discussions about going to a resolution or about continuing as a common unit is a consequence of the current process of reversal. This mobility of competences is seen in a variety of ways. in the transport sector, where the county administration feels that the major professional environments that are now formed before this sector have been positive for the development of the projects, but the discussion of resolution and smaller units is driving people away from the county and the professional environment is fragmented. In the Viken, which is now experiencing this wave of competence, the conclusion is that a resolution will result in the project being pushed out on time, and that a person misses the pace of the implementation of county-based rehabilitation and traffic security projects. In particular, this will go beyond projects in old Buskerud and Eastfold county municipalities. The small business environment problem was one of the challenges that the Solberg government faced when they took over eight years ago. Larger and more robust devices were pointed to as a response to this challenge. What's happening now is that there's uncertainty in the administration. It's not good for recruiting and keeping skilled professionals. For these, people who are sought after also in other disciplines, and the result is that the administration has to use consulting services, which the Centre doesn't want either. It is very difficult to imagine that the fragmented professional environment should have a greater executive power than the larger and more dynamic professional environment, no matter what policy areas we are talking about. For the transport sector, this will lead to consequences that are evident in less road construction, no matter what is happening in the future. How a person will continue to ensure that a good thing is to keep pace with municipal road projects when the professional environment before the transport sector is fragmented, I have not received a response. Nor can the Minister of Transport respond after we have asked for this. He points out that it will be the responsibility of the county councils. Reverse will not help to make this job easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1419	First, I want to say that I'm very happy with this interpellation. Although it is about the Week, it also illustrates a little bit of the point of regional reform – it's about how we spend our money. I come from one of the states that the Workers' Party and the Centre will spend a lot of resources dividing up, that is, Troms and Finnmark. I didn't join the policy of fighting for how many county municipalities we're going to have in our country, or where the administrative centres are going to be. I joined the politics because I'm concerned about how we make people's everyday lives better, how we provide people with better services, welfare services. We can probably discuss a lot of how to organize our country, considering either municipality, state or state. My primary position might have been to make sure that we had more local democracy, but when we have the county municipality, it's important that we have a county municipality that provides good services, whether it's about high school, dentistry, transportation or how we create more jobs. What we've seen so far with a Workers' Party-Center Party government are two parties fighting for the division of the county municipalities. But what we have also seen is very poor craftsmanship, poor investigations and large sums of money to be spent on breakdown. The question I still have not been answered is: what got worse by merging the county municipalities, and what is going to be better about dividing the county municipalities now? On the contrary, I see more and more people who warn against this, especially the employees who work in the county that see that one can get smaller professional environments, and that one can get fewer environments to play on. So the question of what is going to be better with a division, I have still not received an answer to either the Workers' Party or the Center Party. The centre party often talks about reducing red tape and giving more money to the districts, and there are probably things that we in the Right can also agree on, but in this case the centre party is talking about greater bureaucracy and less spending in the districts, because they're going to spend that money on investigation and division. There are money that could have gone to give better help to students who are struggling at school, such as in Troms and Finnmark, who have some of the schools that have experienced great challenges in their learning. One could have spent the money on cleaning up county roads, for example. on Senja, so that salmon came into the market faster, one could create more jobs, and one could have spent more money on business development around the regions. But instead of spending the money on those things, the Workers' Party and the Center Party choose to spend them on more bureaucracy and more investigations and division of county municipalities. I also think, as a representative of Troms and Finnmark, that it is a pity to see that the big debate of the Workers' Party and the Centre is contributing to the North is whether we should be one or whether we should be two county municipalities, when the major challenge in North Norway is how we should contribute to stronger population development, more competent labour force, which two out of three companies are struggling with, and better infrastructure, for example. through county roads. These are the challenges they should spend time discussing, rather than discussing whether there should be one or two county municipalities. In the end, I just want to say that in Troms and Finnmark, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which are so concerned with local democracy and listening to the citizens and listening to the municipalities, have also chosen not to hold a hearing, among either people or municipalities, on the division of the county municipality. I also think that's rather arrogant, because you're talking about local democracy, but when you're talking about division, there's local democracy on the Central Party's premises – one chooses not to listen to the municipalities when it comes to this. I'm actually summarizing the debate here that the most important project in North Norway for the new government is that one should have a reversal of the county council, cost whatever it costs, regardless of the quality of the services offered to the inhabitants. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1436	The following speakers have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1441	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I think it's good that we get an exchange of views here in the Chamber, so that at least we get a real debate somewhere in this country and not just an over-control and reversalive from the Center Party. I also think that this debate has been somewhat influenced. It has been very thin in the ranks of the Workers' Party, but there may be some reasons for that. I also think the debate bears the mark that very many from the Central Party are still doing a reading of their own election brochures, where there are some light and approximate points. It's not to be a bit bad now, but if you look at the polls, I have a little bit of an impression that the voters no longer believe in what was in the election brochure of the Center Party, when they now see what is really their real policy. I also see that the Zenterparti peaks with offices here at Stortinget in Oslo or in the department believe that they have all the knowledge they need to make good policies for the whole of Norway and the whole country. They will certainly have the voters' confidence to do so. Then they believe that for their own local politicians, for example. The bay, which has less distances than a county like Nordland, it can get too large, and that's not going to work. They cannot sit and make policies for an entire region, while the Centre Party's own summits here in Oslo can make good policies for the whole country. It's very low trust in local politicians. Fortunately, we don't have it in the right. I have to say that an important element is that it's really not that much to reverse back to. This debate is really about the central party now using large resources from the community and turning them into new county municipalities, more administration, more bureaucracy, more consultants, instead of continuing to develop, instead of continuing to build good trade unions and, above all, to provide important services with even better quality to the citizens. That is what the report states, a technical report which is referred to with contempt in the vote of the representatives of the Central Party. I am used to the fact that the representatives of the Central Party in Stortinget may have such a relationship with the fact, but I expect the Council of State, when he receives an application from the Viking and will forward the matter to Stortinget, do the job of investigating the matter thoroughly, so that the Stortinget gets a proper report to deal with. If we don't want to make sure the council does that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1452	The representative Kapur is trying to make a point that we should know the best, we who sit in the offices here in the Stortinget and in the government apparatus, but I believe that the representative then misunderstood the most basic thing in the debate. The point is not first and foremost what we mean here on the Grand Duchy and in government, but what the people and the elected peoples of the county communities concerned mean. It was the Right who thought it best in the big office and government when they chose to use coercion against local democracy. Otherwise we have to note that we look very differently at what has happened, and not least at what we think should happen further. The right-hand project for the county is to put it down. The project of the central party and government is to invest in the county municipalities and develop them further. I have to say that I believe it is a rather serious matter for our country to assess a winding-up of the county level. I believe it will be a serious mistake. There are a number of tasks that should and must be solved at regional level. The question is whether or not that solution should be directed by a public body. To the extent that it is believed that it is the State that is to take over the tasks of the county council, I will at least state that the centre party and the government will not support the centralisation of decisions and problem solutions that such a policy will provide. And to the extent that the municipalities are supposed to take over tasks, I believe that there is a point left unanswered after this debate, that is, the point behind the interpellation: to ensure economies of scale and environments of competence, and to fear them when dividing the Week from one to three units, but at the same time being open to spreading the same tasks up to 51 municipalities in the same area. Finally, the representative of Skelstad had an article that I should probably have had a separate post to reply to. Let me just briefly comment on the point of the income system by stating that the income system for county municipalities will apply to all county municipalities. The point of an income system is that it is designed neutrally and objectively to ensure the same basis for the provision of services. However, after a division, a review of the income system will be necessary to ensure that there are no unintended effects as a result, in exactly the same way that was done when merging the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1465	The interpellant debate is therefore closed. At the request of the Judicial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 5 and 6 will be treated below one.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1495	First, I would like to thank the Justice Committee for its good cooperation. Today, we are discussing two proposals relating to the Schengen Information System, abridged SIS, and there is a single committee that puts forward a position on both issues. SIS is a large information system supporting cooperation between police and border control authorities in their work. The system is an institution for Schengen participation, and Norway has been part of the system since we entered Schengen in 2001. In November 2018, three new acts on SIS were adopted, which will be discussed in Prop. 230 S for 2020-2021, with Innst. 132 S for 2021 to 2022. Necessary legislative changes resulting from the regulations will be dealt with in Prop. 226 L for 2020-2021, with Innst. 52 L for 2021-2022, which is now treated at the same time. The legal acts constitute the essential continuation of the existing law, but the scope of the system is expanded and it is opened so that more information can be added to the system than is possible today. Decisions on the return of third-country nationals without legal suspension shall in future be recorded in the SIS. This implies a new use of the system. Today, people may be wanted to clean up their place of residence, or to keep them safe for their own sake. This is now expanded to allow some people who are not missing to be registered. Children at risk of being abducted or being victims of trafficking in human beings, forced marriages or sexual mutilation may be registered to prevent their departure. The same applies to children at risk of being involved or becoming victims of terrorist-related activities, being recruited to armed groups or being involved in combat actions. Vulnerable persons who are at risk of being exposed to trafficking in human beings or gender-based choices shall also be able to be registered in the future with a view to preventing their departure, with national rules permitting such measures. Cross-border robbery and forgery shall be more effective by opening it to record more stolen or forged items than is possible today. The legal acts also give Member States more stringent requirements by adding a notification to the SIS hereafter to persons with a refusal of entry. This has not yet been mandatory. It is also open for more information about persons to be registered for specific purposes, including: image of hand surfaces, DNA and facial biometry. Fingerprints of unknown persons shall be capable of being inserted for the purpose of identification, e.g. fingerprint from an instance of an asset belonging to an assumed perpetrator. The implementation of the acts requires amendments to the laws and involves economic consequences both for investment and operation. The adoption of the Regulations is also considered to be a matter of particular importance. The consent of the majority to the acceptance of the acts is therefore necessary under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. Implementation of the Regulations requires amendments to the Act of 16 July 1999 on the Schengen Information System. There is also a need for some changes to the Police Register Act and the Foreign Affairs Act. The amendments proposed by the Regulations are referred to in Prop. 226 L. The Committee points out that SIS is a central part of the Schengen cooperation and is presumably the main international information system of the police. The new legal instruments further develop cooperation in the fields of border control, police and return and could make an important contribution to strengthening the fight against cross-border crime, protecting vulnerable persons and combating illegal migration. The Committee then proposes that the Regulations be accepted. It shall also be understood that the appointment of the Committee has been sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence aligned itself with the draft opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, or the Committee had no comments. When it applies to Prop. 226 L and the setting of amendments to the SIS law, etc., mean that the current system, where the SIS law provides for an exhaustive regulation of all matters relating to the Norwegian part of the SIS, is not proposed. Instead, one suggests that the acts be incorporated into the SIS Act by giving them legal status, while retaining the basic structure of the SIS Act. In addition, minor changes are made to the Foreign Affairs Act and the Police Register Act. The Committee recommends that changes to the law be made, and it is a joint committee that recommends it to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1525	The size currently addresses the legislative proposal on amendments to the SIS Act and the landfill proposal on the acceptance of the three new SIS regulations. The Schengen Information System (SIS) is a central part of Schengen cooperation and is probably the main international information system of the police. The new acts will further develop cooperation in key areas of border control, police and return. Legal acts could make an important contribution to strengthening the fight against cross-border crime, protecting vulnerable persons and combating illegal migration. These changes may provide more effective investigation and clarification of serious criminal cases by the police and better procedures by the foreign authorities. The government will contribute to enhanced judicial cooperation in Europe in order to better combat digital and other cross-border crime. In this context, SIS is a central tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1532	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1549	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, lines will not be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1556	The case spokesperson is actually Maria Aasen-Svensrud, but she has seen enough to report the case. The proposal we have to deal with changes to the insurance contract law is an amendment that will implement EEA rules corresponding to parts of Directive 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance distribution. In addition, it is proposed to restructure the insurance contract law and to regulate, inter alia, the insurance contract law. the compensation, the burden of proof and the so-called digital first choice. The Directive, which is the starting point, should help to increase customer protection and strengthen customer confidence in the players, and it aims to strengthen the internal market and facilitate a level playing field in the distribution of insurance. Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No. 214/2018 of 26 October 2018 to include the insurance distribution directive in the EEA Agreement. It is proposed in the proposal to restructure the insurance contract law so that the law has five parts: a first general part with general obligations, another general part with pre-contractual obligations, two parts on non-life and personal insurance contracts and a last general part on compensation rules, time limits, review procedures and supervision, etc. It is a joint committee that suggests that important rules on whether the customer’s rights to insurance undertakings and insurance intermediaries are collected in a law – a law that strengthens consumer protection and that gives superior and more detailed requirements for information and guidance before entering into a contract than is the case under the current rules. The proposal shall also ensure that the customer receives the same protection regardless of whether the insurance is sold directly from an insurance company or through agent or broker. There is also a statutory requirement for professional defence of insurance undertakings and intermediaries, and the customer may claim compensation for losses arising from a breach of this obligation. All supply shall also be in accordance with the requirements and needs of the customer and it shall be easier to obtain an overview of the insurance supply and thus to compare different supply. It is also required that insurance undertakings and intermediaries have good and effective complaint handling procedures and time-limits for replying to complaints. As with the new Financial Contracts Act, it is proposed that the insurance undertaking should bear the burden of proof that the undertaking's obligations under law and regulation are fulfilled. A joint committee highlights the importance of the fact that the rules on digital first choice do not exclude some users from communication with insurance companies, but that the companies still have good solutions for consumers who do not have or do not want to communicate digitally. This presents a proposal to amend the insurance contract law which hopefully strengthens our consumer protection when we enter into insurance contracts. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for their good cooperation in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1575	I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the proposal for amendments to the insurance contract law. The proposal contains several important changes, such as: shall contribute to increased customer protection. Most of us enter into many insurance contracts during life. Products may be difficult to understand and the choice of insurance may have a major impact on the private economy. The amending law provides, inter alia, for: more comprehensive pre-contractual information and guidance requirements. All offers and recommendations of insurance shall be in accordance with the requirements and needs of the customer. It will help to make it easier to choose the right insurance policy, so that customers do not have to pay for something they do not need. The amendments will also bring together important rules on the rights of customers towards the insurance distributor in one law, regardless of whether the insurance is sold by the insurance company or through an agent or broker. This will help the customer to better understand the rights. Many of the rules are based on EU requirements, but other changes have also been proposed. Among other things, the rules better facilitate electronic communications and build on so-called digital first choice. The Committee has pointed out that it is important that the rules do not exclude some consumers from communication with insurance undertakings, and I fully agree that care should be taken. After the legislative proposal, customers can reserve their reservation against electronic communications, and a consumer can also always ask to have the contract terms on paper. I would also like to stress that the legislative proposal is harmonised with the new insurance contract law, which has been adopted but has not entered into force. Thus, the changes will also help to create better coherence in the regulation of different types of financial services and products.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1588	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1607	The following shall now be called up by the alternates: for West Agder: Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius for Finnmark: Sigurd Kvammen Rafaelsen From the Workers' Group there is an application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Maria Aasen-Svendsrud as of 8 February at 2.30 p.m. 15 and until further notice. The President recommends that this application be dealt with immediately and approves, and sees it as agreed. In addition, the President will recommend that the alternate, Camilla Maria Breek, be called to meet during the term of leave, and also see it as a decree. Camilla Maria Breek is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1640	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1652	During the debate Freddy André Øvstegård has presented nine proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. One, two, six, seven and nine from the Socialist Left Party and Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure profit-free kindergarten operations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit proposals for amendments to the financial legislation for private kindergartens, which ensure that tax and parental payments in their entirety go to better kindergartens and not take value for owners.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to introduce the notification obligation and the right of pre-emption for the municipality in the event of the sale of kindergartens, and to propose any necessary legislative changes in order to introduce such rights and obligations.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to change the pension allowance for the private children’s households, so that they correspond to the actual pension costs borne by the children’s households.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to follow up the report of the Storberget Committee and to carry out the necessary investigations with a view to changing the financing system for private kindergartens. A new financing mechanism shall ensure the democratic management of a single nursery sector, require that each nursery should be organised as its own legal entity, enable the sector to be dimensioned properly, enable targeted quality interventions, ensure greater financial transparency and financial supervision, and ensure the pay, pension and working conditions of employees.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1692	Proposal No. 3–5 and 8, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1697	Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to enable and require local authorities to adjust their childcare facilities locally, including the distinction between non-profit and commercial private kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that municipalities are allowed to impose the same requirements on private kindergartens as public kindergartens, such as the prioritisation of children entitled to kindergartens, the admission of apprentices and the observance of local manning standards.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests a case to introduce stricter regulation of the purchase and sale of kindergartens and to prevent short-term owners such as foreign buying-in funds from buying up in the nursery sector.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to the Stortinget to implement amendments to the provisions of the Kindergarten Act and Regulation on government grants to private kindergartens. Government grants must reflect the real costs of running kindergartens, based on staffing, competence and quality requirements.» The Greens have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1734	The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1753	During the debate, Mr Sanner presented a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a comprehensive reform of secondary education to contribute to increasing the motivation, learning and well-being of the students, setting up a party-based sample to input into the reform. Emphasis shall be placed on the participation of children and young people. The proposal for a secondary school reform shall be promoted to the Stortinget no later than in the sessions 2023-2024, with the aim of achieving entry into force on 1 January 2025.’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e1776	Case No. 3 and 4 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e2224	It's going to be above the title of the law and the law at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e2234	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e4003	The adoption of the recommendation by the Committee was agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e4006	It's going to be above the title of the law and the law at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e4016	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-08.ana.ud92e4093	This means that today's maps are ready to be processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
