ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e59	Four permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on the Per Olaf Lundtigen Allowance and by the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Trine Lise Sundnes – both on the 8th and 9th February to attend the EFTA Parliamentary Meeting in Brussels from the Central Party Group on the Welfare Permit of the representative of Mr Geir Adelsten Iversen from 8 to 10 February from the representative of Helge André Njåstad on care leave from 8 to 10 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Buskerud: Sigrid Simensen Ilsøy For Finnmark: Heidi Anita Lindkvist Holmgren For Hordaland: Sigbjørn Framnes For Oslo: Agnes Nærland Wilderzeich
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e116	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e122	On behalf of the representative Björn Moxnes and myself, I propose independent examination of requests for access to documents from the administration and presidency of Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e127	The representative of Liv Kari Eskeland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e132	On behalf of the representatives Helge Orten, Olve Grotle, Aleksander Stokkebø and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on increasing the focus on and new solutions for the racial protection of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e137	The representative, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e142	On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, Sveinung Rotevatn, Grunde Almeland and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to make the income insurance scheme for self-employed and freelancers permanent.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e147	The representative, Mr Hagerup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e153	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Kari-Anne Jønes, Himanshu Gulati, Abid Raja, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I propose to repeal the freezing decision for the examination of applications for recognition as a post-secondary school with a specific profile or post-secondary education in vocational education programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e158	The representative of Guri Melby will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e163	On behalf of the representatives of Sveinung Rotevatn, Grunde Almeland, Alfred Jens Bjørlo and I signed, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on conversion and incentives for travel and catering, cultural and outdoor activities following the coronary apathy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e168	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e173	On behalf of the representatives Sveinung Rotevatn, Alfred Jens Bjørlo and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on local CO 2 capture and storage, etc. to achieve climate targets on the base.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e181	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e199	On the basis of a proposal from the Selection Board to investigate the control function of the Grand Duchy, the Stortinget adopted in 2021 a new Civil Ombudsman Act and a new Bill on the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Defence. These replaced the former Civil Ombudsman Act and instructions for the Defence Ombudsman’s office. It is in the new laws and their preparatory work provided that the powers of the Grand Duchy may be delegated to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy in accordance with selected provisions. This is followed up in the setting The Stortinget has for treatment today. Under the Civil Ombudsman Act, it is proposed that the authority to determine the salary of the Civil Ombudsman and, where appropriate, to subpoena the Ombudsman, as well as the authority to consent to the Ombudsman’s other position or duties in public or private activities, be delegated to the Presidency. This is in line with the delegations that Stortinget had adopted under the now repealed Civil Ombudsman Act, and thus does not imply any change compared to what was previously the case. It is proposed, under the law of the Swedish Defence Ombudsman, that the power to determine the salary of the Defence Ombudsman and the remuneration of the members of the jury be delegated to the Presidency. This is in line with what was the arrangement after the now repealed instructions for the Ombudsman. Furthermore, it is proposed that the power to revise the Staff Regulations and powers to deal with complaints in matters of order punishment, dismissal, suspension or dismissal be delegated from the Stortinge to the Presidency. Under the law of the Civil Ombudsman, this competence has been added directly to the Presidency and it is considered appropriate to apply equal arrangements under the Civil Ombudsman Act and the Defence Ombudsman Act. In addition, it proposes a minor change in the guidelines for the use of grants to the aggregates, so that it can be seen that the report to the aggregates is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Accounting Act and the accounting framework. This was adopted as a scheme through a modification of the guidelines in 2014, but this change was omitted by an incursion when the Stortinget adopted amendments to the guidelines in the autumn of 2020. This is now proposed to be corrected. On this basis, I would recommend that the Storting make a decision according to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e216	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e233	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e240	The Presidency shall present its position in which it is recommended that the proposal made by the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Moxnes, Snee Martinussen, Marhaug, Aydar, Jørgensen, Kristjánsson, Drevland Lund and Bae Nyholt in Document 8:34 S for 2021-2022 be not adopted. The proposal for a representative is that the Storting should ask the Presidency to amend the legislation on commuter housing in Stortinget, so that: ‘Representatives shall not be provided with a residence for services without documented specific needs if they are already owned or disposed of by other dwellings less than 40 km running distance from Stortinget’. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Stortinge should ask the Presidency: «Amend the legislation of the Great Britain commuter housing so that the residence is not made available free of charge to representatives who own more than one dwelling from before, without documented specific needs». I would like to point out, on behalf of a united presidency, that on 11 December 2021, the Presidency adopted revised guidelines for the allocation of commuter housing for Stortinge. The revised guidelines provide clarification, clarifying and deepening the conditions for entitlement to commuting accommodation, in line with current practice. This is stated in the revised guidelines, inter alia: «the need for commuting accommodation shall be justified and documented» and «the right of depositors who are registered, actually resident or self-occupied with housing within 40 km of the driving distance from Stortinget is not entitled to commuter accommodation». Furthermore, it is clarified that the wording ‘disposal of housing’ implies ‘the free use of all or part of a dwelling on a daily basis by the representative’. In addition, it says: ‘A representative is not, however, considered to have disposed of an entity that he owns within 40 km of the driving distance from Stortinget if it is wholly rented out. The tenancy relationship must be established at the time of application for a commuting dwelling.» I further point out that the guidelines are up-to-date with the information requirements requested in the annual reporting form, and it is clarified that, on their own initiative, ‘immediately inform Stortingen’s administration of circumstances that could lead to the conditions for allocation no longer being fulfilled’. There has also been a clarification of the responsibilities of each staging representative with regard to the tax management of the commuting dwelling made available by Stortinget. On behalf of a united presidency, I would also like to point out that, by decision of the Presidency on 9 and 22 September 2021, it was known that it was decided to set up a sample to carry out an external review of the rules for the arrangements for commuting housing for the population representatives. The mandate of the Committee was extended on 16 December 2021 to include a full review of the rules, guidelines and practices in force for all financial arrangements for the EEAS. In doing so, the selection shall assess both the device and the scope of the commuting housing arrangement and other financial arrangements for the depositors. This also includes requirements for systems of control and penalties for breaches of the rules of the arrangements. It follows from the mandate that the selection for the assessment of the device and the scope of the different arrangements and their overall level should focus on the following: ‘that it is possible to exercise the position of a staggering representative on an almost equal basis, irrespective of the background and place of residence of the representatives; that the schemes have a purpose and justification for legitimacy in the population; that the arrangements are proportionate to similar arrangements for other groups in society’ – they shall be fair. The Committee shall submit a final report to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy by 31 January 2023 but shall submit an interim report by 2 May 2022 proposing general principles for the various financial arrangements. The proposal made in Document 8:34 S for 2021-2022 involves, in some respects, tightening up the commuting housing scheme in relation to current practice. However, the Presidency considers that any change to the commuting housing scheme should now be assessed by the reduced sample and also addressed to other financial arrangements for the large-scale representatives. An overall presidency indicates that the external sample is now in the process of fully investigating all the arrangements, including commuting dwellings. The ambition is that, before the summer, we should deal with the general principles to ensure that all arrangements are fair, have legitimacy among people, and are not to be misunderstood. We're in the process of cleaning up. I would therefore recommend that the Stortinget take a decision in accordance with the unanimous vote by the Presidency, and therefore that the draft representative not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e291	This is a point of light in today's debate: the attitude we have received from the presidency, underlines that Red's proposal was not voted down until June 2019. Then the presidency would not recommend the changes. Then it was re-launched by the Red's big group in a separate proposal that we presented in November. In December, the Presidency adopted on its own initiative amendments which are well on the way to meeting proposal No. 1, which was promoted in November. Had we in Stortinget adopted our proposal on the first attempt, we could have clarified the legislation long before the media raised a number of commuting housing issues in the election campaign. When we got a new commuting case with the previous staging president, the change became inevitable. This is a little bit of a recognizable pattern. Red has proposed restrictions on a number of contaminants to the large-scale representatives, which the established parties find quite consistently an excuse or a pretext to oppose. When our proposal was promoted in the autumn, we could hear the same day the Chairman of Progress Party Sylvi Listhaug on radio go against the changes to the rules for commuter housing. Fortunately, the presidency quickly came to a better conclusion. Therefore, it is also striking when the presidency now considers that further changes to the commuter housing policy are not appropriate until we have an investigation of the scheme from the sample that provides an interim report in May and its final report in January next year, because it sounds a bit like an echo from previous rounds. There have been a number of cases in which representatives own more dwellings and have income from rentals, while getting commuter housing free of charge from Stortinget. The guidelines explicitly provide for the possibility of owning a dwelling within the 4-mile limit of Stortinget, rent out that dwelling and then apply for a commuting dwelling. In our view, it is completely unreasonable to keep a practice like this in which big business representatives are free to both cover the owner-occupancy of the Stortinget and collect rental income on the housing market, when very many ordinary people have great problems paying for a place to live, when both housing prices and electricity prices are shooting in the weather. This also raises a number of tax issues. I bring up Red's proposal that representatives who own more than one dwelling from before should not be entitled to commuter housing from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e306	Then the representative Björn Moxnes mentioned the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e325	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e332	This is the first matter I am the case rapporteur for in this committee, and I must say that it has been a good experience. I would therefore like to be allowed to thank the Committee for a good cooperation before going over to explain the Right's views on this matter. There may be a lot of reasons why a couple choose cohabitation rather than marriage. Maybe they have a conscious relationship that they don't want a marriage, with the legal regulations it involves. Maybe it's more random and unconscious, as it was to me when my partner and I chose to be together for ten years before we got married. Then there was no need for legal regulation that made us take that step up. In any case, the Right considers that the State should be restrained from intervening in the private lives of people, including in the way different forms of life are regulated. Any decision on a derogatory cohabitation law raises not only practical but also quite significant value issues. However, the right is in favour of carrying out an investigation into an aberrant cohabitation law, but we would like to stress that we want such an investigation to be carried out in order to ensure a sufficient level of knowledge, so that we can decide later on whether it would be appropriate to introduce such an aberrant cohabitation law. Because there are also good reasons why we should investigate this. Cohabitation is an accepted and widespread form of life in Norway, and one third of those living in a life in Norway today are cohabitants. Information on cohabitation agreements is available. However, there is a few who have a cohabitation contract, and it is clear that too many people are not aware of why it might be a good idea to conclude such agreements. Legal advice for women and lawyers who work in this field tells us that many think they have better rights than they do, and that the cohabitation agreements that are concluded are often deficient. This can quickly lead to an economic settlement in the event of a break-up and to conflicts. Judicial organisations also report that women are often left standing on the bar at the end of cohabitation. Experience suggests that there are often men who pay the loan on the house, the cabin and the car and perhaps save on retirement, while the women cover the more running expenses in the family. The consequence of this is that man’s investment increases in value while the woman’s financial contribution is simply eaten up. It can be a trap of poverty and a question of equality. Whether there is an aberrant cohabitation law or other solutions that are best suited to help solve the challenges we see, we do not know today. That is why we are looking forward to an investigation into this, so that we can decide on it on a knowledge-based basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e347	Today, we are going to debate a proposal to impose an abstinent cohabitation law, a proposal that deals with love between two people and the consequences of it. Fortunately, love is optional in Norway, and so is the form of life, and so is it. You have to choose how you want to regulate your life and your relationship. But in the rush of love, we don't always plan for the consequences of how we might get out of a relationship – it's also in many ways unnatural. In addition, SSB figures show that society has changed. Where the Nordics previously chose marriage, a growing proportion now have chosen cohabitation. Then the Storting and the Law must follow in time. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need to carry out an abstinence from a cohabitation law, not to introduce such a law in the first place, but to gain knowledge that takes into account the needs of the 2022 society. For example, we know that feedback from, among other things, JURK, the Women's Front and the Norwegian Women's Sanitation clearly show a desire for, and need for, this to be investigated. We know that there are major misunderstandings and uncertainties related to voluntary cohabitation agreements, and we know that there are statistically the worst cases of non-agreements in women who are the worst victims of non-agreements, which are secondary to their children. The importance of social change, new needs for knowledge, equality and the best interests of children means that the Labour Party sees that this matter should be addressed. We need to see all of the sides of this. As late as June 2021, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV promoted a similar minority proposal as what we are about to deal with today. The Left, Right, Advance Party and Christian People's Party then voted against. Knowledge of the sides of coexistence is still as important for the Workers' Party, and we are pleased that the Left has turned around and now promotes a similar proposal as we do. We're also happy that it seems to get a majority. Together, let's make sure that we have an investigation of the consequences of the form of life that has become so popular in Norway, namely cohabitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e360	I fully agree with the representative of the Labour Party that we must, of course, have freedom of choice in this country. The party of progress is the champion of it, but then of course there are also differences in how a person chooses to live. One can be consensual, and one can be consensual with a lot of people. In Norway, for marriage, it is possible to enter into a relationship with one person. And of course, you should be free to choose for yourself what legal obligation you want to enter into, with someone you might be in love with, as it was mentioned here, or love, or with someone you have other practical forms of life. So there are some challenges. In fact, I think the rapporteur presented some of the issues that need to be clarified. Once again, when a married couple have chosen to move together without getting married, it's also their own choice, and for the majority of those who marry, it's a point that the marriage is just something more and something other than a community. Similarly, for the majority of those who choose cohabitation, there is a point that cohabitation is something different and somewhat less binding than a marriage. It is quite right, as was said earlier in the debate here, that it has not been long since we discussed a similar proposal. The Progress Party and I are at least on the line that we haven't changed our position in a little year. There are still things that make it particularly difficult for the state to intervene in the private lives of people in this area, and I believe that is true no matter how good the intention is. Those of us who have been contacted, perhaps especially from women who have been in a very difficult situation, understand that it is demanding, and have that sympathy. However, it is important to have ice cream in your stomach – that there should be a difference between these obligations. Nevertheless, the Party of Progress has today entered item No. 1, which is about applying an abject cohabitation law, precisely because we're not afraid of new knowledge. However, we are going to vote against paragraph No. 2 cf. proposal No 1 from SV and Left, because one has just had a major review of the inheritance law and inheritance rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e371	There are many kinds of families and many ways of living together in Norway today. As many as one third of Norwegian couples choose to be cohabitants without marriage. Legal aid organisations, such as JURK, Legal advice for women, experience that a cohabitation agreement has been concluded with cohabitants and that contracts concluded are often inadequate. More than a year ago, SV promoted a proposal for a representative to introduce an abstinent cohabitation law. It was voted down by the bourgeois parties, including the Left. Therefore, it is surprising – but pleasant – that the Left has come up with better ideas and is now promoting a proposal that is supported by a joint committee. SV believes that the time is ripe for a law that is adapted to a modern age, where people choose different ways of living together. An up-to-date law will be an important measure to ensure equality and to prevent a party from falling into poverty traps in the event of a life crime or death. There should still be a distinction between marriage and cohabitation. It is important that the law reflects this, and that the law is made completely negligent. Today, many consensual residents have not decided how to distribute values until the breakup is a fact. The distribution can often be difficult when broken, and many are surprised at how little protection they have. Norway has received criticism from the UN Committee on Women’s Discrimination because of the lack of legal regulation for cohabitants. Norway was invited to take the legal measures necessary to guarantee women in cohabitation the same economic protection as married women. Experience has shown that there are often men who pay the mortgage on the house and the cabin and save on pensions, while women cover the family's consumption costs. The consequences, as the Right Representative said, are often that men’s investments increase in value, while women’s financial contributions are eaten up. Therefore, the lack of a cohabitation law can constitute a poverty trap and a gender issue for women. A renegade cohabitation law could make settlements easier and fairer after the end of cohabitation and could serve as a safety net for those cohabiters who are not economically equal. SV supports the proposal to strengthen the rights of cohabitants in the Inheritance Act. We believe that it is a natural consequence of the investigation into an abject cohabitation law that we also look at how cohabitants can be secured against falling into the poverty traps of death. It is a delicate topic, and the consideration of any legacy of the dead must be balanced against the ability of surviving parties to live on without major economic challenges. But more people today are changing life’s side of life. Therefore, choosing a partner or a marriage should not be the only determining factor in life’s being left alone. I would like to address the proposal from the SV and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e388	The representative Kathy Lie has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e393	Red will support almost every proposal that promotes equality. It's particularly nice today to give its voice to a proposal that actually seems to be able to get a majority in this room, because it's unfortunately too often far away from words to action in equality matters. We should remember that the biases that exist in these matters often affect women. This pulpit is really a good speaker for us feminist, but the hall has yet another way to go to be a good place for feminist persuasion and practice. I hope that we can change that, and that today is the beginning of that. Red is in favour of a cohabitation law to ensure financial security for both parties in the event of a breakup or death. When we are, it's because we know that there's one of many important steps on the way to women's economic autonomy. There are women who are most economically affected in most of the broken lives, precisely because there are women who are still the most at home with children, there are women who work the most part-time, and there are women who get the worst pay, almost no matter what kind of job you might have. We know that women pay consumption costs, while men pay down on loans and assets that are not divided by a break in the cohabitation. This is what happens, and it has to be addressed. The marriage law takes this into account, but it doesn't help much when more and more of us choose other forms of living. Organizing one's own life or relationship as it should suit us, must be a right every couple have. But choosing cohabitation should not give less rights or impose a greater financial burden on society if it comes to an end. A cohabitation law would thus be good for promoting gender equality, but also for aligning our law to the actual reality out there. In actual reality, there are more parties to a breakup than exactly the two that separate. When economic vulnerability and disagreement produce conflict, it can also affect the children. So there is the prospect of giving the whole modern family greater security that makes Red support this proposal. In the comments on the case, the Right concerns the intervention in private life by introducing such a law. That's where the aberration comes in. You can agree not to the provisions of the law, but only after both parties have agreed to it, knowing the respective investments they make in society. That's what's the big difference. I am much more concerned that Norway has been punished by the United Nations for the lack of regulation of coexistence, as far back as 2012, and it is only now that it may seem that there is a political will to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e406	There seems to be a relatively broad political consensus that there is a need for a change in this area. The left is incredibly happy that we are now taking the first step towards an abject cohabitation. For the Left, it is natural that those who choose to live in cohabitation rather than marriage can benefit from a basic financial security. The world is changing, and more and more live in consensual union. The left believes that people should choose the forms they want as a framework for their lives. The law must then be up-to-date and underpin these forms of life. Property relationships in life have been regulated equally little in the past. In the 1970s, the case law needed to change the property relationship between spouses, precisely because the development of society had gone faster than the law. Fortunately, the Stortinget got a helping hand from the Supreme Court when, in 1975, they decided in the ‘housewife’ that work in the home could give co-ownership rights to the spouse’s common dwelling. Cohabitation is already recognised as a legal and economic entity in several other areas of law, such as: in the Law on Legal Aid or in Social Security. Cohabitation is also well established in Norwegian law through the concept of ‘reality-like relationships’. It therefore seems paradoxical that the law still lacks regulation of the property relationship between cohabitants in the event of a breakup and that there is too little regulation in the event of death. The UN has criticised Norway for this right-wing space and pointed out that women are particularly affected. Concerns are expressed that female cohabitants do not have the same economic rights and protection when society goes into disintegration. It is then asked to take the necessary legal measures to guarantee that women in cohabitation enjoy the same financial protection as married women. It is high time to investigate an abject cohabitation law. That is only how we can keep up with social development, respond to the criticism of the UN and ensure coherence in the law. As the situation is now, couples moving together are free to enter into a cohabitation agreement in order to secure legal certainty in the event of a breakup. However, the Judicial Aid Organisation, JURK, points out that there are many who are not aware that they should conclude a cohabitation agreement or that the agreement they have does not meet their objectives. They also stress that these challenges cannot be solved with rights-only information. It is true that the right of inheritance of the cohabitant is also to be investigated, especially because the cohabitants who do not have children today do not have the right to remain in the same housing, which may have major consequences for the individual. We would like to welcome the further treatment and investigation of abstinent cohabitation, and we look forward to the government returning with a bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e423	This is a matter that we in the Center Party have been concerned about over time. In the previous period, the justice and family and culture fractions of the party organised a seminar with the participation of most parties in the Stortinget on this particular issue – in cooperation with the Sanity Women and the JURK. Then, at Stortinget, we became very well aware of challenging statistics that suggest that a break-up for cohabitants is rapidly affecting the economy, and that there are, to a large extent, women who get the worst out. We have after that experience that there are more and more people who would warmly welcome an abject cohabitation. But we in the Center Party believe that in this context it is very important to stress that it is always and must be up to each couple to choose their approach in a way of life. Someone chooses marriage, while someone chooses or prefers cohabitation. Both parts are law, and the state must guard itself to intervene too deeply in the choices of individuals. It is not suggested to create a separate cohabitation law, even if it is never so negligent. And even though we in the Center Party also recognize that in practice there are a lot of misunderstandings and lack of knowledge related to what commoner agreements should and can contain, we also think that it is only 15 pst. of the consensual residents having a consensual contract, are concerned. That is why, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, as late as June 2021, we promoted a proposal to investigate an aberrant cohabitation law. At the time, the party did not vote in favour of today's proposals, nor did the rest of the civil wing. That's why we in the Central Party today are pleased to note that there is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy to go in to get such an investigation, and I look forward to it. Proposal No. On the other hand, to ask the government to propose to strengthen the rights of the cohabitants in the inheritance law, we in the Central Party will not vote in favour, as it was not adopted after the Stortinge had a thorough treatment of the inheritance law, where this aspect was part of the treatment. But it is worth noting that new rules of procedure were adopted at that time, etc. to strengthen the position of co-residents in the Inheritance Act and the Community Household Act. Those rules entered into force as early as 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e432	I am pleased that the Committee supports an investigation of abstinent cohabitation, as the Labour Party and the Centre also voted for when a similar proposal was discussed last summer. At the time it was SV who had promoted an almost equivalent representative proposal, which was contested in Stortinget. It did not get a majority, among other things. because the Party of the Left voted against the proposal. I note that the Left has come up with different ideas and has promoted a proposal almost in line with what was last year, and I appreciate that. The representative proposal made by the representatives of the Left is thus far on the road in line with last year's Stortinget. I think people should be free to choose how they want to organize their own lives. There are many who choose to be cohabiters as an alternative to marriage, which are economically more obligating. There may be many reasons why cohabiters do not want greater economic convergence and it should be fully possible to stand free to choose this for themselves. In addition, cohabitants may regulate their rights by means of a Memorandum of Understanding and will. At the same time, many people lack knowledge of what should be included in a cohabitation agreement and there may be a difficult issue between the parties. Many, especially women, suffer financially from a break-up. This may be an argument for enhanced protection, not least for cohabitants who have children together. That is why I support an investigation of an aberrant cohabitation law. More knowledge is needed to assess the need for any new legislation and its design. I note that the minority of the committee also proposes that the government submit proposals to strengthen the rights of the cohabitants in the inheritance law. Then I would like to remind others that the new inheritance law came into force on 1 January 2021. Before Stortinget passed the Act in 2019, the issue of the inheritance status of the cohabitants was thoroughly investigated and evaluated. The size decided on today's solution, where protection is essentially unchanged. Inheritance rules are practically important rules for citizens. I believe the legislator has a responsibility to make sure that they are stable, so that people can correct themselves afterwards, and I believe that there is not enough reason to raise that question again now. An aberrant cohabitation law should be further investigated, and I will not prejudge the conclusion as to what a final law might look like, or whether we will present it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e465	For me, Christmas's strongest reading experience was an article series in the Evening Magazine. Through targeted work over time, Stavanger Aftenblad has revealed that at least 87 Nordics have been killed abroad since the millennium. I was very surprised at the extent, and I'm probably not alone about it. Norwegian authorities do not have an overview of such killings, suspicious deaths or mysterious disappearances beyond Norway’s borders. Several relatives are dissatisfied with the follow-up they have received after experiencing the loss of one of their closest friends in other countries. Nor does the Norwegian authorities have an overview of ordinary citizens being killed outside Norwegian borders, or incorporated procedures to follow up the investigation in the country where the demise has taken place. We know most of all about victims and perpetrators, ranging from drug influence to age, sex, scene and cause of murder. We know all that about killings that happen in Norway, but if the killings happen abroad, nothing is recorded in a common overview – not where they happen, not who is being robbed of life, not how or why a Norwegian is killed, or whether the case is resolved. Not even the number of killings in Norwegian citizens has been reported by the authorities. A number of relatives all over the country live in uncertainty and wonder. They wonder about the fate of their neighbors. Killing Norwegian citizens often takes place without anyone being brought to justice. In as many as 49 of the 87 killings that the Evening Leaf has mapped, it's uncertain whether anyone has had to stand up to the facts. In nine of these killings, different terrorist groups have taken responsibility for the upheavals. I believe it is of general interest to have an official overview of killings on the Nordics abroad. The extent of this is greater than one could expect. Relatively speaking, it's not 10 pst. by all the Nordics abroad at all times, the rate of the killing of the Nordics abroad must be higher than that of the country. Special impressions make it possible to read if the experiences of several relatives have been experienced. That's why we need a better overview. Many relatives are not even informed that they may be entitled to an assistant lawyer in the context of foreign dripping. We have a lot to learn from other countries here. Lawyer Patrick Lundevall-Hungary believes that Norwegian authorities treat Norwegian victims of killing abroad and their relatives so badly that he will sue Norway before the International Court of Human Rights. He says, ‘Norway not only violates a fundamental principle that the survivors are entitled to assistance, for example by failing in many cases to disclose the possibility of seeking an aid lawyer on behalf of the public. In addition, the Convention on Human Rights upholds the rights of the deceased. There is a post-mortem requirement which states that even when a person has gone missing, he is entitled to a fair trial.» The handling by the Norwegian authorities of cases in which Norwegians are killed or disappeared in mysterious circumstances abroad has been a political issue several times in the last decades, but many of those affected by such killings are still very dissatisfied with the assistance of Norwegian authorities and police. Many representatives before me have addressed this issue, and many government councils before the Council of State Mehl has answered. Something has happened, especially U.D. has got better routines and follow-up in this field. But now I'm the judicial spokesman and mehl who is the Minister of Justice, and I hope that together we can make progress in this matter, especially with regard to the legal rights of the survivors and the need for better follow-up. That's why I'm excited about how the Council of State is dealing with this case complex. To sum up, Stavanger Aftenblad has documented in an article series that at least 87 Nordics have been killed abroad after the millennium, and has revealed that there are no official statistics to that effect. The number of Nordics killed abroad is 10 pst. of the total number of deaths but not included in the statistics. It is of general interest to have an official survey of killings on Nordics abroad. Many of the relatives after such killings are very dissatisfied with the assistance of the Norwegian authorities and the police. This requires more detailed discussion. We need to put in place systems for reporting and recording such information, as well as providing relatives with better follow-up and assistance when their loved ones are killed abroad. So then I wonder, how will the Minister of Justice follow up this issue, so that we get a better overview and ensure better follow-up of relatives to the Nordics killed abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e487	I would like to thank the representative for addressing an important topic. Initially, I want to make it quite clear that the government is concerned that information about killing committed abroad and caring for relatives who have lost one of their loved ones in this way should be as good as possible. I have a great understanding that such situations are very difficult for the survivors. Lack of information and, in some cases, ambiguity associated with any criminal prosecution in the country where the facts have been committed can, as most will understand, constitute a considerable additional burden in an already very demanding situation. In Norway, Kripos is the author of the annual list of deaths. It is published annually and covers all killings committed in Norway or on board Norwegian ships in international waters irrespective of the nationality of perpetrators and victims. The aim of this summary of killings is primarily to address the need of police and prosecution authorities to have an accurate and up-to-date overview of killings. In addition, the overview is used as a basis for assessing trends and trends with the aim of strengthening control and implementing prevention measures. Similarly, most other countries will have their own registers. The government has not so far assessed the need to establish its own register of Nordics killed abroad. I would like to point out at the outset that it is not certain that such a register is the right instrument to ensure better follow-up of the survivors in these cases. Such a register will have little impact on police investigations or assistance to investigate such cases. In addition, the challenges such a register could face for data quality assurance. We have to agree that many of the issues in question that are part of the figures the representative referred to are likely to occur in conflict areas or in very difficult-to-reach countries, where it may be very challenging to obtain sufficient information. With regard to international cooperation, Norwegian police are a high priority, and continuous efforts are being made to improve both the legal and not least the more practical conditions for good police cooperation. But it will vary the extent to which Norwegian police are involved or receive information from the authorities of other countries when Norwegian citizens are killed. Under certain circumstances, killings on Norwegian citizens and other residents of Norway may be investigated by Norwegian police even if the act has taken place abroad. But it rarely happens. As long as the case is investigated abroad, what Norwegian police and prosecution authorities can do is often limited. It is for practical reasons, but not least for legal reasons. It is more common for the Norwegian police to provide assistance to the investigation carried out by foreign police. In both cases, you are dependent on the exchange of information. Under international agreements, there are established channels such as Interpol, Europol, our Nordic police officers or with direct bilateral cooperation. As regards the care of related persons, the authorities of the State in which the killing was carried out are initially responsible for following up the survivors. Norwegian authorities assist foreign authorities in contacting survivors if requested by foreign authorities. In those cases where the Norwegian police have a role to play, it may be appropriate to establish a separate contact with relatives responsible for following up the survivors, this is also done. The Norwegian authorities may also request foreign authorities to be kept informed of an ongoing case in order to be able to keep the survivors informed again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e504	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State shows an understanding of the issue and shows that it has an overview of what is the law and responsibility in force. I have not been asked to set up my own register in this context, but I am concerned that we need to get a better overview. It is obvious that the authorities do not have a good enough overview of this field. It's a little special that there's a newspaper editorial in Stavanger that does the job of getting an overview of the last 20 years. What I'm most concerned about are the survivors, the survivors' position and the situation they're in. We've had some issues that have been very prominent in the media, which have received a lot of attention, and where you've also got things, but this applies to a lot more than those that hit the front pages of the biggest newspapers. I do not feel that the Council of State answers how to address the issue, or that one wants to address the issue, but more points to what is the law in force, and what are the responsibilities today. I am not sure if I agree that it is only the responsibility of foreign authorities if a killing by a Norwegian takes place abroad. The Nordics have certain rights when they are abroad, and we have consulate services around the world that are just supposed to take care of the Nordics who are in need. I would like to see the Council of State be more clear on this with e.g. information on setting up a police contact — it is often a point for a relative who is at home — and also on the right to receive an assistant lawyer, which is not well taken care of in Norway. I look forward to a slightly clearer answer around it, and if the Council of State can't answer on a standing footing, we can probably talk about this on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e519	I'm just going to repeat a couple of things from the previous post, and then I'm going to say a little bit about this with an assistant lawyer, as the representative took up. What I said was that in cases where Norwegian citizens are killed abroad, it will vary the extent to which Norwegian police and Norwegian authorities are involved and receive information from the authorities of other countries. It will vary from where it happens, and what kind of agreements you have. Although we would like to contribute more or be closer to a process that is taking place in another country, it may not always be possible because of, for example, jurisdictional rules or legal constraints on where we can exercise our powers, and we will also rely on good cooperation with the country or authorities concerned. Therefore, as I said, we can ask the foreign authority to be kept informed about a case in order to keep the survivors informed in Norway and take care of them, but it is not certain that it will always resolve to the extent that we ourselves wish. As far as this is concerned with an aid lawyer, the aid lawyer’s system applies only to criminal cases handled by Norwegian authorities. It is related to the fact that Norwegian law cannot grant a Norwegian aid lawyer criminal procedural rights in a criminal case dealt with abroad. Whether the death of Norwegian citizens as a result of criminal offences abroad has the right to free legal assistance in criminal proceedings abroad depends initially on the law of the country in which the case is dealt with. By way of exception, if the country concerned does not have an aid lawyer’s system, full or partial free legal advice under the Law on Legal Aid may be granted by the Norwegian side. The conditions under which, in those cases, the freedom to provide legal advice under the Law on Legal Aid is to be granted are that a foreign court or administrative body must have legal proceedings, that it must comply with specific economic conditions and that specific reasons must be given. If such legal aid is provided by the State concerned itself, it is usually first necessary to apply for assistance there. So here there are a lot of different elements in the question of how to better follow up relatives in these cases. There are many different legislations and elements that are relevant to individual cases and how to resolve them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e530	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for seeing an important topic on the agenda through this interpellation. A killing, whether carried out in Norway or abroad, is too much. Either one is abroad on vacation or at work: when one occurs in another country, one is in another culture, and that way the whole family is vulnerable too. The interpellant refers to the series of articles in Stavanger Aftenblad, which documents that at least 87 Nordics have been killed abroad after the millennial shift. It's a high number. We have to bear in mind that these victims cannot speak up, but once again there are even more relatives with questions without answers, who feel that they are not well cared for by Norwegian authorities and Norwegian police. Being a relative and having lost someone, whether it's a son, a daughter, a father or a mother, a brother or a sister, is in any case difficult and hurt. When this happens in another country, far from home, and in an unknown culture, vulnerability becomes even more visible and the days heavy to bear. It is important, as the interpellant refers to, both to get a better overview and to keep some kind of statistics. But it's so important to give assistance and follow up on those who are left with a thousand questions, who need someone to lean on, and who may also need professional help. These relatives live in a municipality, they live between us, and they must be met with help and follow-up. Then we can look at other countries and how they have a system for this that we are now discussing. I have e.g. from the United Kingdom, they have come much further to provide both information and practical assistance and to have a device ready for support. I can read that on the gov.uk website. It's a good page to look at. There's one that needs, and those who have a thousand questions might get help there. There can be no difference between relatives who have experienced losing one of theirs in such a brutal way as killing is, whether it happens in Norway or abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e543	In its second statement, the Council of State stated that jurisdiction in different countries determines what the Norwegian authorities can and will know, and to what extent they are involved. It's obvious, but it also means that we have to be careful to keep these international collaborations warm. I would encourage the Council of State to continue good cooperation with police authorities and others abroad. As the Council of State had in mind, free judicial advice in Norway may be granted within certain criteria, even if such a relationship has occurred abroad. The conditions were informed from the pulpit. But there may be something the Council of State can look at in the light of this debate. I am sure that both the Council of State and the President were surprised by the large number of foreign killings. When we see how much attention a killing takes place in Norway, and how much resources are put into such cases, it's strange if someone -- let's say it was my son -- gets killed abroad, and all of a sudden it doesn't matter to Norwegian authorities. There is a very wide variation in the attention given to this, from both police authorities, the media and others. But those conditions might be something you can look at further. It's stated that there's a lot of different legislation that goes into each other here. Well, then we have a fantastic government, a fantastic government and a government – at least we had a fantastic government – that might see this in context, and that could work on getting it cleaned up. My commitment to this matter is about the relatives. When a person is killed, we never get that person back. Of course, it's important that those or those who have done it are taken, but my commitment here is for those who are left in Norway with many questions and get answers. Then perhaps the most important thing is that families who experience something like that have a place to go, and that in the police there might be a better system, with follow-up and a contact person to whom you can ask all these questions. For most people – not everyone – it will be the first time you've been hit by a killing in their close circle. Of course, it's a jittery experience, but maybe this discussion can make us a little bit neater when it comes to this. Finally, I would like to thank the representative of Byrknes for his support and good input. As she said, we have a lot to learn from our neighboring countries in this field. We can get better. I'm not looking to take the Council of States, but I'm looking to get a better cooperation with the Council of States to maybe improve this point. I think I'm the sixth representative in the last 30 years who's been calling for better arrangements in this field, without anything happening. So this isn't about blaming anybody, it's about finding solutions together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e556	Every year, more than 1000 Norwegian citizens die outside the borders of the country. The vast majority of these deaths relate to conditions other than killing. These are, according to the Norwegian authorities, largely sickness, old age or accidents. There are established regular procedures between foreign stations, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Kripos for alerting deaths abroad to Norwegian authorities. The EEAS assists in the recording of deaths by sending a notification of deaths to the public register. However, notification of deaths does not include any cause of death. If there is evidence that a death is suspected, the EEAS will pass the information on to Kripos immediately. In all cases of death, the foreign service will provide consular assistance at the request of its dependants. The assistance may consist of practical information on insurance and home transport of the deceased, or there may be other practical assistance. If the deceased were killed, the foreign service may also be a link up with the authorities of the country concerned, but local authorities will always be responsible for investigation and prosecution. And, as I have said several times in this debate, it will vary how much information is shared with the Norwegian authorities. Experience shows that the need for and desire for consular assistance varies greatly among the relatives. The EEAS cannot order anyone to receive consular assistance, and it will also apply to relatives. Having said that, I believe that the representative addresses something important. It is important that we have good follow-up — to the extent that we are responsible for and able to do so — by relatives and survivors after those who unfortunately are killed abroad. This is very stressful for those who are involved. I will definitely continue to have attention in this area. It's limited what we can do on a case-by-case basis, but we have to use that space of action and the possibilities we have to make sure that we see the people who are in a very difficult situation, as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e569	The interpellant debate is closed. There will now be a break in Stortingen's negotiations, and there will be a call to voting at 4 p.m. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e592	The size is then ready to vote on the items on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e658	During the debate, Mr Björn Moxnes presented a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The majority requests the Presidency to amend the rules of the Grand Duchy commuter housing so that the residence is not made available free of charge to representatives who own more than one dwelling from before, without a documented specific need.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Presidency will be rejected. The Presidency had advised the Storting to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e695	During the debate, Kathy Lie presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose to strengthen the rights of the cohabitants in the Inheritance Act.’ The Greens and the Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e724	Case No. 4 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e768	The president proposed that the draft representative be sent to the Economic and Social Committee. The representative, Mr Jørgensen, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e775	With regard to this proposal, which is about resuming negotiations on the agricultural settlement for 2021, we ask that Section 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the urgent paragraph, be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e780	Alternatively, the proposal of the President for committee procedure and the proposal of the Red Committee on the procedure under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e792	Further referenced: Eight. Representative proposals by Sylvi Listhaug, Hans Andreas Limi, Silje Hemdal, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Carl I. Hagen and Christian Tybring-Gended to set up an independent aid commission (Document 8:83 S [[234]] [[2021-2022]] Samr. : Be sent to the Foreign and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-03.ana.ud435e801	So the things on today's map are done. Ask for the word before raising a meeting? - The meeting has been cancelled.
