ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e37	Honourable co-representatives! Former Swedish Depositary Representative Sven Trygve Falck passed away on 27 August 2019, at 76 years of age. Falck was born in Tønsberg and graduated as a civil engineer from the chemistry line at the Norwegian Technical College in 1967. Before that, in high school, he stayed a year as a scholarship student at Santa Barbara High School in the United States. Engineering training at NTH and the year as an exchange student led to an international industrial career, first in Texas and then in West Germany, before being picked up as an environmental protection officer at Norsk Hydro. In this company, he advanced to be an engineer at the plant of Raffnes and later to be a senior engineer at the plant in Porsgroen. Here he was until he was elected to the Stortinget in 1981. Falck represented Telemark and Right of the Stortinget from 1981 to 1985. Prior to this, he was an alternate member and later a member of the Porsgrund Municipal Government, Telemark County Council and Telemark County Committee and vice-chairman of the Telemark County School Board. He was also vice president of Porsgrund Right and board member of Telemark Right. With Falck's professional and business background, the Swedish Energy and Industry Committee was a natural first choice, and here he was a member for four years. At Stortinget he was a co-worker with friends in most parties. However, it was with one period at Stortinget before he left active policy in 1985. After the period at Stortinget, Falck returned to engineering and industry and led or put in selected positions in a number of industrial establishments to a long way up in retirement. In his spare time he would like to go hunting, with small and large game hunting in Hedmark and Telemark and week-long fishing trips in the high mountain to provide raw material for the harvest and winter aquifers. Good friends reported that he was always central to the lively and moody talk beyond in the small hours, always with a good story in stock and a glimpse into the eye. Sven Trygve Falck leaves himself many good memories. Astrid Gjertsen, former mayor and councillor, passed away on 17 June last year, at 91 years of age. Astrid Gjertsen was born in Horsens, Denmark and grew up on a farm in Jutland. The fact that Norway was to become her home country and where she had a brilliant career must be said to be a destiny. She worked as a gymnast in the spring of 1945 as a volunteer for the Red Cross in a People's Bernadotte camp at Horsens. There she cared for Norwegian survivors from German prisons, who received a healthful stay in Denmark on their way home to Norway with the white buses. There is a close and special contact with one of the released Norwegian prisoners – he who became her spouse the following year. 18 years old she accompanied him to Norway. In 1953, the couple bought a property on Borøya in Tvedestrand and moved with their two children from Oslo to the South. The property was overgrown, but they transformed it by years of effort into an impressive gardening plant that rightly bore its name «Rosenlund». It was no coincidence that in the years that followed, she became a lovely speaker on gardening. People came from far away to see her masterpiece, and her party has had many a summer collection in the park-like beautiful garden. Astrid Gjertsen's political racetrack began as elected to the Tvedestrand municipal government and chairmanship of the Right in 1967. When she was elected to represent East-Agder in 1973, she was one of the very first female candidates to top the list of her party, and the first major representative ever born in another country. She quickly gained national trust as well. She was a member of the group board of the Højre Storingsgruppe from 1973 to 1981, the second Vice-Chairman of the Right from 1978 to 1982 and the Minister of Consumers and Administration of the Willoch Government from 1981 to 1986. She was a staging representative until 1989. Astrid Gjertsen was a reformer who in important areas helped make everyday life easier for most people. She will be remembered as the politician who opened Norway and eased on rigid regulations. In the 1960s and 1970s, more and more women went into paid employment. Stores closed after 8 p.m. 17, became a hindrance to many of them. Astrid Gjertsen so brighter than most that times had changed. Under the slogan ‘A more open society’, she struggled through reforms that most people today see as self-evident. We light peace over Sven Trygve Falcks and Astrid Gjertsen's memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e75	The representative Eigil Knutsen shall apply for welfare leave from 5 to 8 April. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Benjamin Jakobsen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e95	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e100	I would like to promote a proposal from the representative of Sveinung Rotevatn and myself to ensure access to health professionals in primary care throughout Norway by ensuring continued access to the recruitment agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e105	The representative of Mona Fagerås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e110	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Ingrid Fiskaa, Birgit Oline Kjerstad and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on alternatives to ferry-free E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e116	The representative, Mr Grete Wold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e121	On behalf of the representatives of Marian Hussein, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken, Kathy Lie and myself, I would like to propose a rapid and good integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e126	The representative of Ola Elvestuen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e131	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Guri Melby, Sveinung Rotevatn, Alfred Jens Bjørlo and myself to reach Norway's goal of 30 p.m. the protection of nature by 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e136	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e154	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e161	As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its commitment, work and cooperation in this matter. The background to the case is a proposal from the Progress Party, which requires the government to ensure that the necessary instructions for the State Road Service, the Tolletaten and the police are developed to ensure that the lawhouse for the detention of a train until the fee has been paid and is not rectified, will be used in cases where verification reveals that the vehicle does not have satisfactory winter equipment or is in a technical state challenging road safety. One also asks the government to extend the possibility of imposing a temporary ban on two-axle towing vehicles when conditions and conditions during the winter period warrant it. So I'm going to make some comments about the matter as a committee member. This is an important issue that concerns the safety of those who travel along our roads. Equal conditions of competition are important. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party have jointly and through the Hurdal Platform anchored important steps in order to have a serious and good transport industry. Today, the State Road Service and the police have the right to prohibit the use of vehicles that do not have running characteristics that provide adequate grip for the driver. Such prohibitions are given after a health assessment, where weather and traffic conditions, number of axles and weight distribution are relevant moment(s). It is not automatic that two-axle tractors have worse grips than those with more axles as long as they have the right weight distribution and their own winter equipment. An indication of the best possible appearance is sufficient weight on driving wheels in relation to the total weight of the combination. However, multi-axled tractors may often have improved their performance on Norwegian winter roads. The government is now working on an action plan against social dumping in the transport sector – a plan mentioned in the Hurdal Platform. The Centre Party and the Workers' Party are pleased to facilitate wide involvement in this work, including: through the recording meeting with the industry itself. Such a plan would not only have an impact on the working conditions of those adding and ensuring fair competition, but it could also contribute to creating an even more serious industry with actors who take serious responsibility for compliance. Low-wage pressure, lawbreakers and pure social dumping are making the driving profession less attractive to Norwegian young people. It is important to call around Norwegian professional drivers and ensure that the driver profession has good working and pay conditions, so that Norwegian youth can be confident that they will have a good and safe job if they are well trained as a professional driver. Legislation and control must be streamlined in order to detect legal and social dumping and reduce the low-wage pressure. There is also a need to improve the welfare of roadside workers. This will in turn strengthen road safety, as the plan will also include measures in areas where a believer generates good traffic gains, including: strengthening supervision and control activities, information actions and information exchanges, strengthening tripartite cooperation and cooperation between etaters, and strengthening competence in transport industries. With this, we in the Center Party believe that in the future it will be more important to strengthen the framework of the supervisory authorities, so that we can have more controls and discover faults and lack of wagon trains on the Norwegian road, than to come with new regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e180	It is affordable for the proposers to address the need for effective heavy-duty car control for safer roads. This is something the Workers' Party has made several proposals in recent years, both to improve road safety and to help the serious transport sector with a level playing field and to prevent social dumping. It is very important for road safety and accessibility that vehicles are in good technical condition and properly equipped in accordance with the legislation — perhaps especially during wintertime. Today, the vehicle may be detained to ensure payment of fines and an infringement fee. We dealt with a change in the Road Traffic Act and the Labour Transport Act in Stortinget in December 2020, where the undersigned was the case rapporteur. We had then for several years requested a permit to stop and restrain a vehicle that violates Norwegian law. Thus, the state road service and the police already have the right to prohibit the use of vehicles which do not have driving characteristics that provide sufficient traction for the driver. Such a prohibition shall be applied following an overall assessment where weather and driving conditions, number of axles and weight distribution are relevant. The challenge has been that there has not been enough resources put in place across the sectors to control heavy goods vehicles, perhaps especially to follow up the findings of the controls, for example. by the Labour Inspectorate. The government has already done something about this in the current fiscal year, including: by increasing the resources of the Labour Inspectorate. The use of more and more digital and intelligent solutions makes it possible to have more efficient and cost-effective vehicle controls. Now there are some facts: in 2021 almost 80,000 heavy car checks were carried out in Norway. We found faults and deficiencies in 43 000 of the checks. That equals 54 pst. But that does not mean that there are errors and defects in more than half of the vehicle combinations on the roads in Norway. The vast majority of heavy cars running on Norwegian roads are all in order. That there are so many defects and deficiencies on so many of them that are being picked out for control shows that you are getting more and more attractive and better at picking out the right vehicles and drivers. Our government is now embarking on an action plan against social dumping in the transport sector. A wide range of involvement in this work has been provided through participation meetings with the industry. This will also increase and strengthen road safety, as it will include measures and areas that are expected to bring good road safety benefits, including: strengthened supervisory and control activities, information measures and information exchanges, enhanced tripartite cooperation and cooperation between departments and enhancing the competence of the transport industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e191	Traffic safety should always sit in the high seat; we should always go as far as we can to increase road safety. We have come a long way in many areas. At the same time, there are some areas where it is necessary to adjust the course or tighten it up a little, so that we correct and improve decisions already taken. This is such a case. It assumes that it has been done very well, but where one in retrospect sees that it is possible to correct the course. In the right we recognise that the State Road Administration and the police are already authorised to prohibit the use of vehicles that do not have driving characteristics that provide sufficient traction for the driver. The provisions opening up the detention of vehicles in order to ensure that the fees are paid were amended in 2020 under the Solberg Government. The vast majority of vehicle combinations are in good technical condition and relate to the legislation as they will. The Solberg administration ensured that several roadside checks were carried out and the number of checks on non-resident vehicle combinations along the borders increased markedly. When we receive feedback in retrospect that car combinations with bad tyres or missing chains are allowed to continue running – only the fee imposed if there are good driving conditions at the checkpoint – we need to tighten the rules a little more. A driver who originates in countries with milder climate south of us can easily forget to bring a chain when they travel from land with autumn and rusty brown colors in the trees to a land with winter and snow cover on the ground. Long distances and different driving conditions are no excuse to continue without chain. There must then be a driving ban. It may not be possible for a truck to continue driving because there are good driving conditions on the spot when control officers know that the trailer is entering the road network with poor driving conditions. At short distances there may be considerable differences in road quality, gripping and wintering. This legislation has to go inward. We agree with the Progress Party that it is appropriate and appropriate to consider whether the State Road Service should be given extended opportunities to impose a temporary ban on the use of two-axle towing vehicles in winter. The investigation – that is the investigation we are talking about, not a ban – has also been adopted in Sweden and is absolutely interesting. The proposals do not seem to have a majority in this Chamber; I am surprised that the government parties and SV are voting against a proposal that strengthens road safety. It surprises me that road safety is going into a future case by the government dealing with social dumping. One thing that strengthens employees' rights, I suppose, contains other elements than one thing like this, which goes so directly to road safety. It should therefore be very interesting to see how a case of social dumping is going to deal with these proposals, which are going so directly to road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e202	Would you like to make some suggestions, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e207	Well, that's the Progress Party... yeah, I'll take up suggestions. I'm sorry, I assumed the Progress Party would take them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e212	Then we wait patiently for the Advancement Party. [[humming in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e217	It was the voice of the previous representative to let the Progress Party bring up the great, good proposals. We are very pleased about that. Thus, at some times in this country, car trains are scattered around the ditch, and this is a major challenge. I think it is surprising that the majority in this Chamber will not be on the proposals when we know that the inspectors standing here in the East know that the vehicle train is going to the West on a really bad weather day. It's okay to stand here in the East because the lead is just like that it's okay to drive a normal car. But at the moment you come across Haukeli and further across the West, it's queue, cork and chaos. Many of the cars are in the ditch because they are not equipped to drive on those roads. I feel sorry for the inspector who is standing there and knows where the car should be and who knows that there is a risk for everyone else who is driving on the same road, because the car or equipment is not rusted to drive there. It's also special when someone says we're going to come back to this when we're going to discuss social dumping. I agree that it is important to discuss social dumping, but we cannot wait for this, as the Labour Party and the Center Party do. I dare remind you that the representative of the Workers' Party is standing on this pulpit and says that they have been in favour of this before, but that they are voting it today. It's silly, at least I think. It might be dangerous to say nonsense, but that's a little bit how it feels. The center party was also out in 2019 and said that we have to clean this up, and that we have to make sure to do something about this. And then you sit in this room today and you vote against it – probably because there is another party that made proposals, which everyone in the Chamber really agrees with. When someone tries to pretend that a two-axled car – if the weight is only distributed like that; there is something quite different to driving on really poor wintering. Then the car is worse and has less accessibility because it makes a difference if it is a two-axle or three-axle car – this becomes a little technical, but it is perhaps because I have worked a lot with this problem. That's why we know – I think almost you can ask any wagon driver in this country who runs on these roads – that a three-axle car is a much better condition for getting across mountain passes than a two-axle car is, because you can lower tyres etc., which means you get better grip on the road. It's not worse than that, it's not more hokus than that. I had hoped – when the majority really agrees and has expressed themselves in fines and buckets around how important it is to do something about this – that it was not that we could not vote for it because we are in government. I am also surprised, because I have been in many debates in this Chamber where road safety has been at the very top of the agenda on what has been important. This is road safety. And then I hear you say that most car trains running around this country are well equipped. Yes, fortunately – most Norwegian carriers run with good equipment, and it is also foreign carriers who run with good equipment. But there are many foreign freight trains around this country that should not have been driven here, and that should have been stopped, but as the poor people who are about to control this, let go on because they do not have this as they need it. That is why we are promoting this proposal. It's not because we've been sitting in an office here in the house and we're thinking this is smart. We've done it because we've been talking to people who are controllers around the country, and who feel that they don't have the tools they need to be able to hold back – to make sure it's safe to travel, even for everyone else on the road. That's what this is all about. Just as we have to get started much faster to get that we're charging instead of fines, because fines allow us to start the mill and the bureaucracy and make sure you can run away. If you pay fees, you have to pay them there and there. Then at least the discussion becomes a little different, because there's one thing the unprofessional senses: money. Then we have to make sure that the incentive to operate as they do is reduced – that it becomes less lucrative – just to ensure that we have a good and tidy industry. I know that it's okay to turn around in time, and I hope that the majority sees that voting down these proposals is incredibly stupid. So I hope you turn around – because it is possible to turn around in time. It will be very good for the Norwegian transport industry, and it will be very good for the road safety of all those who drive on our roads every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e236	I then perceive that the representative thanks for the roughness and addresses the proposals made by the minority in the case. The President is also grateful when the representatives themselves point out their unparliamentary expressions in the speeches. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e241	I wish that this proposal for a representative had been more concerned with one of the really major challenges in the heavy transport sector: social dumping. We need to ensure that drivers have a good working day and that operators have a level playing field. To the representatives Bård Hoksrud and Erlend Larsen I would say: there is a clear link between road safety, accidents and pay and working conditions in the industry. This is interrelated, and therefore much more needs to be done to combat social dumping in the transport sector. This is a very serious aspect of Norwegian transport and the entire Norwegian transport industry on the road. As many people have experienced, we often see headlines about large car combinations that stand across the road in winter – poorly equipped car combinations and poorly trained drivers. But that's just the top of the iceberg. I wish that this proposal for a representative had been about the working conditions of drivers, a breach of cabotage legislation and, in part, driving and rest periods. What we're talking about here is, first of all, the differences between foreign and Norwegian carriers and drivers in cross-border transport. We then need to talk about pay and employment, but also about the competitive conditions of Norwegian transport companies, because this is also quite essential. The second point, of course, is the environmental question. More and more goods go on rubber wheels, while goods on rails and keel are losers. While nine out of ten shopping carts I drove home from the grocery store just a few years ago came with Ofotbanen, there are only seven out of ten shopping carts coming via the railway today. The railroad's gonna lose it right here. There are three issues related to safety, which relate to poorly protected foreign vehicle combinations and lack of driving skills of foreign drivers, with the result that the roads become unsafe. We have seen a huge increase in foreign car trains on Norwegian roads. SV has previously mentioned poor control of non-resident wagon trains in Norway. One of the big problems is that we don't have a full overview of how many car combinations are in this country, what they do, and even if they comply with the laws and regulations. We don't have an overview. The first bid for all decisions in all administration, regardless of area, is that we need to have knowledge. We need to know what we're talking about, and we don't know that. SV has repeatedly proposed a digital transport register. I know that the transport industry's organisations are now becoming rather impatient. Finally, the SV will point to the possibility of too strict a right of detention in the event of a breach of laws and regulations. It is perhaps the strongest instrument we have in the event of a breach of existing legislation – it may be both cabotage legislation and other legislation – that we can stop the car combinations from moving on before the card is withdrawn, i.e. before any due fees and past debts have been paid. So the vehicle can be detained to ensure payment of fines and infringement fees. The state road authority and the police are already authorised to prohibit the use of vehicles which do not have the driving characteristics which provide sufficient traction for the driver. But they may have to have the right instruments and perhaps even more resources to enforce the legislation. This article may have been more about what the representative proposal from the Progress Party should have contained than what it actually contained, but that is why SV does not support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e259	We have no one to lose on the roads – not we who sit here in the hall and have this debate, nor those who are on the outside here. Unfortunately, every year we lose people – children and families – in traffic, and when the greatest tonnage on the roads is involved in accidents, the outcome is often fatal. Red will support the proposal put forward today by the Progress Party. Of course, it is easy to hold a debate on what this proposal does not contain, but there is something quite different. We regard this proposal as a tightening up of something that is also important to us in Red: getting control and getting stronger efforts against the most unprofessional on the roads. I see no reason that such a tightening should be problematic for some parties. In addition to the tragic outcome of such accidents, we know that this also has great costs for society and for the country. In the part of the country I come from, if one road is blocked, there is no bypass. If you are driving on the Kvänang mountain or elsewhere, other traffic must be managed through Finland in order to arrive at it. We know that whether it's fresh fish or what's going on out of the farm, you've been busy, and in many places in the country, when E6 is blocked, there's no other way. It is also easy to ignore technicalities, technical requirements and specifications. The most important measures to prevent multiple accidents and secure roads are to focus on those behind the steering wheel. It's the most important component of all. We therefore support this proposal by the Progress Party today, and then we look forward to support later on when the situation for drivers needs to be highlighted and widely illuminated in this Chamber. We know what has been the development of this sector. Here it sits people and controls these heavy car combinations under the worst working conditions, and this is very important. We look forward to having a major debate on this later, but I just want to signal that we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e272	As others have pointed out, most of the vehicles in Norway are in good technical condition, and they should be. Nevertheless, each year there are examples of combinations of vehicles which do not meet the necessary technical requirements and requirements for winter equipment. I will begin by commending the Progress Party as the proposer, who has been committed for many years to improving road safety in heavy transport. The left has also had the pleasure of being able to participate in many of those actions, both in the budget and in the government. It's done a lot. There has been a good development in recent years. There have been several inspectors, there are new control stations, there is a greater focus on border controls, and, as also pointed out, the number of controls has doubled – in addition to the detention law being investigated with amendments to the Road Traffic Act and the Professional Transport Act in 2020. I'm not going to keep any long posts. I consider these proposals to be a strengthening of many of the measures taken in recent years, and the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1) to reinforce the instructions to follow the legislative changes adopted in 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e283	I agree with the representatives that it is very important for road safety and the availability of winter vehicles in good technical condition and that they are properly equipped in accordance with the legislation. Fortunately, most transport industries are also engaged in safe transport and take responsibility for complying seriously with the legislation. In the absence of compliance, effective detection and enforcement of infringements is important for reasons of both road safety and accessibility. Of course, it is my clear expectation that this will happen. I would like to point out that bans on use and detention are two different instruments for different purposes. Prohibition of use shall ensure that vehicles liable to present a traffic hazard are not allowed to continue running. The right of withdrawal is used to ensure that the person who has received a fine or an infringement fee for infringements actually pays. A vehicle may be detained where necessary to ensure payment of fines and infringement fees. This right of detention strengthens the preventative effect of sanctions by reducing the risk of being unable to pay. The state road authorities state that most of the infringement charges imposed for lack of winter equipment are paid. The right of withdrawal may only be exercised where necessary, i.e. where there is reason to believe that the person who has received the fine or the infringement fee will not pay. The vehicle may also be detained only if it is considered to be proportionate. The State Road Service already has a control guide where enforcement of this legislation is very clearly described. This was updated following the amendment of the law in 2020, and therefore I cannot see the need for a new instruction to the control authority, as the minority here suggests. In the case of minority proposal No: 2 and 3, I point out that the Road Administration and the police today can prohibit further driving using vehicles that do not have adequate equipment for driving during winter driving. Such a prohibition of use has an immediate effect on road safety and the emergence of vehicles which are not in a sound condition or are not adequately secured by road traffic. I have been informed by the Swedish Road Administration that there is no automatic link in the fact that two-axle tractors always have a worse grip than those with several axles, as long as they have the correct weight distribution and suitable winter equipment. The prohibition of use is based on an overall assessment where the weather and driving conditions, the number of axles and the weight distribution are relevant moments. The road staff have very good competence to make such assessments, and I assume, of course, that judgement is actively exercised. I do not think there is a need to explore the possibility of imposing a temporary ban on the use of two-axle towing vehicles, as the control authority already has sufficient authority to do so. Where control officers detect minor infringements on the road without ice and snow, an infringement fee and, for example: a requirement to change tyres. If the on-site lead so warrants, the vehicle may proceed to the workshop to change the tyre. The national road authority informs that all vehicles which are stopped with serious technical defects are being banned for defects and the faults are corrected. An extended use of prohibitions of use where errors and deficiencies are identified independently of driving and without an assessment of the road safety considerations and the significance of the failure will have an unreasonable impact on the entire transport industry. As mentioned above, the State Road Administration and the police are already authorised to prohibit the use of vehicles which do not have driving characteristics which provide sufficient traction on the driver, including: in case of lack of use of a chain. It follows from § 36 of today's Road Traffic Act that when the vehicle's wheels are not secured by adequate grips with the use of spikes, chains and the like, a prohibition of use may be imposed. where driving conditions make this necessary. I therefore see no reason to propose an authorisation for a ban on the use of vehicle trains that do not meet the requirement for chaining in winter. Finally, I would like to refer to the work that has been carried out by many people here today, with an action plan against social dumping in the transport sector, which is also mentioned in the Hurdal platform. We will ensure broad involvement in this work, including: through the recording meeting with the industry. Such a plan will not only affect the working conditions of employees and ensure fairer competition, but will also contribute to the creation of a more serious industry with actors who take their responsibility for the enforcement of the legislation seriously. It will also contribute to enhancing road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e313	Now we have heard from the red-green parties that this case, which specifically deals with road safety measures such as white tyres and chains, is a matter of concern to a future case of the Ministry of Transport on social dumping. Then I am particularly interested to hear what the Council of State can inform us about what this issue of social dumping will contain of road safety things such as white tyres and chains. This is what this case is about – not the working environment, not wages. These are very important issues, but this case here is about road safety, specifically. Let's not misplace what's the theme here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e318	I think I was reasonably clear in my statement that my main concern is that today's legislation is good. There are homes, the State Road Service has the necessary skills, and the steps are also widely taken to ensure good safety on our roads. As far as the action plan on social dumping is concerned, it also has the effects that I said at the end of my speech: it will contribute to a more serious industry. Here, regulatory changes could also be relevant, but it's a little early to anticipate that process, because we've just said that we should have an open and inclusive process where the players in the industry are going to be involved in and record. We'll get back to it, with a plan against social dumping in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e325	We are all very concerned that it should be a serious industry, but just as fully: this is about road safety, it is about when the vehicle is not protected for the Norwegian driver. The progress party can tell about frustration among employees in the State Road Administration and Customs Department that there is no possibility of holding back vehicles that do not have tyres and chains suitable for the whole route they are going to run. Then I am surprised that the government parties take the great responsibility it is to say no to go into such a matter, and it also surprises me that they take the great responsibility it is not to want to determine whether two-axle vehicles are suitable in all winter conditions, as the Swedes now choose to carry out an investigation. What makes Sweden want to conduct an investigation? Well, it's not going to answer, but I want to know at least what he thinks about the responsibility he takes by not wanting to solve this with a two-axle vehicle and by postponing the case and saying that this belongs with social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e332	The State Road Service already has a control guide where enforcement of this legislation is very clearly described, and it was updated following the amendment in 2020. I do not see the need for new instructions to the control authorities. I believe that a general rule on prohibition of use or detention where faults have been discovered and are lacking in independence to operate and without an assessment of the road safety significance of the fault will have unreasonable consequences for the transport industry. Of course, this could also lead to an unreasonable accumulation or a vehicle accumulation challenge in the Road Safety Control Centre's checkpoints and pockets. So you have to do a targeted effort where there are real challenges. I am sure that the State Road Service is in a position to do so. After all, it's all those who are our professional authority and have the best competence to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e339	This is an interesting debate, for everyone talks about a serious industry and how to run seriously. This is about the seriousness of the industry, actually opening up cars that are not allowed to drive. Yeah, that's serious, that's taking out the unprofessional. I hear the council say that this is not a problem, and that the legislation is clear enough – yes, but the men and women who are actually going to do the job say they have a challenge. Because in this country, the weather changes quite quickly and a little depending on where to go. When you know that a car combination is going over there and it is going to pass a bad weather, you know that you actually have to leave some of those cars behind. That's what's the problem: they're watching cars that are road-hazardous, driving on. And the council says he doesn't see the need. But when those who are on the floor, those who are closest, say that they need it, how can the Council of State think and stand here saying that this is not a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e346	Let me first say that I have a great deal of respect for the people who work on the floor, who are out doing control in our offices and businesses. But it is also such that it is the state road service as the agency that is our professional authorities, and it gives very clear feedback to me that this is a good regulation. These are good control instructions. They have the ability to exercise good professional judgement, and they exercise good professional judgement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e351	I still want to continue to challenge the Council of States, because then I would really expect the Council of States to provide a guarantee here and now that there are no problems with these regulations. You hold back and you can hold back a train. Even though it is possible to drive because the road is a bar where you are stopped in control, you can hold back if the end destination is above the mountain, with the challenges it is. When the Council of State gets clear feedback here, suggestions are being made here, it's being taken up by many in the industry, people who are engaged in a serious business, shouldn't the Council go back and go for a round to actually listen to those who are on the floor, those who are out and meet those car companies that shouldn't be allowed to go on?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e359	We agree that road safety is important, and we also agree in this Chamber that social dumping is important. There is then a good code here where there is room to exercise professional discretion. My expectation for the State Road Administration is that it will take advantage of the space for action to ensure that we have road safety on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e364	According to the FriFague Movement, earlier this year the Council of State was visiting Hob Gods in Trondheim. That's where he met the Chief Councilman John Olav Islander. At the local trust committee, the Council of State was given a reminder. At the same time, there were many good tips on how to make heavy-duty transport safer in Norway. Among other things, there was a lot about what I was in my post earlier. What has the Council of State done with this note from Eyeågen, and will concrete action be taken by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e371	Thank you for a good reminder of my visit to Trondheim. I saw the last note in the office a few days ago, so it is in good order. What is the good news about the work on social dumping and the action plan is that we get a lot of input that is quite similar and points to the same type of instruments that should be included in such an action plan. It was quite consistent with what I also got from the said company in Trondheim. This will be ensured when we come back with an action plan, but work is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e376	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e383	This seems to be a matter for which it should be possible to agree, but then the positioning parties have made contributions saying that this really shouldn't be about what it is about, it should have been about social dumping, it should have been about something completely different. It's strange – nobody really opposes improving road safety. The councils have given a response to the Storting on this, where he writes: ‘It is not automatic that two-axle towing vehicles have a lower grip than those with multiple axles [[...]] And then he goes on to write: ‘However, multi-axle tractors will often be able to be more readily accessible during winter driving.’ Then I read a little at the Norwegian Freight Car Association and others, who say that when a driver is a bad driver or a bad trained driver on winter driving, a much faster fix is with two-axle car trains, a builder line, a create chaos, a create traffic-threatening situations. There is, of course, some background to the proposal that the Progress Party has made and that is supported by the Right. That's at least something the Council of State should be able to look at. The question to the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV is whether they disagree with the proposals, or whether they have gone into the classic trap: we agree, but since it comes from the opposition, we vote against and promote the proposals later on on our own. So the Council of State says that he will present an action plan against social dumping in the transport sector. Then the question is: is there an action plan designed by the government without being treated in the Storting, or is it a proposition, for which the Storting may be allowed to show its commitment? We know that there has been a great deal of social dumping in recent years – not least in the EU, there has been good work on cabotage driving and other things, starting to produce, hopefully, good results. It would have been nice if the Council of State could confirm that this action plan is something he wants to involve Stortinget in, and not just a plan designed in the Council of State's office, which does not go into the Stortinget. There's obviously a lot of commitment, we also heard from Red and SV here, for this with social dumping in the transport industry. We are prepared to take part in that debate, but now we have a debate on road safety and not on social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e406	I can't stand it when the representative Mona Fagerås was in the pulpit and talked that she would like to see something about everything that wasn't in this proposal, and that one was more concerned with social dumping and working conditions in the transport sector. Yes, but these are things that also deal with employment and social dumping in the transport sector. That's why it's a strange thing – to be against this because it's kind of not part of it. Well, that's definitely part of it. This is important, and it's about when you start cleaning up, the unprofessional start to realize that here it's not smart to travel because it actually has some consequences. When the Council of State says what he says, and refers to the response from the State Road Service, the thing is that we have been in contact with two out-of-office inspection posts. They may charge a fee, but not if the check is carried out at a place where there is black asphalt and the vehicle combinations are to run over white snow on the road. So you can't hold back that vehicle, despite the fact that everyone sees it, and the controller sees it very well, that that vehicle train shouldn't be allowed to travel to the West or around North Norway where you know they're going over mountain crossings where this is a problem. Then it's a little strange with this whole debate. Throughout the years I was on the Transport Committee, I saw all the essays on this topic. When we were in government, we did a lot to improve these relationships, but then you see that there are still things that should be better. It was a howl from the opposition at the time, but now they are in government, and now they vote it down – what they have talked hot about many times before. It is said that an action plan on social dumping and employment in the transport sector should be brought back. Yes, everyone agrees, but this is just about a small part of it. There are concrete and specific things that will mean a great deal to road safety, to those who are going to drive, and to ensure that those who are not going to be allowed to drive are left standing. Then it's safe for everyone else who travels on these roads as well. This is really doing something about social dumping, and it's doing something about working conditions for everyone else who's on the way. That's why I hope, as I said, that the government parties get together. They know what they've voted before, what they've taken up in this hall many times before. Therefore, I hope they vote in line with that, and that they vote in line with their hearts and not because they are in the government offices. It would be good, and it would mean a lot to many of those who are car drivers and run in Norway, who are concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e419	One would think that the Right Party and the Advance Party did not listen to what is being said from the pulpit. In December 2020, the Professional Transport Act was amended, so the proposals on the table today have already been adopted. It concerns enforcement, which was in December 2020. It's been a pandemic. There has been a lack of cross-sectoral support for stopping or eliminating those unprofessionals, as it is also an important part of road safety. Today it can be closed with a wheel lock. The regulations have begun to work. It's not that we vote against when we're in favour, but we don't have to vote for something that's already decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e424	It was Trond Helleland's lecture on the classic trap that made me go to the pulpit, which – according to Greece – is that we agree, but since it comes from the opposition, we vote against. I must be allowed to say dry: this must be something that the representative of Greece knows well from the last eight years. I was there the last four, and I know well how they were doing themselves. Then I have to remind the representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, that the vehicle can be detained in order to ensure the payment of fines and infringement charges, and the State Road Administration and the police are already authorised to prohibit the use of vehicles that do not have vehicle characteristics that provide sufficient traction. And I have to ask the representative Hoksrud: why wasn't this sorted out in the last period, when the Progress Party sat with the Council of State for seven out of the last eight years, if this is so important to get in place immediately? You could just ask yourself that. I do not care if the representative has an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e433	We have said that we should make an action plan against social dumping. And basically, there's an action plan that we're developing in government, but that doesn't mean it's happening in my office. I said in my post that we should bring with us party representatives, we have already received a lot of input, we have meetings with the employee organisations, and the point is that this should go quite quickly. But it may be that in this process there is a need for legislative changes, changes in legislation, etc., so I should not rule out that there will also be treatment in Stortinget. But initially, it's not going to be like that. Then I just want to repeat what several times have said repeatedly: the Praise Halls are there. The control bodies have the possibility and the authority to which they are addressed. They have the competence to do so, and it is fully possible to achieve what the proposers want, with what is already there today. And then I think that with reference to going into traps, I hope that the opposition does not fall into the trap of promoting proposals that are strictly not necessary in order to appear to be effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e440	The representative Mr. Bård Hoksrud has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e445	It's funny that I'm allowed to come on, because after eight years of red-green, no world thing happened in this area. One of the first things we started was to have several checks, make sure you can hold back the vehicle, put on the brackets, etc. We have provided for a sharp increase in controls. I hear the council say that when it's still part to clean up, you should do it. And when I hear the council say that we have the law hall, we can do this, yes, he's in every disagreement with those who meet this every day on the road, and who'll make sure to enforce this. They have asked for what we in the Progress Party have now proposed, and therefore it is not stupid for the Council of State to listen occasionally and see if there is a need to change something, so that the government parties now support the proposal that the Right and the Advance Party are promoting. It will mean something to road safety, it will mean something to all those who drive on the roads, and it will help to open up unprofessional carriers, which will not be allowed to continue in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e451	We get the answer at final voting later today. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e468	Thank you to the presidency for giving me as Nordic Minister for Cooperation a presentation to the Stortinget on Nordic cooperation and Norway's Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Thanks also to the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council for good discussions during the recent theme session in Malmö. There we discussed the future of the Nordic welfare model, Nordic crisis and preparedness cooperation, border barriers and, above all, the situation in Ukraine. In these days, the film about Queen Margrete I goes to cinemas in Norway. It tells the story of a strong woman who ended up as a Nordic governor and founder of the Kalmar Union. The film gives us a living insight into our common Nordic history. We have experienced unions, alliances, warriors and battles in the Nordic countries. The history of the Nordic region in modern times must be characterised as a success story. We'll find all the five Nordic countries at the top of the UN's living conditions index. There is evidence that we in the Nordic region have succeeded in creating good, secure welfare societies that are able to meet the needs and desires of their inhabitants to a large extent. The reason for that, I think, is that we share a number of core values – values that also characterize Nordic cooperation and bind us together. Open, liberal societies characterised by great trust — both within countries and between countries — well-functioning institutions and a strong tradition of cooperation are some of them. But we can't take these values for granted. For a long time, we have seen that multilateral cooperation and international driving rules have come under increasing pressure. And it goes deeper. The very basic values of liberal democracy are under attack. Now we are witnessing a brutal and international war of aggression on the European continent. It requires that we stand together to defend our values and stand up for a world in which international law should and must go ahead of the use of power. The struggle of the Ukrainian people for their freedom is a struggle for our Nordic values. As a result of Russia’s attack on Ukraine, the Nordic Council of Ministers has decided to freeze its cooperation with Russia. Project support for Belarus is also frozen. But it is important for me to stress that the decision is addressed to the governments of these countries and not to the Russian and Belarusian people. This year it is 70 years since the Nordic Council was established and 60 years since the Helsinki Agreement was signed. Last year we marked 50 years for the Nordic Council of Ministers. Together, these institutions have helped shape what we see today. In the Hurdal platform, the government has determined that we want to develop and deepen Nordic cooperation. Last summer, the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers conducted a survey on the Nordic population’s view of Nordic cooperation. The answer was clear: Nordic cooperation has broad popular upswing – 60 pst. want more of that. It's an important signal to us politicians. I think it's an expression to the people of the Nordic region that Nordic cooperation has positive, practical consequences for their lives. For 70 years, the inhabitants of the Nordic region have been able to travel freely without passports and live where they want to in the region without applying for a residence permit. Almost the same time we have had a common Nordic labour market. This contributes to trust, it builds identity, and it has real meaning for human life. The pandemic has been challenging for all Nordic countries. Two years ago, the whole Nordic region reacted with intervention to protect life and health. All countries had to make difficult and sometimes different balances. The strict restrictions on entry posed major challenges for workers and businesses. It put the people of the North, especially in the border lines, to a severe test. School days for students and students were turned upside down. Education and research cooperation across the Nordic region was severely restricted. Cultural life, which is a central part of Nordic cooperation, was also hard hit. Once the population has experienced restrictions through the pandemic, it has not only created practical challenges. In particular, Norwegian restrictions have produced reactions on the Swedish side. Swedish politicians have used words such as ‘care’, ‘mind’, even ‘confidence’ about the feelings of the people of border regions. Although we do not necessarily share these views from the Norwegian side, we have to take the reactions seriously. It is important to contribute to restoring mutual trust across the Nordic borders. Similarly, we must be able to say that Nordic cooperation has been successful through the pandemic, despite temporary restrictions and different national approaches. The pandemic has been a reminder of the interdependence and importance of our cooperation. But the pandemic has also confirmed that Nordic solidarity stands firm and has practical value. Now when we're about to put the pandemic behind us, we're going to take the lessons from the last two years. This work is already in progress. In 2019, the Nordic Prime Ministers set a clear target: the Nordic region should be the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030. Together, we will build a green, competitive and socially sustainable Nordic region. This is the core of the Nordic Council of Ministers' vision 2030. Vision 2030 is the road map for our presidency. The vision reflects the greatest challenge of our time – the climate crisis. Solving it requires transformation in all parts of society. Through close Nordic cooperation, we will be a leading international region and contribute to the achievement of the UN's sustainability objectives, the Paris Agreement and the greening of Europe. Nordic cooperation is therefore not only important for Norway and the Nordic countries, but also for Europe and the world. To support the vision, we have an action plan that clarifies the tasks. Since 2021, there have also been four-year budget plans and a gradual rotation of the Nordic budget. This was an important step in providing the Council of Ministers with the necessary continuity. This turn means that some sectors have increased their budgetary frameworks, while others have reduced their frameworks. Such rotation is necessary to enable the Council of Ministers to deliver on the vision's objectives. At the same time, we do not exclude the adoption of the budget plan until we were hit by the pandemic. The cultural, research and education sectors were particularly hard hit. That's why it was important to find a budget solution for 2022 that took into account the special situation that the pandemic put us in. I look forward to continued good cooperation with the Nordic Council on budgetary matters. The mid-term evaluation of the vision will be an important task under the Norwegian Presidency. I will ensure good dialogue with the Nordic Council and civil society in this process. The findings of the evaluation shall help to ensure continued robustness of the work. The mid-term report will be presented to the Prime Ministers for the autumn and at the Nordic Council's session in Helsinki. The concrete work carried out in the Nordic region in general and under the direction of the Nordic Council of Ministers in particular is very extensive. All government councils in this government are deeply involved within their responsibilities. Let me take this opportunity to highlight some of the areas that we are now raising through the Norwegian Presidency. I want to start with cooperation on crisis management and security of supply. Nordic cooperation on preparedness and crisis management has long traditions. The pandemic has shown us both strengths and weaknesses in our cooperation. It is therefore natural that the Nordic governments have received various proposals for how we can further develop and strengthen ourselves in these areas, both through independent reports ordered by the Nordic Council of Ministers itself and through input from the Nordic Council. The Nordic Prime Ministers adopted last November a Joint Declaration on enhanced cooperation in security of supply and preparedness. The declaration is based on the pandemic. An important element is the availability of critical labour, with particular reference to cross-border mobility. At the same time, the declaration points to the need to prepare for the full range of possible crises. The significance of this has been dramatically underlined by the critical situation that arose after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Close cooperation between the Nordic countries is important and necessary in the face of crises of different kinds. Cooperation in this field takes place within different frameworks, including: The Nordic Council of Ministers, the Haga cooperation on civil society security, the Nordic defence cooperation NORDEFCO and the so-called Svalbard group on health protection. Cooperation on foreign policy issues between our foreign ministers and our foreign services is also of great importance when a crisis arises. Nordic cooperation on civil society security and preparedness has been anchored in Haga cooperation since 2009. The aim is to reduce the vulnerability of countries, to enhance joint response capacity and efficiency, and to achieve greater impact in international forums. From 2020, civil-military cooperation between Haga and NORDEFCO has been established. Through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, the Nordic countries have established a common ‘Nordic Roadmap’. This ensures that the Nordic countries have an overview of the resources and capacities available in the region and from which the Nordic countries can benefit. Let me give you a good example of concrete cooperation. In the summer of 2018, the Nordic region was hit by heavy forest fires. The situation required that we help each other. Therefore, Bisto Norway in the decommissioning work in Sweden. We know that we have to be prepared for this to happen again. That is why, since 2019, we have held joint Nordic and Nordic Baltic meetings in advance of the summer season to ensure that we are well prepared and have a good overview of needs and capacities. Health preparedness has long been a central element of Nordic cooperation and is also an important priority under the Norwegian Presidency. At the same time, it is difficult to work on Nordic health preparedness without looking at European cooperation in this area. Our Nordic neighbours – Sweden, Denmark and Finland – build their health preparedness within the framework of the EU. We have to deal with that. For this reason, the government will work to ensure that Norway participates in EU cooperation on health preparedness and crisis response. The Nordic countries may have a lot to contribute together. This applies not least to our operational cooperation with joint exercises, common situational understanding and assistance in crisis situations. A good example is the nuclear preparedness exercise Arctic REIHN, which should have been conducted in Bodø in May, but which is suspended due to the situation in Ukraine. The last two years have shown the importance of open borders and continued trade also in crises. Security of supply has long been a priority area for Norway and Finland in particular. In 2005, we concluded an agreement to maintain goods and services between our countries in war and crisis situations. From the Finnish and Norwegian sides, we now want similar agreements to be concluded with other Nordic countries. Medical equipment and medicinal products are often mentioned, but food, fuel and industrial products are very central. The food sector comprises a variety of different value chains. Many of them are long and complicated. The Nordic countries have very different assumptions regarding the production and trade of food, but all will somehow depend on inputs or finished products from other countries. We have a number of common issues in the region where we can work together to find common solutions. Finland, Sweden and Norway are already in the start-up phase of a joint study project on packaging access to the food sector within the framework of the Critical Nordic Flows project. The Nordic governments agree that we must aim to strengthen cooperation in the field of crisis preparedness. However, this must be done within the established framework, where the responsibility lies with the trade unions and trade unions. The Nordic Cooperation Ministers have overall responsibility for coordinating the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. At our meeting in February, the Norwegian Presidency had agreed to discuss the follow-up. Among the various proposals that governments will consider, I can mention the possibility of even better and more systematic communication between us when a crisis arises. Proposals have been made for the establishment of a dedicated network for such communications, which may also involve more formalised procedures. What solutions will be agreed upon remains to be seen. This will be discussed in more detail in consultation with all stakeholders. Another important area that deserves particular attention is the problems of cross-border mobility in situations where restrictions need to be imposed. Here too, proposals have been made for different solutions. This concerns both practical aspects of access to border crossings and measures to address any problems that may have arisen in areas related to tax and social security rights. It is too early to say which solutions will be possible and necessary. However, we will contribute to an open and concrete discussion of the proposals that have been promoted and that will come, for example. by the Border Barriers Council. A study, commissioned by the Nordic Council of Ministers, on security of supply and preparedness, will be presented before the summer. We will follow up with concrete discussions on proposals and recommendations from this study. Further strengthening of Nordic cooperation in health preparedness was high on the agenda when our health ministers met in the framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers in Stavanger last week. The Ministers for Health signed a Joint Declaration on Improving Health Preparedness. These measures include, inter alia: a mechanism for sharing situational awareness, improving the effectiveness of assistance in the event and crisis, and developing a health data sharing infrastructure. The Nordic Cooperation Ministers will follow closely the work on all these issues so that we can see the many aspects of this area in context and contribute to an overall approach. The aim is to report together to the Nordic Prime Ministers and to the Nordic Council at the autumn meetings. Let me also add that through NordForsk we are now going to release funds for research into social security in the Nordic region. This will also help equip us to better meet the challenges of the future. Vision 2030 is the common vision of the Nordic countries for how the Nordic countries should take their climate and environmental responsibility and contribute to the green transition. Achieving emission targets requires enhanced efforts and broad involvement of both public and private actors and from all levels of society. In the Norwegian Presidency, we are working to strengthen the Nordic Climate Partnership and to bring forward concrete initiatives that make the Nordic region a green transition pilot. The Nordic countries work closely together to meet our objectives under the Paris Agreement through European cooperation. Nordic cooperation includes expert cooperation in key disciplines such as emission reductions and instruments, adaptation and funding of climate action in other countries. COP26 gave us Glasgow Climate Pact, with a clear message on the implementation of the objectives of the Paris Agreement to keep global warming well below 2 degrees and work to limit it to 1.5 degrees. The Nordic Ministers for Climate and Environment made important contributions to the porting of Glasgow Climate Pact and facilitated key parts of the negotiations. Through the programme of the Nordic pavilion at COP26, broad dialogue between different actors was facilitated. Nordic youth actively contributed, including a presentation of the Nordic youth position paper on biodiversity. Nordic research and education cooperation will also ensure in the years to come that the Nordic region is given new and up-to-date knowledge of what the green shift means for Nordic communities. For example, in 2022, a Green Change Research Call is launched through NordForsk, which will complement the research we do nationally. The link between climate and nature is another priority under the Norwegian Presidency. We have launched a four-year Nordic project on nature-based solutions. This means how to address challenges related to greenhouse gas emissions, climate adaptation and the loss of natural diversity by taking into account nature's characteristics, processes and ecosystems. The project will contribute to the increased use of nature-based solutions in the Nordic countries, the sharing of knowledge about such solutions and the integration of nature-based solutions into societal planning. Nordic energy cooperation is in line with the overall vision for Nordic cooperation. A new energy cooperation programme for 2022-2024 has been adopted. There is agreement to continue the good Nordic electricity market cooperation. Common challenges are being addressed within the EU/EEA, including the energy themes of the greening of the EU. Furthermore, good cooperation on renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and carbon capture and storage has been established. There is agreement to further develop Nordic energy research cooperation and Nordic Energy Research, NEF, as a well-functioning instrument in Nordic energy cooperation. The Nordic region is well ahead in sustainable management of marine areas. The Panel points out that the seas and marine industry migration are important contributions to the achievement of climate objectives. Wind power at sea, decarbonisation of shipping, nature-based solutions and sustainable fisheries are examples of the fact that in many areas in the Nordic region, we are able to make the necessary transition. Norway, under its Presidency, will work to strengthen Nordic efforts for sustainable maritime management and the link between marine management and climate, including: in Skagerrak. This is also closely linked to the cooperation we have with the Nordic countries in order to launch negotiations on a global convention on plastic pollution. Here, the Nordics have taken a clear lead. At the beginning of March, at the Fifth Environment Assembly of the United Nations, led by Minister for Climate and Environment Espen Barth Eide, the country of the world agreed to establish a legally binding global agreement against plastic pollution. Green shipping is a priority area in the Presidency of Norway. The Nordic region has all the prerequisites for taking a leading role in achieving zero-emission shipping. At the initiative of Norway, funds have been allocated under Vision 2030 for the development of a zero-emission fuel road map for shipping in the Nordic region. At the Climate and Environment Ministerial meeting on 3 May, it is planned that climate and environment ministers will join a declaration of increased cooperation and concrete efforts to establish zero-emission shipping routes in the Nordic region, based on international ferry transport and other particularly suitable routes. Knowledge and research on the link between equality and climate policy are important for policy-making in the Nordic region. In the autumn of 2021, the Council of Ministers for Gender Equality decided to commit itself to a multiannual effort to ensure the gender perspective of climate work linked to UN Women's initiative, Generation Equality. This is a framework for broad and cross-sectoral international cooperation in the field of equality. In January, a Nordic round table was organised in Oslo on equality and climate justice, initiated by the Nordic equality ministers, UN Women and the civil society organisation FOKUS. The Round Table was an important play for the UN Commission on Women in March 2022, where Norway provided a joint Nordic declaration that the Nordic Council of Ministers undertakes to work on gender equality in climate action. If we are to succeed in our Nordic integration ambitions, the citizens, civil society and children and young people, in particular, must be guaranteed a good framework for participation in processes. As part of this, a Nordic civil society network was established last year. The network consists of 40 organisations and will be an important partner and control body in the efforts to realise Vision 2030. The Nordic welfare model is one of the Nordic trademarks. But we know that the pandemic has gone wrong and had major consequences for working and social life. We also know that the common Nordic labour market has been affected. What this means in the long term, we don't yet fully know. But there is no doubt that this makes cooperation on a socially sustainable Nordic region even more important. Many children and young people have been affected by invasive disease control measures during the pandemic. There is a need for more research and knowledge on the long-term consequences of the pandemic and the measures for the protection of children and young people. In order to ensure social sustainability and the maintenance of the welfare state in the years to come, we need more work to do. It is a fundamental challenge in all Nordic countries. A larger research programme on how to increase participation in employment among vulnerable groups is therefore under way, such as: young people, immigrants, older jobseekers and people with health challenges. At the ministerial meeting on social health policy at the end of March, effective measures to include more young people in work, education and society were discussed. The effects of the pandemic on vulnerable children and young people will also be the main theme of a Nordic conference for the autumn in the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, NordForsk and the Norwegian Presidency. The exchange of knowledge and experience on the inclusion of young people with a migrant background in society will be one of many themes at several Nordic conferences throughout the year. Negative social control and honour-related violence will also be the subject of an informal ministerial meeting for the autumn. These are relationships that prevent young people from participating in society in the same way as others. Continuing language and cultural cooperation is important in order to achieve the vision 2030 objective of a socially sustainable Nordic region. Freedom of expression, diversity and indigenous culture are key priorities of the Norwegian Presidency. Arts, culture and media create meeting places and are important for the common Nordic identity. The Nordic understanding of languages is at the heart of the Nordic cultural community. Under the direction of the Norwegian Presidency, several initiatives are under planning. Among other things, Norway, as a host country during the autumn, will organise a Nordic conference on the influence of technology giants on democratic dialogue and on the editor-driven news media. This is particularly important at a time when free media is under pressure and false news is a major problem. Furthermore, the Presidency will actively support two important cultural initiatives to take place in Canada in 2022. One is Nordic Bridges, a large Nordic cultural model in five cities in Canada throughout the year. The second is the Arctic Arts Summit Summit, which in 2022 takes place in Yukon, Canada. In order for the Nordic region to succeed in becoming an integrated region, we need to implement cross-border digital solutions. The Digitalisation Council includes both the Nordic and the Baltic countries. Good digital infrastructure is also important to ensure a competitive Nordic region. We want the Nordic region to be a leading region in the development and use of 5G. To achieve this, a follow-up tool is developed to measure and monitor the progress of 5G deployment. Another important initiative is Cross Border Digital Services, which is about putting in place cross-border services in the Nordic-Baltic region. A good example is the project Nordic-Baltic eID Project, led by Norway. This allows Nordic and Baltic users to log into other countries' digital services using their own eID. Other projects include, inter alia: cross-border data sharing and cross-border study services abroad. Technological development and digitisation contribute to the reduction of locational constraints on services and jobs. Through the pandemic, we have gained a lot of experience in such a state-of-the-art dependence, both in the private and public sectors. We now see trends in new patterns of migration in the Nordic countries, especially from the larger cities to the edge zone of these cities. Perhaps flexible forms of work can make it easier for rural areas to attract more people — such as ‘full-time residents’ or ‘part-time residents’. The regional sector of the Nordic Council of Ministers has launched three knowledge projects on what digitisation and relocation patterns mean for the attractiveness and competitiveness of cities. Work will also say something about the structures and measures that can support positive development in Nordic cities and districts. The transport sector is an important part of the solution for creating a green and competitive Nordic region. The pandemic has shown us the importance of transport between our countries. At a time of restrictions on entry, it became very important to ensure optimal flow of goods to and from Norway. With frequent and good contact at the level of the Nordic authorities, the problems that arose were solved. The Norwegian Presidency will work to strengthen Nordic transport cooperation. Current themes include Nordic airspace management, green transport solutions and social dumping in the transport sector. The transport sector is an area where Nordic cooperation has real added value. This is why the Norwegian Presidency is working to develop concrete and continuous Nordic transport cooperation and will address during the year the issue of establishing a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport. This is a matter which the Nordic Council has also raised on the agenda. Although this statement deals primarily with the work of the Norwegian Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers, I would also like to draw up a few other Nordic cooperation platforms where Norway has the Presidency this year. These are very important in the situation we are now facing, with an ongoing large-scale war in Europe. Last week, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Huitfeldt gave his annual foreign policy statement to the Stortinget. The presentation addressed many complex foreign policy issues we face, but of course, especially the war in Ukraine. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed, Nordic and European cohesion are crucial. Norway, under the leadership of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has this year chaired the Nordic foreign policy cooperation N5. This is an important forum for open and trusting dialogue, across organisational affiliation and alliance. In particular, the Nordic countries can come up with common positions on the many foreign policy issues. In line with the Hurdal platform, Nordic cooperation in the field of security and defence policy is an important priority for the government. Nordic defence cooperation has long traditions and is brought together in an integrated structure called Nordic Defence Cooperation, NORDEFCO. Under the leadership of the Minister of Defence, Norway has this year the chairmanship of NORDEFCO, in addition to the Nordic-Baltic Forum and the Northern Group. There is extensive Nordic cooperation on practice and training. In addition, several agreements are being worked on to facilitate practical cooperation between countries. This includes, inter alia: arrangements relating to cross-border military mobility in the Nordic region and the exchange of radar data. Total defence is also a thematic Norway will give priority during the Presidency period. Work is under way to strengthen civil-military cooperation and exercises in the Nordic region. A good example of NORDEFCO cooperation is the joint procurement contract for soldier uniforms signed in February. The contract has a frame of about $4.5 billion. kr. This is very joyful and shows the opportunities that lie in joint Nordic acquisitions, not only in the defence sector. Nordic cooperation is dynamic. It evolves as the needs of society and what is happening around us. New themes, new issues and new challenges require new approaches. Vision 2030 requires that we prioritize. Although we are now in an exceptional situation, we need at the same time the ability to continue working on the three objectives we have set for Nordic cooperation: a green Nordic, a competitive Nordic region and a socially sustainable Nordic region. I have kept this statement against a night-black backdrop in which Europe is the scene of war acts of an extent we have not seen since World War II. According to the UN, now ten million Ukrainians are displaced from their homes. Two of the Nordic countries border on the aggressor behind the tragic and unacceptable acts taking place in Ukraine. Although the Nordic countries have different security policy links, we are all affected by what is happening now. There is also reason to recall that an underlying dimension of the ongoing war in Ukraine is precisely about the fundamental right of independent countries to freely choose alliances and partners. No one knows the outcome of what is going on. However, close contact exists between the Nordic countries within different EU formats, addressing the many major and complex issues arising from the war on an ongoing basis. Together, we in the North are ready to help the many people in Ukraine who have been driven away by Russia's brutal war. Our strong welfare societies have the best conditions to accept and protect them. The North stands together in its condemnation of Russia's aggression, and we stand together to hold back the values that are the supports of the Nordic community.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e623	The President will propose that the Minister for Development give an account of Nordic cooperation to be discussed in a subsequent meeting in Stortinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e639	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from the member of the government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e646	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation. In this case, we are dealing with a proposal for a representative to combat violence and recrimination. I also refer to the letter of 2 February 2022 with the Ministry's assessment of the proposal. The starting point of proposals is a series of serious violence incidents in Oslo that are related to a small group of young people who, through criminal acts, create insecurity in the local environment and harm themselves and others. The proposal emphasises that the majority of children and young people are law-abiding, but that youth crime in parts of Oslo represents a significantly larger problem than before. The increase in registered and self-reported violent crime includes mainly violence, abuse and sexual offences. Young repeaters account for a significant proportion of the offences. The Committee notes that the rapporteurs point to the fact that in their reports the police express concern over several serious issues related to violence, ran and drugs, as well as an increase in the number of young people registered for repeated crime. According to the proposers, the police are also particularly concerned about the recruitment of more young people to established criminal environments. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude. Now I want to explain to the Labour Party and the Central Party's views on the matter. Work against violence and recriminalism must be a long-term prevention work that does not get focus only when shooting episodes take place and the subject matter dominates in the media. I would like to stress the importance of a long-term and holistic effort to prevent violence and recriminalism. We need the police present, more preventive work and an improvement in the relationship between the police and some youth communities, because it is a crucial part of the work on preventing violence and recriminalism. An important measure against violence and recriminalism is therefore additional funding of 200 million. kr to the police from the Workers' Party and the Central Party of the Government. This appropriation is intended to contribute to the sustainable strengthening of crime prevention, the presence of more police officers locally and better prevention. The bet shall include, inter alia: used for measures against criminal gangs. The previous government submitted a big message after the Stortinget split up in June 2021 with several actions that the same parties had previously voted down when the Workers' Party and the Center Party in their time promoted them on Stortinget. I would also like to refer to the Council's reply, where she confirms that the ministry is already working on many of the proposals that the representatives of the Right are promoting. A concentrated and continuous police response to criminal gangs in all affected police districts will be the cornerstone of the fight against serious crime. However, I would like to stress that serious recriminalism does not occur in a vacuum, but is usually due to a lack of follow-up at an earlier time. Our job is to make sure that all the children are followed up in kindergarten and school, so that the vulnerable are caught up. Our job is to ensure a good common school that gives mastery feeling no matter who you are. Our job is to ensure leisure and summer work, regardless of your background. Our job is to see that everything is related to everything. Then we also have to have roads out of the violence and the rest of the world. Young people as zones for the first or second time cannot be put into prison with heavy actors in the community. Children are not going to prison, we also need to develop and expand youth units. It is also necessary to improve the content of prisons. We have to invest in that. Another important aspect is families with a lot of violence and the context of this with the juvenile delinquency. Here's where the Oslo Police are working forward. They need our support in the long-term work. Finally, I would like to make an invitation. There is a lot of good work out there, especially in Oslo. An important measure is part of the SALTO work, where the employees of the urban districts ‘fields’ are out among young people in the evening. They prevent, they teach, and they coordinate important work. This is real outreach work that works. I would like to invite the justice politicians at Stortinget with me to this inquiring work, talk to the youth, learn from them and bring their views back to this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e669	To the last: invitation from the Workers' Party. I'm sure we'll do that. The background to this proposal is a series of serious violence incidents in Oslo. Between January 2020 and May 2021, 175 cases of physical violence were reported in Oslo. This represents an average of one notification every three days. Only in ten weeks last fall, eight young men were shot in public in Oslo. That is why we are promoting this proposal. Overall, there is still little child and youth crime in Norway, and the majority of children and young people are law-abiding. The vast majority of children and young people do not commit crime. Juvenile crime is steadily declining over the past 15 years. In some youth settings, however, there is a clear negative trend. A relatively small group of young people are too much of a crime, creating insecurity in the local environment, harming themselves, and harming others. It has to be recognised that juvenile delinquency in parts of Oslo represents a significantly greater problem than before. There has been an increase in registered self-reported crime among young people under 18 years of age since 2016, and the increase mainly includes the types of crime, violence, abuse and sexual offences. Each fourth target for young people aged 15 to 17 in 2019 addresses these types of offences. Young repeaters account for a significant proportion of the offences. In its reports, the police express concern about several serious issues related to violence, crime and drugs. There is an increase in the number of young people registered for repeated crime. The police are particularly concerned about the recruitment of more young people to established criminal environments. Action against juvenile and recriminalism has been an important priority for us in the Right for eight years in the government. In 2020, the then government parties, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, agreed with the Progress Party on nine measures to strengthen efforts against youth and recriminalism in Norway. We also added 60 million. kr for this purpose. In June, the government of Solberg presented the big news together against child, youth and gang crime. The Communication presented several proposals, on which the rapporteur was concerned, for action to this end, including: strengthening criminal care, strengthening the conflict councils and exit programmes for recriminals. This was one of the messages that the government chose to draw, and we see that it has failed to promote new measures to meet the development of recriminalism. That was also a reason why we are promoting this proposal. The conflicts in Oslo are happening here and now. Fortunately, it has been less in the last few months — at least there has been less attention around it. But we have a persistent problem. That is why we need to develop policy in this area. We have had dialogues with many, including: The Association of Police, the Norwegian Police and the Oslo Police Districts, and these proposals that have now been promoted, which I am addressing, have entered into close dialogue with those who are working on this for the day-to-day. Instead of hesitating, we choose to listen to these professionals. We are taking the challenges seriously, and we are proposing a number of measures. So we're going to introduce a weapons name path that exempts the punishment of possession of illegal weapons if they are handed over to the relevant authorities during a specified period of time. I hope several parties can vote for it. It doesn't take much to arrange a majority for that. We want to put in place a counter-violence alarm for recriminals, we want to put in place rapid tracks for the imprisonment of juveniles and recriminals. We also want to reverse the procedural burden by extending the possibility for the police and prosecution authorities to impose a ban on multi-criminal gang members living in parts of the area, in Oslo, ensuring that new police funds are used for crew and prevention in front of office premises, and we want to introduce permanent territorial weapons in vulnerable areas of Oslo. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem that any of this gets a majority, if no one makes sense during the debate. Although the government council was very positive in the media when I launched these proposals, the answer we now get is that they're working on the matter. I want to say, that we voted against some of that in the last period, when they proposed, does not mean that they have to vote against the same thing now. We don't come forward like that, but we're always allowed to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e698	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has then taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e703	Work to combat violence and gang crime must be built on stone and placed in a wider context. It's a marathon and not a sprint. The proposers point out that youth and recriminal crime has been an important priority for the Right in the eight years in which the party was placed in government. Nevertheless, nothing more specific is pointed out in this particular case than nine measures, 60 million. kr and a big message in the right was on the way out of the government office – and as the representative Gunaratnam was in, a big message where several of the measures that the Right had voted down when the Workers' Party and the Centre put them out in the Stortinget. It may show some of the problem – it has been done too little too late. Action against crime in all areas, but perhaps especially in the area of violence and recriminalism, requires that we count on the full range of actors – the police, of course, but also the municipality of health and social services and child protection is fundamental. Long-term and good prevention is also a key factor. Working against social differences, for the cohesion of living conditions, safe local environments and good growth conditions are important for everyone, but perhaps most important for those in the periphery both in completing education and in obtaining a job and in order to clean up their lives. All that is involved in shaping all of us is perhaps most important to those who are most vulnerable to becoming part of crime statistics. Behind the statistics are all the single stories that are often composed and characterized by poor or lack of follow-up long before becoming part of the statistics. Oslo State Attorney General's inspection report on the eastern part of Oslo Police District came earlier this year. It describes an increase in crime among those under 15 years of age. There is a call for more knowledge of who the children are, why it happens and how the system is able to capture the children who commit serious crime. And so it is that crime by children and young people often has victims on both sides of the case. We also know that this group often gets between several chairs in terms of who is responsible and who is to follow up. Is it police, or is it child protection? Not least, we know that there are challenges to which action is most effective in this group. We also know that working in child protection is demanding – for example. – against this group, and that many child-restraint workers experience violence and threats in their working life. This really just shows how complex the matter is and how important it is that we have a complete look when looking at measures and solutions. The issue we have to deal with today contains a number of suggestions. So to say everyone – it is evident both from the work of the Committee and from the response of the Council of State to letters – is in process and/or under work. A good example is the proposal for a weapons name path, where the Council of State is already doing well, and already in the additional proposal for 2022, the Senterpartiet and the Workers' Party brought in 40 million. kr extra to more present police in Oslo. This clearly shows that the government with the Council of State, Mehl, takes the subject matter very seriously and prioritises the work on violence and repeat crime high at the beginning of the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e717	Last spring, six young men were sentenced to between 420 hours of community service and 60 days of prison. That sentence was given to these six young men for carrying out two group rapes against a 15-year-old girl at the Furoset in Oslo. They were also sentenced to expose her to threats and violence. In two cases several of them went together to keep her down while she was being raped. One of them also threatened to kill her, according to the verdict. Three of them were sentenced to 60 days of unconditional imprisonment plus community punishment. The three others were sentenced to between 360 and 417 hours of community punishment. All of them have been convicted of serious rape under Section 293 of the Criminal Code – a provision that, as you know, has a prison sentence of 21 years. The judgment is – thank you and the law – not legal. You can ask yourself how this is possible. How is it that six young men can be judged so mildly for such a lowly, serious, and abominable crime as a group rape actually is? You can ask, and I can give the answer, because that's the desire of the majority in this room. All parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, wish that, for persons under 18 years of age who are then referred to as children in the law, prison should be used only exceptionally when committing criminal offences. It is a desired policy. It also does not help that the media are totally absent from referencing these kinds of cases. It doesn't help at all. There's probably a pretty clear perception out there among the people most, in people's consciousness, what's justice. It's probably a perception that these are far too low penalties. Then it doesn't benefit to be 17 years old when these rapes are carried out, because that's what we're talking about. This is not a child other than in the sense of the law. These are quite well-grown youths, to say it like that. It is strange when discussing child, youth and recriminalism, that the implication is that in practice there is no use of punishment to any particular extent for those concerned. In all other contexts, we know that action must have consequences. If you are not willing to give the consequences to the offenders, we have a rather hopeless task if we have expectations of combating child, youth and gang crime. That's the first thing we have to do. That's where we have to start. All the other measures, of which we are also followers, which are on the table today, are well and good, but if we cannot put these young people in charge of their actions even when they commit repeat abuses, repeat violence – when we cannot even apply stricter penalties than what we are talking about here, that is. Social Punishment – we have a hopeless task. There must be job number one. The Progress Party has proposed this. We're going to propose that again. We are going to support all the good measures that are on the table today that make us better suited to combating recriminalism, but we must start by punishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e730	Work against violence and recriminalism must be a long-term, preventive work that is not only put into focus when shooting episodes occur and the themes dominate in the media. Fortunately, Norway is a low-crime society, and the vast majority, young and old, do not commit crime. But even though they're few, we're going to take seriously that recriminalism is serious and something that needs to be worked strategically and in the long term. The most important and effective thing we can do to combat crime is to prevent crime from happening initially. The common denominator for many of those who commit criminal acts, including criminal youths and so-called repeaters, is that they come from families with significant living conditions challenges, poor finances and, not least, distressedness. Preventing this is about creating a society that is safe for everyone, about safe and good local environments and growing-up conditions, and about ensuring that crime does not affect or destroy people's lives. Then we must start preventive work as early as in kindergarten and school. Therefore, it was important for SV to create a society with smaller differences and greater opportunities for all. For this reason, it was important to put in place free core time in the SFO for first-rate education, to remove the shortening of child welfare in social assistance, to strengthen child protection in Oslo and the provision of state child protection, and to strengthen and extend regional efforts in large cities. All of this is done because we have a new government in Norway, which is dedicated to creating a society where everyone has the opportunity to succeed. Then we're busy having a police force that's around the city, which is part of the community and not just called in when crime has happened – it's too late. To get a police officer who just knows the local environment, you have to be willing to spend money on it. In cooperation with the government, we secured 200 million. to the police for better local presence, increased staffing and enhanced crime control. We want to fight crime by giving people a way out, a meaningful leisure time, jobs for young people, leisure clubs where they can be social, opportunities to participate in sports and culture – simply the possibility of a meaningful life. Today there are several suggestions on the table that are worth discussing, but I want to draw one out, and that is the proposal for a weapon name path, which is just about giving people a way out before it's too late. That is a good suggestion. That's a proposal SV is going to vote for. We therefore support proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e747	I share the commitment of the representative proposal to address the challenges we face with violence and recriminalism, but there is not so much new in the measures being put forward. Several measures have already been adopted in the United Kingdom and are currently being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The proposal for a reverse alarm against violence against convicts and for sufficient grounds for imposing a criminal residence ban for a longer period of time in a particular geographical area was promoted by the Central Party and the Workers' Party in the Inner East. 204 S for 2018-2019, from March 2019. Later it was promoted again to Innst. 147 S for 2019-2020 and adopted by a total of 18 December 2020. This is partly due to the fact that the Ministry of Justice sent a proposal for the extension of the use of electronic control at the hearing, with a deadline of 6 December last year. The proposal is now under consideration in the Department. I agree that it is important that new resources for the police should go to teams and prevention to create dialogue and trust in the local environment. This is in line with the recommendations of the DFØ evaluation of the April 2021 police reform. It is recommended that the police should become more visible and present locally. This is also in accordance with the government platform under the control of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. But if we're going to have some new money to strengthen the local level with, they have to be granted. It didn't do the right to a sufficient degree. That's why one of the first steps was for the new government to grant 200 million. kr more to the police than the previous government did in its budget. The funds were to go to more policemen, who would also provide better prevention. The situation in Oslo is the main reason behind the proposal for a representative, and it's worth noting that 40 million. NOK of the additional appropriations from the government parties, which we agreed on, and which received support from SV in Stortinget, goes to just Oslo. Oslo police districts are implementing several measures against recriminalism, including: special training of police, prevention through the presence of uniform police and targeted investigation to mitigate conflicts and stop spirals of violence. The proposal to put in place rapid tracks for the imprisonment of juveniles and convicts has good intentions, but is little concrete. One of the challenges facing childhood and juvenile criminals is that we do not have enough prisons adapted to this group. The government will therefore extend the capacity of the child and youth units. Sufficient capacity at youth centres is a prerequisite for further investigation into whether rapid criminal proceedings may be appropriate for offenders under 18 years of age, which is something we will consider. We have had a weapons name path at regular intervals to get better control of unregistered weapons. Although there is some uncertainty about the success of the response in terms of recriminals, the weapon name path remains a good measure and an appropriate tool to reduce the number of illegal firearms in circulation on a general basis. The government has agreed that we should have a weapon name path, and after dialogue with the Police Directorate, we intend to introduce it by 2022. The question of arms falls under the mandate of the sample that the government has now appointed to assess the police's use of force. It is already possible to implement both so-called territorial weapons, as proposed, and point weapons, and it is the police themselves who are closest to assessing the need for armaments and asking the Department for its consent, after a concrete assessment. Finally, I would like to stress that the fight against recriminalism must be resolved by means beyond the police track. Several of the gang criminals are children and young people. The government's work against social inequality, poor living conditions, child poverty and exclusion is therefore also very important in preventing and combating this crime. I'll show you, for example. that the government has taken measures to provide for lower taxes and more in the wallet of those who serve at least. It's important that we balance social differences in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e768	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e773	I note that the Council of State includes money issues in the debate. The measures we are proposing here are measures that do not necessarily cost money, but are about new ways of working. That being said, it's fine, what I've said before – I'm glad that the appropriations for the police are going up. But we just got numbers that showed that neither last year nor the year before, the police spent the money they had on the budget. If you had better control with it, the Police Directorate could get more out of the money they had. Does the Council agree that the POD could use this money differently, or that one could use these budgetary resources differently, so that one had more resources for the police in the streets?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e781	I wasn't a state council in 2020 or the first ten months of 2021, but I'm recording that there's a under-use in the police during those periods, and that's not lucky. I have informed that we want the most of the money to come out to the police districts in local police force. It's not just the under-consumption that's a problem. It is also that the right has centralized the police with the police reform. There's a lot more money spent on bureaucracy and consultants now than it did before, and we're working on how we're going to make sure that more of the funds allocated to the police, actually reach the police districts, into the streets of Oslo and the rest of the country, to run with the prevention and follow-up of, among other things. children and young people, which is the theme here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e788	Then we agree that the police have got quite a lot of money, and then we can also agree that the Police Directorate might have been a little better in its management. I just have to remind the Council of State that it is right now Emilie Mehl who is the Council of State and has the constitutional responsibility. I have no one else to go to but the sitting council. Another thing the council took up in their post was that more money for the police should go to more staff. That proposal was agreed by the Council of State. Is there a signal that the government has gone away from the idea of establishing more police offices, among other things. in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e795	The government believes it is important to get the police into the communities in a better way than the Right has provided. That's why we want to work on setting up new police posts, and we're assessing it across the country, including in Oslo. We'll start that work in 2022, and we'll get back to where to put this. In some places it has become a very long journey to the police. Somewhere there's too little anchoring for the police locally. But we're also going to spend money on cops. It's at least as important, if not even more important, that we have more policemen who aren't just sitting in the office, but who are actually out on the street, out among people, talking to people, getting local knowledge and knowing the communities they work in. The right has now driven the police for eight years in a direction that has removed the police too much from the population. We're going to change that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e802	Now the state council didn't entirely answer what I was asking about -- the relationship between offices and people and whether this means that you shouldn't do anything in Oslo anyway. What is interesting is that when we made this proposal, it was in close dialogue with the police. We talked to the organized, the employees and the leaders of the police. The same ones are just as obvious as us that there are no new offices they need. Why won't the Center Party go away from the idea that it's good to set up more police offices? There will be no more police in the streets of building a new police office, for example. Mortensrud. There's going to be less police in the streets, because it's going to be manned.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e809	In fact, the right has closed down more than 120 loner offices, so there are plenty of places to have a loner's office without having to require large construction processes or entailing the greatest cost. We will come back to how we will proceed in that matter. We have now also gone widely to the municipalities to get their ideas on the kind of service they experience from the police, and what needs you see around Norway. In that process, it becomes very important for us to listen to the police themselves and to listen to the municipalities around the country, and the Police Directorate will also have important and good input there. We think it's important to see the whole thing. Although the representative from the Right has talked to someone who doesn't see the need for a police station right where they are, there may be a need for police stations elsewhere in the country. Therefore, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party will continue to establish more places of employment, after the Right closed too many of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e818	The Minister of Justice is quite right that very many decisions were taken during the last enlargement period. In the setting she refers to in her article - Inns. 147 S for 2020-2021, which is based on a proposal from the Progress Party for action against recriminalism – we were together across parties to a very large extent, which led to a very large number of good decisions being taken in Stortinget, which I hope will be followed up. That's really why I drew myself out, because I wanted to ask about especially one decision that was made. It was: ‘The government is asked to investigate whether, in exceptional cases, a new criminal offence of the same nature could lead to an increase in penalties, including criminal repeaters under 18 years of age.’ So it's about increasing penalties to some extent for those under the age of 18. I'm a little excited about whether there's an investigation going on, which the Minister of Justice sees positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e828	I am pleased that in December 2020 the Stortinge adopted several proposals to ensure a better response to and follow-up to juvenile criminals. It's right that the representative points out that one of them was to look at possible increased penalties. If I'm not completely wrong, part of it was also to see how to involve the parents to follow up the children in a better way, because many of these are minors. I'll follow up on this in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e833	That's very good. It really brings me on, because I think it is a little important that we now ensure that we implement the measures that have actually been adopted in the Grand Duchy. I think the Ministry of Justice has a lot to do with these days, for a lot of reasons, also with the follow-up to many of the decisions that were made. In particular, in 2020–2021, very many decisions were taken in the field of justice requiring follow-up from the Ministry. Then I would also like to hear if you want to follow up many of the other proposals that it says about, because in numbers there are well over ten decisions that were taken in Stortinget at that time. Can the Minister of Justice say a little more about the follow-up to the other decisions than the two she was in on?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e838	I don't think I'm going to try an oral review of every decision here and now, but I can say, as I was also in my main post, that you go into every decision and see how to follow it up in the best possible way. It's like... has been followed up by a proposal, sent to the hearing, and is now working on it in the Ministry in the light of the hearing replies. Some suggestions have been looked at and have to come back a little further, because there may be investigations that need to be made to find a good device for follow-up. For the government, it is important – and I think we agree on that, at least it sounds like that – that we have a wide-ranging effort to combat reindeer crime. We have with us all the elements mentioned in proposals today. We have with us the criminal reactions of which the Progress Party is concerned, although I do not fully agree with the approach to the punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e845	So the line chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The size would then take a break until voting time. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e870	The size is then ready to go to voting, and we start with the case no. 13-19 from Tuesday 29 March, Agenda No 61. The President makes it clear that there is a relatively long voting, so we ask the representatives to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e885	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left and Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 3, from Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 4, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red the proposals No 6 and 7, from Une Bastholm on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 by the Greens. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop further electrification of Norwegian oil and gas fields and to require oil companies to ensure zero emissions from the platforms without force from land.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the oil companies to develop new solutions for stable power supply so that fields electrified do not pull a cable into land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e928	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop all further electrification of the Norwegian base, including the Wisting field, with electricity from land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e943	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the Norwegian base operators to be required to electrify by expanding sea wind equivalent to the electricity consumed by them.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e958	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to stop further electrification of Norwegian cap with electricity from land.’ Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e976	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to grant an extraction permit for the extension of the Krafla/NOA field and the Oscar Wisting field.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e991	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Left and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for each ‘power-from-country’ project to be assessed separately and seen in the context of power availability and cost of action. New large power take-offs such as the electrification of petroleum installations with ‘power-from-country’ should be linked to areas where there is strong grid and good power supply.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1013	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1033	In the course of the debate, a total of five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Anna Molberg on behalf of the Right and Advance Party the proposals No 2–5, from Kirsti Bergstø on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that collective legal proceedings should apply not only to clubs and trustees who have members of an establishment which has hired workers from temporary staff companies, but also to trade unions and associations which have members of the hiring or hiring-out company.’ [[disciplinary associations]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals clarifying that the requirement of topicality in the event of illegal rental of goods is to be assessed at the time of the action.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose that Section 17-4 of the new third paragraph of the Working Environment Act should include the right to permanent employment. If it is first found that the lease-in relationship is or was illegal, the hired-in employee must not be prevented from promoting such a claim.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the right of appeal should also include illegal temporary employment and abuse of self-employed persons who are, in substance, workers.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1074	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to restrict access to collective redress for trade unions against illegal hiring to members of the trade union in question who are going to legal proceedings.’ The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1141	The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1153	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Right Party, the Progressive Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1168	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1183	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Alexander Stakkebø on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, by Alfred Jens Bjørlo on behalf of the Left the proposals No 3 and 4, from Mimir Kristjánsson on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a permanent system for the protection of the income of self-employed and freelancers in the context of the revised national budget of 2022.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1212	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the extension of the current improvements to the arrangements for recipients of daily allowances from 31 March to 30 June and return to the Grand Duchy with the necessary proposals for appropriations or legislative changes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1227	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests review of the day-to-day arrangements and assess permanent improvements on the basis of the changes introduced on 20 March 2020.’;» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1244	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a sample to review and assess possible improvements in the social rights of self-employed and freelancers, with delivery time at the latest within the revised national budget 2023.’ Red, Left, Green and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1269	All parties have now announced their support of the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1286	In the course of the debate, a total of twelve proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 2-7, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens the proposals No 8-10, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Left proposal No 11, by Alfred Jens Bjørlo on behalf of the Left and the Greens proposal No 12, by Alfred Jens Bjørlo on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2023, to propose changes to the withholding tax scheme which increases the number of days/year, cancels the income limit and sets the tax rate equal to the ordinary tax rate [[SEK 643,000 today]] [[(22 p.m. vs. 25 pst. (days today)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1319	There is a vote on proposal No. 11. from the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2023, to submit proposals to reintroduce the system of standard deductions for foreign workers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1334	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explore the possibility of facilitating the establishment of a Norwegian VPS account by foreign actors within the framework of proper compliance with international anti-money laundering and anti-corruption rules, where Norway applies the same practices as our competitors.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make improvements to the scheme less investment in start-up companies, with a view to increasing the use of the scheme and increasing investment in start-up companies in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1356	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Advancement Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a strategy to ensure a more investment-friendly Norway by 2030, with the aim of investing more both Norwegian and foreign capital in Norwegian enterprises.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1374	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 5 and 6, by the Greens, the Greens, the Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for a dedicated visa programme for researchers to allow several academics to work in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to simplify application procedures, reduce procedural time and ensure faster and easier access to D-number/person number and high-security e-ID for migrant workers, entrepreneurs and students from outside the EEA.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for an employers’ advisory service to recruit skilled staff with the technical, academic or practical skills requested from outside the EEA, so that employers can relate to the advisory unit rather than have to collect information across Nav, municipality, Foreign Directorate and Skatetaten.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1401	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Group of the European People's Party, the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Free Alliance. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a strategy to strengthen the establishment services and growth opportunities of enterprises established by international entrepreneurs in Norway.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1418	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to step up regional pilot projects against some industries or regions that want entrepreneurs or people with specific professional skills to move there for a period to ‘test-bu’, as for example has been done in Finland.’ The right and Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1435	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Left and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a strategy to attract more international investors to Norwegian growth companies.’ The right and Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1452	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to develop a model business visa or similar scheme to facilitate entrepreneurs from outside the EEA to start, finance and operate a business in Norway and return to the Stortinge in connection with the State budget for 2023.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1474	The Progress Party, the Left, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1493	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party proposal No 3, from Tone Wilhelmsen Thrøen on behalf of Right, Red and Patient Focus proposal No 4, from Olug Vervik Bollestad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus the proposals No 5 and 6, from Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider how the continuous development of decision-making forums for new methods can be integrated into the national health and interaction plan.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1528	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the right. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that the four policy objectives are followed and weighted equally in the New Approach system.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for work to be undertaken on a new pharmaceutical notification so that it can be dealt with in the Storting during the current majority period.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1552	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, Socialist Left Party, Red and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote a case for the Storting on the evaluation of the New Approach system.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1569	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, Red and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure increased user and clinici­cal involvement in the New Methods system.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1587	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present to the Stortinget, at the latest in the State budget for 2023, the follow-up to the evaluation of the Decision Forum on New Methods.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1611	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1630	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Sandra Bruflot on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and Red the proposals No 2-4, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Advancement Party, Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus the proposals No 5-7, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Patient's Focus the proposals No 8-11, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Patient's Focus proposal No 12, from Morten Wold on behalf of the Progress Party and Patient Focus the proposals No 13–15, from Olug Vervik Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus the proposals No 16-22, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–15, from the Christian People's Party and the Patient's Focus. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the prevention of drug use, in particular targeting young people, inter alia, by strengthening school drug education, ensuring a wide range of recreational activities in municipalities and strengthening awareness-raising activities.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a commitment to competence in the use of drugs for employees working with children and young people, including, inter alia, child-restraint workers, teachers, carers and health care workers.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure an overall offer in all municipalities in order to provide for young people who are exempted from prosecution under conditions of drug use or possession.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1683	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16, 17 and 19-22, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with a proposal for a compensation scheme for those who have been subjected to illegal coercive measures in connection with money laundering.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the interception of evidence of unlawfully acquired evidence in criminal proceedings for less than one year in order to ensure that the police do not use evidence obtained unlawfully.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the use of drug testing contracts for young people ceases until the government has evaluated the measure.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that harm-reduction measures are treated in the same way as drug prevention measures in the grant schemes for non-governmental organisations in the field of drugs’. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose that all possession of drugs for its own use punishable by fines be grouped together in a single provision with fines as upper rigidity.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that quantities are assigned to them only by penalising minor drug cases if there is a qualified risk that the substance would have been diverted.’ Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1728	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a legislative proposal to ensure that persons are prevented from reporting non-gross drug offences when they contact the emergency situation for help to themselves or others.’ Red, Left, Green and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1745	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Advancement Party and Patient Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that addicts who process fines are given the choice between fines, fines or treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1761	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-10, from the Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is not asking for proposals to decriminalise the use and possession of drugs.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the police’s work on the prevention and combating of drug crimes, including when trading online.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen its drug programme with judicial control.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1788	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen long-term care through the free choice of treatment site, without the drug addict having to have been through short-term measures first.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1805	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Patient's Focus. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the use of the vaccine Naltraxone.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1820	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 7, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Patient's Focus. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with an investigation into whether it would be useful for decision-makers and/or specialist health services to be able to print out more preparations to persons with serious drug problems in order to ensure better assistance on the road to drug freedom and a better life.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the use of Naloxone nasal spray to a national system for the treatment of overdoses.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1844	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Party of Advancement, Socialist Left Party, Red, Christian People's Party and Patient's Focus. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased treatment capacity for drug addicts to ensure immediate health care and not to wait for necessary treatment.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of care, including the capacity and competences of care, rehabilitation and aftercare.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide ideal treatment for drug-dependent stable and long-term conditions, so that drug addicts can choose which offer they want to participate in.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e1873	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Adoption of the Act on changes in the Health and Welfare Act and the Penal Code etc. I Law No. 22 May 1981 No. 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows: Paragraph 69 of the fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: Where criminal offences are considered to be proven, the prosecution authority may refrain from indicting the acquisition, possession or storage of drugs for its own use exceeding the quantitative limits for the freedom of punishment determined in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Section 31 of the Medicines Act and the third paragraph of Section 231 of the Criminal Code. The waiver of charges may be granted on the condition that the defendant does not commit a new criminal offence during a probationary period and that the purpose is to meet after the convocation of the Advisory Unit for Drug Matters, cf. the first paragraph of point (k). The rules of the second paragraph and the second and third sentences of the third subparagraph apply mutatis mutandis. The king may, by regulation, lay down quantitative limits for the use of the exemption under this provision. II In Law No. 4 December 1992 132 on medicinal products, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 31, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Acquisition, possession and use of doping agents, cf. Paragraph 24a, first paragraph, is penalised by fines or imprisonment up to 6 months, or both. Paragraph 31 shall be replaced by the following: Penalties referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply to infringements of the provisions given in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 22 or to infringements of Section 24 in the case of personal use of drugs or the acquisition or possession of drugs for personal use. The king may, by regulation, lay down quantitative limits for impunity under this provision. III In Act No. 4 August 1995 No. 53 on police: Paragraph 9(a) is added as follows: § 9 a Person, object or place of storage visit The police may search the person, subject matter or place of storage when it is likely that the person will hold a substance which is considered to be a drug in accordance with the rules laid down in Section 22 of the Medicines Act. Without the consent of the person, a visit to this section may only be made by decision of the chief of police or of the authorised person. If it is to be assumed that the purpose of the visit will be wasted upon delay, the decision may be taken by the on-site police. Details of the case and the scope of the visit shall be provided. The results of the visit shall be recorded as soon as possible. The police can seize and annihilate drugs held without legal access. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on visits and seizures in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. Paragraph 9(b) is added as follows: § 9 b Testing of drug influences The police may carry out a specific investigation into the existence of signs and symptoms of the influence of a substance which, under the rules of Section 22 of the Medicines Act, is to be regarded as a drug, when the person appears to be affected by such a substance and there are reasonable grounds for confirming or cancelling it. If the police consider that the person is likely to be affected by drugs, they shall be offered to carry out preliminary tests as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 22a of the Road Traffic Act or to be prepared for breath tests, blood tests, saliva tests and clinical medical examinations as referred to in the second paragraph of Section 22 of the Road Traffic Act, in order to seek to determine or remove the influence. The same applies if the police consider it likely that the person has used drugs, and testing after the first sentence is suitable for detecting previous use. Test, test or examination after the first and second sentence is carried out by personnel as specified in the third paragraph of Section 22a of the Road Traffic Act. Information on the implementation and outcome of measures following the paragraph shall be recorded as soon as possible. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the decision and implementation of measures under the paragraph. Paragraph 9(c) is added as follows: Section 9(c) Meetings of the Advisory Unit for Drugs The police may instruct a person to meet with an advisory unit on drug matters in the municipality when it is likely that the person has used, or tried to use, a substance which is considered to be a drug, or that the person has acquired, or attempted to acquire, or hold, or has held, such a substance for his own use, according to the rules of the Act on Medicinal Products, Section 22. Police may also require parents or others with parental responsibility for a person under the age of 18 who is required to attend under this provision to meet with the drug advisory unit. Decisions concerning the meeting obligation of an advisory unit shall be based. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on decisions taken pursuant to this provision, the notification of the decision, the transmission of the decision to the municipal advisory body and the processing of information by the police in such cases. Paragraph 30, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Penalty after first paragraph no. 1 shall not apply to failure to comply with obligations imposed in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 9(c). IV In Law 2 July 2004 No. 64 on the system of drug user rooms is amended as follows: Paragraph 4, first paragraph, is deleted. VT In Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 37(k) is replaced by the following: (k) the meeting of the Advisory Unit for Drug Matters following the convocation, provided that the conviction relates to the acquisition, possession or storage of drugs for personal use by convictions exceeding the quantitative limits for the freedom of punishment determined under the fifth paragraph of Section 31 of the Medicines Act and the penal code under the third paragraph of Section 231; or Paragraph 53, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: If the offender was under 18 years of age at the time of the offence, the court may decide that the execution of the sentence shall be suspended for a probationary period: [[conditional bone]] Paragraph 231 is replaced by the following: Penalties under the first and second subparagraphs shall not apply to the acquisition or storage of drugs for personal use. The king may, by regulation, lay down quantitative limits for impunity under this provision. VI In Law No 24 June 2011 30 on municipal health and care services n.e.c. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 3 to 9(b) are replaced by the following: § 3-9 b Advisory Unit for Drugs The municipality shall have an advisory unit on drug issues. This unit shall be responsible for meeting persons who are obliged to attend under the police law § 9(c). The same applies when the unit’s attendance is set as a condition for a specific criminal law response. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules concerning the advisory unit, including the organisation and content of the service, including the provision and interaction of other services and the processing of information by the municipality in such cases. Paragraphs 3 to 9(c) are replaced by the following: § 3-9 c Infringement fee The municipality may levy an infringement fee in accordance with: Section 44 of the Administrative Act twice the legal fee of persons who deliberately or negligently fail to comply with obligations imposed by law under Section 9(c) of the Police Act concerning the presence of an advisory unit for drug matters. Fees referred to in the first subparagraph may only be imposed on persons over 16 years of age. Fees may not be imposed if it would be excessive in view of the economic situation and the other circumstances of the offender. Fees shall not be imposed when the meeting of the drug advisory unit is set as a condition for a specific criminal response. The administrator shall deal with complaints concerning infringement fee decisions referred to in the first subparagraph. The central body of the country of collection shall levy a fee based on the first subparagraph in accordance with the rules laid down in Law No 11 January 2013. 3 on the Central Collection of the State. VII 1st@item: inlistbox The law applies from the time the King decides. The King may bring into force the individual provisions at different times. 2nd@item: inlistbox The king may specify transitional rules.» The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2076	The Right, Socialist Left, Red, Left and Environmental Party The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2095	During the debate, Mr Hagerup put forward three proposals on behalf of the Right, the Progressive Party, the Red and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in dialogue with education providers and relevant sectors, to investigate possible changes in traffic teacher training and, in particular, how access, flexibility and scale of training of heavy-duty vehicle traffic teachers in Norway could best meet the high demand.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess an alternative course of training for vocational training in which heavy transport becomes its own basic training in parallel with the training of passenger cars.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the level of tuition of road trainers is perceived as an obstacle to recruitment and, where necessary, to assess how funding or incentives can ensure that students’ own costs do not become too high.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2133	The vote will be taken at the next voting time on the agenda, agenda no. Sixty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2145	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud presented three proposals on behalf of the Right and the Progress Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Two and three. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size calls upon the government to consider the possibility of imposing a temporary ban on the use of two-axle towing vehicles when weather and driving conditions during the winter period so warrant.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to prohibit vehicle combinations that do not comply with winter chain requirements.’ The Greens and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2169	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up the necessary instructions for the State Road Service, the Tolletate and the police to ensure that the law on detention of vehicle trains until the fee has been paid and deficiencies have been corrected, is used in cases where verification reveals that the vehicle does not have satisfactory winter equipment or is in a technical condition challenging road safety.’;» Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2193	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2205	Case No. 2 was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2217	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of the Right, the Party of Advancement and the Left the proposals No 3-6, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of the Right Party and the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 6 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to put in place rapid tracks for the imprisonment of juveniles and convicts.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for permanent territorial armaments to be deployed in the affected areas of Oslo. a. where, in consultation with the GDE leaders, the Chief of Police considers it to be necessary to ensure the security of the population; b. as an extension of the point weapon, e.g. restricted to urban areas or geographical holdings; c. as a pilot project for possible similar measures in other parts of the country.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2254	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce a counter-violent alarm for convicts for the purposes of: to stop disturbances of public order or, where circumstances present a risk of such disturbances; ensuring the safety of individuals and the general public; to avert or stop offences.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to reverse the procedural burden by extending the possibility for the police and prosecution authority to impose a ban on multi-criminal referees without legal proceedings, but within the framework of Article 11 of the ECHR and the Constitution § 106, if: a. the area concerned serves as a place of refuge for children and young people, such as: schools, recreational clubs, etc. b. the presence of the person involves the risk of violence, recruitment to a rehab operation or challenges the obligation to care for the best interests of the child.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2288	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that new police funds are used for crews and prevention, rather than office premises, in order to create dialogue and trust in local communities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2303	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to introduce a weapon name path, exempting from punishment the possession of illegal weapons if they are submitted to the relevant authorities during a specified period.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2328	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2404	The President proposes that the representative's proposal be sent to the Business Committee. Mr. Hoksrud has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2411	Thank you for that, President. The transport industry and construction industries are industries that are currently struggling very much. We therefore propose that this proposal for a representative be dealt with in an urgent manner under the second paragraph of Section 39(c) of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2416	Two procedural proposals for document 8:174 S. Alternatively, between the proposal of the Presidency – let me say – on the committee reading and the proposal of the Progress Party on the procedure under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-31.ana.ud393e2450	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
