ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e203	The representatives of Even A. Røed, Runar Seestad, Hans Inge Myrvold, Roy Steffensen, Ingrid Fiskaa, Marit Arnstad, Per Olav Tyldum and Maren Gruthe, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Tellef Inge Mørland, Ingunn Foss, Ove Trellevik and Silje Hemdal on leave from 18 to 25 March and from the representative of Birgit Oline Kjerstad on leave from 18 to 24 March – all to participate in the Spring Session of the Interparliamentary Union in Indonesia by the Group of the Progressive Alliance on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representatives of Gisle Meininger Saudland and Hans Andreas Limi from 17 March onwards and until further notice by the Workers' Group on the Permit of the Representative Marianne Sivertsen Næss on 17 and 18 March to attend the OECD Parliamentary Conference in Paris These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for West Agder, Aase Marthe J. Horrigmo, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the mandate of the representative Ingunn Foss, on the basis of parental leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For East Agder: Abel Cecilie Knibe Kroglund 18–24. March For West Agder: Amalie Gunnufsen 18-24. March and Alf Erik Bergstøl Andersen 17 March and until further notice For Akershus: Liv Gustavsen March 17th and until further notice For Finnmark: Sigurd Kvammen Rafaelsen 17 and 18 March For Hordaland: Lise-May Seele and Sigbjørn Framnes 18-24. March For More and Romesdal: Kim Thoresen-Westre 18-24. March
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e328	Alf Erik Bergstøl Andersen, Liv Gustavsen and Sigurd Kvammen Rafaelsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e339	The representative, Sofie Högstøl, will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e344	On behalf of Guri Melby, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to move NBIM out of the Bank of Norway and introduce stricter rules on the sustainability of appointments. On behalf of the representatives of Guri Melby, Ola Elvestuen, Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to ensure full participation of Norway in the EU's common foreign and security policy, the CFSP.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e351	The representative, Mr Halleland, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e356	I would like, on behalf of the Advance Party representatives Himanshu Gulati, Roy Steffensen, Sylvi Listhaug, Morten Stordalen, Frank Edvard Sve, Silje Hämdal, Per-Willy Amundsen, Tor André Johnsen, Erlend Wiborg and myself to propose to remove fuel charges to compensate for exceptional price developments. I would also ask that the proposal be dealt with urgently under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e361	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e367	On behalf of the representatives of Abid Raja, Alfred Jens Bjørlo, Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik and I signed a proposal to help Ukrainian refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e372	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 4 will be treated as a whole. The cases are the second processing of laws and relate to the legislative decisions 46 to 49.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e429	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e445	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines of response will be given after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and six lines of response after submissions from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e452	Today, we are going to deal with a bill from the government on changes in the Swedish Social Security Act, the State Pension Fund Act and some other laws related to the change in the regulation of the old-age pension during payment. In the case, a hearing was held, where the Pensioners' Association took part. It is promoted by the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right and the Centre Parties. It supports the government’s proposal for the pension regulation model during payment in 2022 and the conversion of the regulation of the minimum pension level. At the same time, five proposals from a minority consisting of the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left and the Red Party are being promoted. The proposals involve: the deviation between expected and actual salary growth in 2021 is added to the 2022 regulation as a whole that the minimum pension level in 2022 is regulated by growth in earnings the government will establish a stepping-up plan to increase the minimum level of pensions to the EU60; that the government will return to the Stortinget with proposals for negotiating rights provision of the Pensioners’ Association in the Technical Calculation Committee; A proposal has also been made by a minority consisting of the Committee's member from Red to regulate the old-age pension during payment in 2022 after wage growth. Our pension system is one of the carriers of the Norwegian welfare state. The pension reform is a sprawl between today's pensioners, today's workers and our children, who will receive pensions in the future. Our pension system must be both economically sustainable and socially fair. There are major differences in the economy of pensioners. We need to ensure that people get a pension that ensures safety when they leave the labour market. The law is based on counting for the years you have worked. It is important that the system is both understandable and predictable for the individual. What we're dealing with in connection with Prop. 41 L for 2021–2022, means that we move to a more stable regulatory regime where pensioners will not lose purchasing power when employees get real wage growth. This has been an important matter for several of the parties at Stortinget, including the Workers' Party, but also for trade unions and pensioners, over several years. I am pleased that with this decision we have this new regulatory approach in place. The proposal proposes the regulation of pensions in line with Decision 622, which was taken in conjunction with the examination of the representative proposal 53 S for 2020-2021, on a drawdown for pensioners. Furthermore, proposals have been made to amend the rules governing the minimum level of pensions. This is done as a necessary adaptation to the proposals to regulate pensions during payment after an average wage and price increase. The changes in the rules presented are necessary in order to allow the conditional testing of when persons may start withdrawals before reaching the age of 67. The majority of the Committee points out in its comments that the minimum level of pensions will be increasingly lower in the long term compared to the general level of wages and salaries in society. I would like to stress that this development is independent of the changes that are now being made. At the same time, the majority point out that the minimum levels of social security are an important part of the mandate of the sample to evaluate the pension reform and consider that issues related to the development of the minimum pension level need to be addressed in the light of the report of the sample. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and of the Centre also state in their comments that the government parties have a clear political objective of increasing the minimum level of pensions, and believe that there must be a permanent change in the minimum levels in order to discourage the duplicating of the minimum pensioners. Such changes point out that these batches must be managed in the context of a more comprehensive and thorough follow-up to the evaluation committee report. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e491	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e496	For a long time, the Labour Party has urged that it should now be the turn of ordinary people. During the entire election campaign and after getting the keys to the government offices in hand, we have heard that it is common people's turn, but it seems to be forgotten when it comes to action. Once again, the Workers' Party shows that they are more concerned with talking about the status of pensioners than to follow it up in action. They vote down a proposal to increase minimum pensions in order to achieve the EU60 poverty target, and instead ensure that the minimum pensions in the years ahead are further weakened. Then it's time to ask: do you think the minimum pensioners are doing well enough as they do, or do you really think they're not among ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e501	As I underlined in my contribution, this development at the minimum pension level will occur regardless of the regulatory regime we have. That is why this is precisely part of the mandate of the evaluation committee that has been set up and will deliver its report in June. The working party has proposed and, together with several other parties, helped to make an impact on the increase in the minimum pensions during the previous ageing period. We have also said in the government platform that we will continue that increase, but we want to see this in a whole, look at it carefully and make sure that the minimum pensioners do not get hung over time. So we will come back to this after the pension committee has submitted its report.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e506	We just got a look in the VG that shows that since the pension agreement, the minimum pensioners have fallen by 61 billion. kr. Is it not then in place, in the run-up to the submission of the report, to make the best possible for the minimum pensioners by actually increasing the level, rather than waiting for an evaluation to come? Wouldn't it have been more useful, when you know that they've slowed so much after, to do something more than just wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e511	It is precisely what the Storing has provided – that there has been a significant increase in the minimum pensions in the previous period – and it is an intention that this government has been clear that it will follow up. But when you've put down a sample with a cross-political composition and good professionals, we think it makes sense to actually listen to what this sample points to. There is something the government points to in the proposition, and as government parties point out – that there is a concern about the long-term development of the minimum pension level. Of course, we'll look at that. The whole purpose of the pension reform is for it to be socially fair, and then we don't want the minimum pensioners to be dependent on it. We're very clear that we're going to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e516	The representative Moflag said in his statement that the pension system should be sustainable and fair, but the proposal presented by the government and dealt with today means that the minimum pensioners lose purchasing power. This year alone, it'll be cut by $95 million. kr, i.e. cut off the country's minimum pensioners. It is then reasonable to ask whether the representative Moflag believes that it is fair to hear it, and whether the wording of the government's own platform argues that the minimum pension should be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e521	Now we actually don't know how the increase – regulation – of the minimum pensions will actually turn out this year. This year, we're going to regulate pensions, both minimum pensions and other pensions, with an average of the price and salary increases. It's just a week since we got a whole new estimate of the current year's price growth, so the figure is 95 million. kr – the estimate we received a few weeks ago in response to the committee is not necessarily correct anymore. That's why we're very clear that we want to increase minimum pensions in line with what we've written on the Hurdal platform, in line with what we're referring to in the notes. But we want to see this in a long-term perspective, because we know that the minimum pensioners will be hanging for many years to come. Then we have to look at this in a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e526	I understand that the Labour Party will wait to increase the minimum pensions until the pension committee has submitted its report, but it is strange that it is precisely the minimum pensioners who have to wait. Today, we are dealing with a change, a significant conversion of the Norwegian pension system that obviously did not have to wait for the cross-political sample of experts, although these proposals were also promoted after it had been reduced. We have adopted substantial changes and the representative of the Workers' Party has been involved in proposing substantial increases for the minimum pensioners for several rounds before – after this sample was reduced. My question is why the minimum pensioners have to start waiting for this sample right now, when neither the Stortinget, the Workers' Party nor the government themselves are obviously interested in waiting, but on the contrary, even before the sample has made its report, a good deal of change proposals to the Norwegian pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e534	It might be worth reminding the representative Kristjánsson of what we are actually dealing with today. What we're dealing with is a law on how to regulate pensions from one year to the next. What we're doing today is removing the underregulation of current pensions, it's 0.75 p.m., and replacing it with a system where we're looking at an average of price and salary growth. The reason why we're also doing it for the minimum pensioners is that they need to know when they can go off if they want to go off earlier. Therefore, this change must apply to current pensions in addition to the minimum pensioners. Like many other parties in this room, we're concerned about the long-term development of the minimum pensions. That is why we have said that we will increase them, and we have said that we will take this seriously when the sample submits its report as early as June.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e541	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e546	This case, which we are going to adopt today in Stortinget, is a necessary legislative change that needs to be made as a follow-up to the size of the situation in 2020, thus changing the estimates of future increases in pensions. One went from what had been a cut of 0.75 p.m. to an average of price and salary growth, as a result of having had such a low pay settlement over several years that the pensioners actually lost purchasing power. This conversion gives slightly different results from year to year, but evenly over time it produces the same results over time. So what we're actually doing is we're going to adopt what's necessary legislative changes to follow what the Biggest has already decided. This is about how we regulate, and then the second debate is the level of minimum pension. In the eight years when the non-socialist parties had a majority, the minimum pensions were increased by NOK 4000 every year since 2016, and in 2021 increased by NOK 5000, i.e. a total of NOK 21 000, and this is in addition to the annual pension plans. There is a marked increase, which has made everyday life a little easier for the elderly who have had the least to walk with. The same majority also reduced the curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners, from 15 to 10 p.p., which amounts to approximately 9000 kroner for a couple. The level of minimum pensions will certainly be discussed, including in the annual budget debates. Then it is certain that someone is going to point out that it is the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Right that stand together in this matter. That is at least seen in the debate in the media. But that's not very strange. It was the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Right that – together with the Christian People's Party and the Left – supported the completely necessary pension reform, and it was because there were some challenges that had to be solved. Firstly, the sustainability of the pension system was not there when we got more older and fewer employees per pensioner. In the past, there was too little correlation between income from the professional career and the pension that was paid, and the pension scheme made some random pension payments. Many people felt that it was unreasonable that people with a good part of their working life could end up with the same pension as those without a previous employee income. The ability to retire before the ordinary retirement age of the population, at 67 years, was very unequally distributed. Large parts of the world of work are covered by the AFP. Some employee groups have a special age limit. However, there was also a large group that had no real offer of early retirement. In addition, the AFP scheme made it possible to leave work from 62 years of age, but it was designed to receive the same pension at 62 years of age that you had when you were at work for 67 years. So the system, in other words, gave a compound weak incentive to work longer than 62 years. For this reason, a pension reform was introduced which said that every year in working life, that anyone who achieves the level of the guarantee pension could retire from 62 years or later, if they so wish, that it was fully possible to combine labour income with retirement, and that a new guarantee pension would replace the minimum pension, a guarantee pension where there would be a maximum of 80 pst. curtailment of previous labour income, so that even for those who have only worked a little, only one year in the working life will pay off at the pension rate. It's important to remember that the number of minimum pensioners is reduced by almost 20 pst. Since 2011, but it became approx. 10000 more minimum pensioners in 2021 as a direct result of increased minimum pension. The proposal, which has been promoted by a minority in the Committee today, to increase the minimum pension of so-called EU60, i.e. 60 pst. of the median income, violates some basic principles of the pension reform. For such an increase, almost none who do not have the AFP will be able to go off at 62 years, and very few will be able to do so at 63 years, if they want to. In order to achieve – through own earnings – such a level, as the new guarantee pension would be, you would have to have an income of NOK 750000 for 40 years. Alternatively, NOK 500000, if you have an AFP. Or, one with zero earned in retirement would get 245 700 kroner, while one who has 42 years in work, with an average wage of 6 G, will get 303 000 dollars. This will be a break on the line of work, which is a very important pillar of pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e566	There is reason to thank the Progress Party, which has provided some social benefits related to retirement in the previous government period. We have asked the Ministry and the Government, through the examination of this matter, what the different regulations of the minimum pension will have to say. We have then been told in white that the proposal that came from the right-wing government, which the Workers' Party-Center Party government is now continuing, involves a cut of 95 million. kr only this year. That was the estimate we got from the government itself. My question is, was it a surprising figure for the representative of Asheim?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e573	It's a little difficult to be surprised, simply because this will fluctuate from year to year, and these are calculations based on what the price increase will be. I think we're all now seeing that the price increase swings violently, and many are experiencing increased costs. This was one of the arguments that the Stoltenberg government, of which Bergstø's own party was part, went for 0.75 p.m. instead of average price and wage growth. The reason why the Storting went away from the calculation that the Stoltenberg government argued well, and that the Right voted for, was that they had very low wage settlements, and when wages and salaries were low, it meant a reduction in the purchasing power of pensioners. Obviously, when you get such a number, you might think it was a little bit surprising, but the fact is that this is just an estimate of the price growth. We have to see what the result is. Then there is a pension commission that has received a special commission from our government to look at the minimum rates, to make sure that, for example, the labourer receives a pension that is good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e580	When the phase is available, and we see what has been the estimate and what is the result, and we see that the minimum pensioners will lose purchasing power with the new regulation – further loss of purchasing power is probably more correct to say – is my question to Asheim: Is it fair to increase the minimum pension, or is it still to be cut in the minimum pension in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e585	I'm absolutely sure we're going to have proposals on, and also decisions on, the minimum pension level, which are also different levels. But if you take a lone minimum pensioner, which has been a lot of attention in the budget debates, it may well be that the level should also be increased further. But now my point with the post is to say that it is not entirely unproblematic to just increase the minimum pension level quite strongly, as the representative Bergstø suggests in the committee now, because it will have a consequence for very many of those who work a long life, but who experience zero earnings in their pension because they get the same pension as one who hasn't worked at all. Therefore, it is very important to have a pension scheme that helps make working pay and that everything counts on the pension when you leave your pension. That is why there is a dilemma as to whether you should go as high as the representative from Bergstø suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e590	The pension reform, which SV has not been part of or supported by, suggests that a lot of individual savings should be made as part of its pension base later on. Therefore, in my view, it is unreasonable to compare those who have had the opportunity to save with those who have not. The representative Asheim points to the sample that will present his work in June, and then I wonder if Right can already assure the country's minimum pensioners that they will be in favour of the regulation that will ensure the best purchasing power for the minimum pensioners for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e597	Now we don't know what the pension commission is proposing. I am very interested in seeing what they are actually proposing to do in terms of the minimum pension rates, because we have to make sure that we have a sustainable pension system that also ensures good pensions for those who may never have been able to work. I totally agree with that. We're going to be positive about all the schemes that do, but it can't break with the fact that if we end up in a situation where the difference in pension is NOK 57 000 for someone who's worked for 42 years, compared to someone who hasn't worked, I think it's also going to be unfair for many employees in Norway. We have to make sure to have a pension scheme that allows you to lose early retirement if you have earned what is a guarantee pension, but the higher the guarantee pension becomes, the harder it becomes for people with low wages to go away before age 67. These are dilemmas that also the minority in this case have to take seriously if you are proposing to increase the minimum pension as much as you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e604	The representative, Asheim, replied to the representative, Bergstø, that a proposal to go as high on minimum pensions as that minority would here, he was not sure if it was right. But it's not a question of how high you can go, it's rather a question of how low you go, because we're now discussing a group of people living far below the poverty line in Norway. It may be called the EU60, but that is the poverty line in Norway, and when 150 000 people become poor in Norway through the pension system we have today, something must be serious wrong. The representative Asheim is concerned with the principles of the pension reform. Principality is fine, but the reality is that many pensioners in Norway are becoming poor by the Norwegian pension system. This is the question of whether the principles behind the pension reform are so important to the Right that it is accepted that hundreds of thousands of people are getting an old age in poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e612	With regard to the claim that they live below the poverty line, that is not necessarily true, because you have to include both the welfare systems you have, and you have to look at wealth. I'm not saying it's fat to be a minimum pensioner -- in no way. It's a low performance. But at the same time, some of the lines now come from parties that are against the whole pension reform. That means that there are parties that also have to see children and grandchildren in their eyes and say that we have a pension scheme that does not bear. The other thing they have to do is go out to the workplaces of people who have lived a long life in work, and say that they also become minimum pensioners, for the way the pension system works now, is that if you earn up to the guarantee pension, you can go off before age 67. If the guarantee pension increases, much more will have to go beyond what they have to do today, and much more will become de facto minimum pensioners who cannot influence their own pension with labour input. I also believe that this is unfair, and that is why this dilemma must be taken seriously by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e619	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e624	First, I would like to refer to the good presentation of the case by Mr Tuva Moflag. I would like to stress that this is a bill that follows from the previous decision to deposit, and not a proposition that takes a position on the retirement stoppage in ours. The Hurdal Platform has three important points regarding what we are dealing with today: Provide pensioners’ organisations with the right to negotiate in areas other than the regulation of pensions, thereby enabling them to discuss important issues in older policy. Regularise pensions based on the real average of price and wage growth. Increase the minimum pension. This is the government's work plan. On behalf of the Centre Party, I would first like to stress that the pension organisations should be given the right to negotiate in areas other than pension regulation. The premise for these negotiations must be attached to Stortingen’s proceedings and decisions, for example in 2022 for the retirement stoppage for 2023. Predictability is necessary. Clear frameworks in the negotiations are absolutely crucial, and it is important that we develop this more concretely. It is important to design measures, such as the cultural walking stick, schooling for easier access to digital forms, and economic incentives for interaction between pensioners, organisations and local communities to strengthen cooperation in the third sector. In the government negotiations with the Workers' Party, the centre party did not receive support for the Pensioners' Association to be included in the Technical Calculation Committee for the Settlement of Income, TBU, on behalf of pensioners' organisations. On this basis, the Central Party must vote against proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, SV and Red, in the setting. The fact that the Pensioners’ Association does not have room in the TBU is, of course, very unfortunate, because it is this sample that comes up with a common numbering material for wage making. The pension stoppages for more than one million pensioners are based on the same numbering material, and it is important that all important negotiating parties are around the table and are given transparency and responsibility for the result. In the view of the Centre Party, it is regrettable that the social partners, with LO and NHO at the head, are opposed to the Pensionist League being in the TBU. Predictability of the pension scheme is important both for providers of pensions and for pensioners. It is proposed in this proposal that the old-age pension during payment should be regulated by wage and price increases and that wage and price increases should be included in the regulation of pensions and that it should be defined in regulation at all. The relationship between the development of the minimum level of pensions and the development of the pension paid must be known. This would not be the case if the pension paid is regulated by the average of the price and wage increases, while the minimum level is regulated by wages and salaries less the effect of living adjustments. This is why the government has proposed a change in the regulation of minimum levels. Last year, the Centre Party did not have the support of the majority of the Stortinget that the principle of average wage and price growth would apply to both real wage increases and real wages reductions. So when the growth in wages is larger than the growth in prices, there's a real wage increase, and a real wage decrease when the growth in prices is larger than the growth in wages. The principle of average wage and price growth is now such that it pays when the real wage growth is less than 1.5 p.p. and is sailed at a real wage drop. What we decide today, cuts tops and raises the bottoms of pensions during payment, and that's fair after our assessment. With regard to the regulation of pensions in 2022, the fact is that several hearing bodies object to the management of the salary growth deviation for 2021. The wage growth for 2021 was estimated by the government to be lower than that achieved in 2021. The estimated wage growth was set as a ceiling for the increase in pensions during payment in 2021. Since the principle of pension regulation in 2021 was thus the wage growth rather than the average of the price and salary growth, this should now have been followed up with the same principle of regretting the change in the pension during payment in 2022 – this before calculating the average price and salary for the calendar year 2022. This has not been done by the government, and the government parties follow the content of the government's proposition. Increases in the minimum pensions are necessary. The minimum pensioners will constantly lag behind when taking a percentage supplement. What is now being done is necessary, and what is then the central one, is added to the minimum pensions of the future settlements. It will give the distribution profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e669	It is obvious that government parties choose to go against an escalation plan in order to increase the status of minimum pensioners. The so-called care and care of the weakest in society has proved to be a backdrop and a facade. In concrete policies, they are not willing to take the necessary action. The government parties say that the government has a clear political objective of increasing the minimum pension. It is then quite special to vote against a proposal that has that intention – if you have a goal of increasing it, in action and not just in words. My question is, how long should the country's minimum pensioners wait and be patient before they get a lift? How can the government parties expect to be believed that there will at all come a promise, if what they might do today in this hall, will be true to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e674	It's not the minimum pensions that are being treated here today. It is the technical system for regulating pensions. It has proved necessary to regulate pensions in the same way for all, with an average of prices and wages. In the case of minimum pensioners, it's obvious that as long as we regulate pensions by percentages, the minimum pensioners will lose. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary for one to have a special supplement for minimum pensioners in crowns, and that is what the Hurdal Declaration states, stating that one should increase the minimum pensions. How much we're going to increase the minimum pensions is a new question. The center part has always been on a supplement of minimum pensions in dollars, and we'll keep going on with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e679	It's true that here we treat it technically, how to regulate pensions. But it is clear – if you want to change the practice to be an average and not what has been the norm, that you actually take the deviation that was last year, the minimum pensioners will get less to next year. That's going to be the consequence of the decision we're making here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e684	The decision that is now taken, when one goes into the average price and wages versus only wages, is such that whether a servant or a loses on it depends on what is wage growth, and what is price growth. The proposal now being implemented, by a majority, means that pensioners will earn if there is a real wage decrease or a real wage increase of less than 1.5 pst, but will lose if there is more than 1.5 pst. It's the numbers that determine whether a server or a loses. But in the case of the minimum pensioners, it is the special supplement that will determine whether the minimum pensioners get a better situation, and it's the Centre Party for.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e689	The representative, Lundtigen, pulled out the government platform in his post and raised the wording related to the pension there. He also showed that it is clear that the minimum pension will increase. Then it must be said that the government has obtained a little bit of an uphill tray by going in for the regulations they have submitted. It is therefore natural to ask whether the representative Lundtigen can guarantee that in future draft budgets by the government parties we will be able to see both that the cuts are covered up and that there is a significant impact on the minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e694	So first of all, if it's uphill or downhill, it's the numbers that determine it. And as the representative Tuva Moflag said, the numbers that the committee had during its discussion are changed today, so it's completely dependent on how it evolves. I can't guarantee anything from here. The representative Bergstø knows that. But what I can guarantee on behalf of the Center Party is that an increase in the minimum pensions is the only principle of pension allocation that can correct the weaknesses of percentage supplements. If this government does not invest in increasing the minimum pensions, one goes away from a pension distribution profile of one million people in Norway. And I'm sure you're standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e701	The sums are not detached from what regulation you choose. It's a political question and not just a technicality. The representative, Lundtigen, was clear in his statement that the Centre Party had not got the Workers' Party to change the technical calculation selection so that the pensioners could fit there. Then it's natural to refer to the Center Party's program, where they say they'll set off a separate pot to improve the minimum pensions in the annual social security scheme. And then I wonder if the representative Lundtigen has the hope of getting a better impact on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e707	The representative Bergstø knows that this is not a simple snowflake, to use a practical expression. What we're doing today is changing the law according to previous decisions. It is a necessary change in order to obtain the necessary predictability. That's something that SV ignores, and it's regrettable. I have said from where the Senterpartiet stands in the case of TBU, that we did not get any information about it. The main reason is that LO and NHO are against it, and there's also SV a job to do to get LO on the right keel. Then there's a pot to the local measures within the pensioners' organizations. As I said carefully in my post: there are premises that need to be added to the annual retirement stoppage, which are used in the coming settlement. And the Central Party is working to provide funds for measures that can improve the interaction between pensioners' organisations and municipalities to strengthen the third sector. Here's an opportunity that's absolutely amazing with all the spread pensioners who are interested in their society.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e716	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e721	In the course of half a century, Norway has built one of the world’s best welfare countries. My generation and future generations to come should be grateful for the job our parents and grandparents have done to create – with hard work and management of the wealth of natural resources has given us – such a good welfare state. The choices that have been made before us, we enjoy today, and hopefully many generations will do the same. We're getting older and we're living longer and we're getting fresher. It costs more. But when someone sees this as a big expense item, we think it's well spent money that makes sure that the older generation lives a good life with economic security. About ten years ago, the Storting adopted a pension settlement. All the parties in Stortinget voted in favour, with the exception of the Advance Party. Why? The reason was simple: the elders should not be the balancing item in the state budget to make it jump. It's not worth it, and it's not right. Fortunately, this matter we are dealing with today is a follow-up to try to reverse some of what we did then. Over the last ten years, the Progress Party has repeatedly made proposals to strengthen the status of pensioners. Too many proposals have been voted down, but we got some improvement in cooperation with the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. Among other things, single minimum pensioners have had their pension strengthened, married and cohabiting pensioners reduced their curtailment in the pension, and the underregulation of the pension has now been removed on a proposal from the Progress Party and SV. Under-regulation of the pension of 0,75 pst. have led to a year-on-year loss of purchasing power by pensioners. The number from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion shows that there is talk of a total of 61 billion. So $6 billion. kr per year. There is a lot of money that the Progress Party believes the pensioners should have had. The party of progress has always been opposed to this underregulation. Now that is the story, and the country's pensioners will have a significantly better everyday life – we must all agree on that – and that is a great and well deserved victory. At the same time, I must say that I am disappointed today. I am particularly disappointed with the Workers' Party and the Center Party, which once again shows little consideration for the pensioners' living conditions. There's a lot of words and little action. Today's minimum pensioners live below the poverty line. Many have very demanding days, and they have to make tough choices to survive. For this group, pensioner life is not a nice postcard about pensioners on land repatriation. No, it's a everyday life where they have to choose between turning the heat on or turning it off to cook, but it's also a choice for those who give away things to afford to buy Christmas gifts for their grandchildren. Not only does it ensure that we vote down a proposal to increase the minimum pension by DKK 7500 a year until we reach the poverty target of the EU60, but it also provides a majority of the government's proposals that will lead to even smaller numbers of pensioners. When the minimum pension is to be regulated by means of wage and price increases and not the wage increases, as proposed by the Progress Party, SV and Red, nor do you want to correct for the deviation in 2021 – yes, the minimum pensioners will get even less. It's embarrassing. In the past, the Progress Party, together with the SV and the Centre, has proposed that the organisations of pensioners should have the right to negotiate in social security settlements. This proposal fell, but the proposal that organisations be able to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners in connection with the annual social security schemes was adopted by a majority in Stortinget. This is not followed up by the government. The government's proposal involves a large number of meetings with the government, not real negotiations on matters relating to pensioners. We therefore want the government to look again at how to meet this opportunity to negotiate for the pensioners. This does not get the majority today either, and it is disappointing. The party of progress has always been sidelined with the country's pensioners, and for years we have wanted a level playing field for the minimum pensioners. Today we get to something, but far from enough. We don't give up – we're going to continue the fight to improve the country's pensioners, including, in particular, the minimum pensioners. With that, I address the proposals of the Progress Party is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e746	The representative, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e753	The representative took up concerns about high prices, which we now see in society. Then I wonder why the representative believes it is right to have a solution that only pays off the salary increase for minimum pensioners. The average wage and price growth contributes to slightly lower levels of retirement in good years than the wage growth. But in difficult times, when prices are higher than wage growth, the minimum pensioners will be spared. Why does the representative believe that high-priced times are an argument for regulation based solely on wage growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e758	Now it's like the rules in force are regulating according to salary growth. Now we are in an exceptional situation, where the Progress Party has also put forward many proposals to reduce electricity prices, to reduce petrol prices – no later than today a proposal was made in this Chamber – and food prices as well. All of these things have to be part of and strengthen the purchasing power of the minimum pensioners, simply that they have to live a better life. That's our focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e763	The current rules are that the minimum pensions are regulated by means of wage increases less the standard of living, while what we are proposing is to go over to a system where we regulate by average price and wage increases. I felt that the representative was pleased that the underregulation of 0.75 p.m., which was then applicable to other pensions, had been removed. The reason why you want to look at both price and wage growth is that high prices are something that can be difficult to bear, and the fact that price growth is an element of regulation is positive when prices are high. Some years we even get higher price growth than wage growth. Then why shouldn't the minimum pensioners be compensated for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e768	The Ministry’s assessment focuses on the fact that, for the sake of simplicity, it will be better to have the same pension system and minimum pensions. It is the focus of the department, but at the same time, problems are being raised that it will be difficult to calculate early withdrawals of pensions by introducing the scheme that is focused on from the majority. We want to raise the minimum pensioners. That's why we have the focus on wage growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e773	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e778	I want to start with the background of the matter we are dealing with in Stortinget today. It is about SV and the Progress Party joining forces in the previous enlargement period to stop the underregulation of the pension that has led to the loss of purchasing power for the country's pensioners for a year. Therefore, we proposed that pensions be regulated as the average of wage and price increases. A majority joined and agreed on the dignity promise we took the initiative to make. It was a necessary boost for the country's pensioners and also provided an increase in the minimum pension. It was a great victory and important for the country's older people. But when the right-wing government was going to follow up the proposal that had its support in the Storting, they chose an unsocial twist by regulating the minimum pension in the same way, which means that they will get less living. It was never part of the original proposal we made, nor has it ever been relevant for SV to agree to. Today, 146 000 people live on what is called the minimum level of pensions. The vast majority of them are women. Many of them have less to live on than what is considered to be the EU poverty line, and the minimum pensioners have less to live on year after year, as has been said in the debate. There are people who have to turn the crown as Christmas approaches and grandchildren are going to have Christmas gifts. There are people who have to struggle with high power bills now, and many have called it at home. There are people who have to spare themselves if they're going to escape something in cultural life or something extra on the table. If we're going to do something about the growing differences in Norway, we're going to have to redistribute. We have to put an end to unsocial cuts and make sure that those who have little get more living off. Unfortunately, we now see that the unsocial cuts continue even if the Right is out of government offices. SV has worked hard to make the outcome different from what the majority gathers about today. The adjustment of the minimum pension level with the average of price and salary increases leads to an even greater loss every year of all beneficiaries of the minimum pension and guarantee pension than they already do today, at least according to the government's own figures, which show that only this year are the minimum pension cuts of 95 million. kr, and that the minimum pensioners will continue to lose more in the coming years. So the Labour Party and the Center Party have made an unsocial proposal that the Right made last fall, made it their own and now joined with the Right to get a majority. For SV, it has never been relevant to agree, so we are separating layers today. We believe that the minimum pension must be raised, not down, as proposed. The SV proposes that the minimum pension be regulated in line with wage growth, and that an escalation plan be needed for the minimum pension, which increases by DKK 7 500 per year, until the minimum pensioners have reached the poverty line. To me, it is quite incomprehensible that the government parties want to join with the Right in order to get a majority for such an unsocial proposal. They have chosen their way, we choose ours. We also want to strengthen the right to negotiate, as regards both arrangements for settlements and matters that are important for the elderly in the budgets, and we suggest that the government should correct for the deviation between the estimated wage growth in 2021 and actual wage growth. Head of the Pensioners' Association, Jan Davidsen, has used rather harsh words in describing the proposal we are discussing today. I just want to point out that more people have pointed to the Pension Commission, which is going to present their work. What we are adopting today requires major political changes and a willingness to re-distribute into further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e801	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e807	The representative Bergstø wants to get the pensioners into the technical calculation selection. The technical calculation selection plays an important role in the Norwegian model by laying the basis for good negotiations in wage settlement. Then it's also natural that those who are represented are the same actors who participate in the paycheck. The question is: what role does my representative Bergstø play in the pension system, which means that they are represented in the technical calculation selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e812	It is linked to our desire that the pensioners' organisations be given the right to negotiate, in addition to matters relating to the elderly, and which are promoted in the budget. It is then important to have an agreement with regard to the view on the calculation basis and the numbering material. That's why we think it's natural that the pensioners get a place there as well. It's also something they've wanted for themselves, and we think it's reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e817	I think I'm still a little bit searching for exactly what the role that group is going to have there, and what will happen in the day-to-day work. But I have another question. There are many organisations that are influenced by paychecks. Does the representative believe that there are organisations or groups other than the pension lists to be represented? How does the representative Bergstø see that this will affect the further work of the payroll, if everyone who is affected by the data is to be represented in the technical calculation selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e822	SV has not proposed or aims to have as much as possible represented in the Technical Calculation Committee. We have promoted this proposal because it is closely linked to the vision we have of democratic anchoring and the work relating to the settlements of social security. In today's debate, several have referred to the Technical Calculation Committee and their numerical basis and how it can vary. In order to have an appropriate role in social security provision, it is natural to have the same numbering material and basis before those negotiations are to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e827	So this is what I said in my post, that with the level of the minimum pension that SV is now proposing, you will have to work for 40 years with 750,000 kroner in average income to go beyond the guarantee pension level. As the pension reform is now structured, it means that you have to work until then, with such length of service, and then work longer to avoid becoming a minimum pensioner. Does the representative of Bergstø believe it is fair for an employee who has been in employment for over 40 years and who has had an average Norwegian salary to become a minimum pensioner?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e832	SV and Right split layers in very many areas. We separate layers in the view of the working line, and we separate layers in the view of the pension reform. The core of the question to the representative Asheim is just the way the pension reform is organised, because here there is a basis that we do not agree with and that we believe is the basis for looking at. The question of justice must be related to what people actually have to live on. We see that the pension reform has a lot of unsocial outcomes. We see that there are large groups that are losing, and we see that there is a gender and class dimension that has a very hard impact page just in the pension reform and its results.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e837	From 1967, with Egil Aarvik and Per Borten, it was an important principle that we should have a pension for everyone no matter what income you had in your working life. That was a big step forward. One has to follow up on that progress, because the minimum pensioners today have in many cases well under NOK 200,000 if you live together. Is a one, has a 223,000 kroner. Everyone knows what it means with today's cost level. My question is: the representative Bergstø said that the minimum pension should be regulated as the salary increases, i.e. the minimum pension is regulated as the salary increases, while we know that pensioners with supplementary pensions get their pensions regulated on average by price and salary. Does SV want this to be a permanent scheme for the minimum pensioners, to be regulated in line with wage growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e844	SV is to look at different ways of regulating the minimum pension as long as the numbers go up. We don't commit to one model, and we've also promised in conversations with the government parties that it's not the models that matter, that's what people have to live with. That is why I look forward to the work of the Pensions Committee and how all those who today have raised the very importance of a worthy pension for everyone, with whom the representative Lundtegen opened up, will follow it up through practical policies. It's a deep unbelievability that we have groups of older people who get their purchasing power weakened and who actually live below the poverty line. There we have to go back to the goal of a worthy pension for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e854	Let me start by quoting a political thinker who has meant a lot to me, namely Wenche Myhre. She sings: When you get to 66, first you take your life. When you get to 66, you do what you want. When you get to 66, first, life gets cool. When you get to 66, you can step too far. There's a little bad rhyme at the end there. Wenche Myhre's political philosophy has a weakness, and that's that it's a good idea, but it doesn't work in practice. Believe me, that kind of political philosophy we know well in Red. The reality is that very many people who are 66 years old in this country, at all, can't do what they want. The reality is that 150 000 Nordics live on the minimum pension: 223,000 kroner a year if you're single. So it's an amount far below the poverty line. It's an amount on which it's not possible to live a worthwhile life, at least not when the electricity prices, the food prices, the housing prices and the petrol prices reach the levels we see today. Then you'd think there was a large majority in this room to raise and raise the minimum pensions. After all, it was to be thought that we in Norway had come so far that old age should not mean poverty. Therefore, it is surprising that what is happening today is that a political horse-shoe consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Right is voting down a proposal from a political counter-horseshoe consisting of SV, the Progress Party and Red for a political escalation plan – an obliging plan to raise the minimum pensions to the poverty line. So it's not going to be lucrative to be a minimum pensioner in the future; the only thing we're asking for is that you don't have to be poor when you live on a minimum pension. What is adopted here today, on the contrary, means that the minimum pensioners are less likely to travel forward. It is not just an increase; a new underregulation is adopted. The representative Moflag said that the underregulation is being removed today. That's not right. A new type of underregulation is adopted which, if it works, means that Norwegian minimum pensioners will lose 20,000 payrolls by 2040. So the minimum pensioners are going to be $200,000 poorer until 2040. So many of the parties here say yes, but the minimum pensioners will get a boost once in the future. We're waiting for the pension committee. We're waiting for the payroll. We're waiting for the state budget. Wait, wait, wait -- the minimum pensioners are waiting for Godot, they. He'll never come. The minimum pensioners have been waiting for decades to get their pensions lifted, and too little has happened. There is no credibility in this waiting, and unfortunately it is that all the world's smallest pensioners also do not have such a good time and so many years to wait. If you're going to do something about this, you're just going to have to get a little bit more speed than you have. Finally, I have to settle with one of the most used and abused bottles in Norwegian politics, namely: It is worth working. Firstly, for all practical purposes, it always pays off to work in Norway. Second, it's not optional when you choose to retire. When you listen to politicians, it is made as if people choose to retire or to stay at work a little bit extra. Clearly, if the job is like mine – jumping up and down from the pulpit – it is probably the reality. The only damage to wear that I can get is to wear out the heavy band. But ordinary people in ordinary professions have to give up long before some form of retirement age because they have worn out their backs, worn out their knees, destroyed their bodies. For them, it is not a matter of choice – choosing to stand a little longer because they are motivated in the job. It's a question of coercion. The job has worn them out. It has deprived them of the opportunity to continue working. I have to say, I think it is strange that you almost push low pay in front of yourself to keep your pensions down. If you're so busy working, there's a nearby solution, and that's to raise the salaries of ordinary people and people in poorly paid professions. It may not always be that the only way in Norway it is worth working on is by pressing down social security and pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e891	The President assumes that the representative will address the Red's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e897	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e902	The representative, Mr Kristjánsson, then took up Mr Rødt's proposal. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e909	We all agree that decent pensions should be available in Norway, and therefore the minimum pension was also increased in the previous period, with a total of NOK 21 000. At the same time, we don't have to get into a situation where the minimum pension and the pension of a normal industrial worker are almost the same, because it's actually going to pay off to work. We're facing a reality where the number of people who work per pensioner has fallen dramatically. In 1967, there were three and a half active persons per pensioner. Now it's 2.1, and by 2060 we expect 1.5 active per pensioner. So my question is, what kind of relationship does the party have Red to such numbers, and how do they imagine that the pension will be for the next generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e914	Firstly, I disagree with the representative Molberg that everyone agrees that we should have decent pensions in Norway. If all agreed, the minimum pension in Norway would not have been unduly low, so at some point someone must have approved indecent pensions in Norway. If there was just such a touching consensus about decent retirement, everyone would have had a decent pension. So I don't know any industrial workers in all of Norway who don't want the minimum pensioners to get a lift. I only know right-wing politicians who think that way. Industrial workers are people who work hard in Norway. Of course, they want a rise in pensions, and Red is not just to raise minimum pensions, Red is against the pension reform in general – Red is against the overall life- expectancy adjustment, Red is against the pension scheme in general. So the question is how are we going to finance this? Well, if you're concerned about the sustainability of the welfare state, you have to collect money from the crazy private consumption growth that's been in Norway for the last 20 years. So that means that you let the rich pay, instead of sending the bill to the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e921	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e926	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposals for amended regulation. The Labour Party has already voted on this as early as 2017, and now a broad majority on Stortinget is also going in to change the regulatory rules. With the proposals that are being considered today, we ensure that pensioners do not go negative when employees go positive. This law is about replacing a system in which current pensions are regulated by wage growth less a fixed deduction, by a system in which current pensions are regulated by the average of price and wage growth. Over time, developments are expected to be similar, but in a single year, this could result in both lower and higher regulation. It is still premature to conclude whether the new rules would result in higher or lower regulation in 2022 than the old rules. We do not get this phase until the final wage and price increase for 2022 is fixed. I record that some people are trying to use this law to get through policies that are more than regulating retirement. The representatives of SV, the Advance Party and Red propose, among others: an increase in minimum levels. I share the concern of these representatives for the development of the minimum levels in the longer term, and it is clear from the Hurdal platform that the government will also increase the minimum pension. The long-term challenges related to minimum levels are central to the mandate of the Pension Reform Evaluation Board. It is important that the main principles of the pension system are broadly political and that the pension system is both socially and economically sustainable. The follow-up to the outcome of the evaluation committee must ensure broad political agreement on the levels of minimum performance. The government therefore believes that it is in the follow-up to the selection’s setting that is the time to make major changes to the pension scheme — not a technical legislative act. I need to comment on the comments on the regulation of the minimum levels of representatives from SV, the Progress Party and Red. Firstly, it is claimed that the proposals would result in lower regulation than the continuation of current rules. As I've already been involved, we don't know if this will be the case. We only get the fasitite when the final wage and price increase for 2022 is ready. With the adjusted price increase presented by TBU last week, it is not surprising that the proposals in the proposition would actually provide better regulation than the current rules. The challenges associated with the evolution of the minimum levels over time do not arise with this proposal; they were already there. The representatives of the SV, the Progress Party and the Red Party consider that it is not necessary to amend the rules governing the regulation of minimum levels, even if the rules governing the current pension scheme are changed. I disagree. But even if that had been the case, I have problems understanding the logic from saying that today's model «is, in the opinion of these members, possible to continue pending the presentation of the work of the Pensions Committee», to propose regulating the minimum levels of wage growth. Regulation with wage growth is not a continuation of today's model, and it will not solve the challenge of early take-off conditional testing. The only reason why the government has maintained the proposals for amended regulation of the minimum levels that the previous government sent to the hearing is that this technical solution allows for the early take-off test to be carried out on the appropriate basis. In the consultation round, there was no alternative solution to ensure this, the proposals received broad support in the consultation. However, the evaluation committee has been given an opportunity to assess this in addition to its original mandate, in line with the request decisions in this Chamber about a year ago. So the solution that we are adopting today is only meant to be a temporary solution pending the sample and the Storting's follow-up to the sample's assessments. I would also like to comment on the claims that increasing the minimum levels does not weaken the working line. Increased minimum levels do not only lead to higher pensions for pensioners. For many, this means that they receive exactly the same level of pension as before, but that the professional effort they have had over many years does not give any retirement benefit. I believe that it is both right and important that work should provide pension payoffs, while at the same time having good minimum levels for those who have low or no own earnings. Therefore, I am pleased that a pension selection with both representatives appointed by the parties to the Stortinget and experts assess the minimum levels in an overall context. I also register that SV, the Advance Party and Red agree that the deviation in the salary increase from 2021 will be fully reflected in the regulation in 2022. I allow myself to wonder if they would have gone in for the same principal position if the deviation had been opposite sign. I guess the answer is no. We should not adapt what we believe to be the right principles, according to what the estimates for wage and price growth are. It is both economically irresponsible and risky. The last few years have shown how difficult it is to estimate what the price and wage increases will be, and how wrong we can take. Last year, the Stortinget decided that the regulation would be implemented in 2021 as if the rules had been transposed retroactively from 2020, because the estimates of wage and price growth indicated a very poor performance with the current regulatory regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e951	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e956	Let me begin by welcoming the Council of State to the Storting in a new role. We look forward to good cooperation with the Council of State also in this committee, so it will be exciting. As it extends, we have a pension committee, which has announced that they will present their position on 15 June. That means that this will gradually come to the Storting and will be dealt with here. I understand that this may be a bit demanding to answer to the Council of State so early into its new Council of State, but how does the Council of State view dealing with such a complicated and big issue, which is also a follow-up to a pension settlement? Does the Council of State see a broad cross-block settlement, or does it see fit to seek cooperation with the party with which the government normally settles the budgets? My second question, because I guess I just get a line, is if the Council of State thinks it's important in the follow-up to the Pension Commission that you don't distort the generational accounts of the pension system, that is, that there won't be a shift in costs from future pensioners to current pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e965	The representative of Asheim may have two lines, but first the State Council of the Persians.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e970	There were two questions, so we'll see if we can answer everything. But first thanks for the welcome – it is nice to come back in this context. When it comes to how we are going to deal with the Pensions Committee's attitude, I think I want to come back to Stortinget with a proposal on this. But I want to stress that pension is a big and important question, and as I also said in my post-post, it is important that we have a broad majority of people associated with changes in the pension system. To the second question, I just have to stress the importance of the generational contract, including in the case of the pension scheme. It is in many ways the whole background of pension reform that we should ensure that future generations too. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e979	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e985	It's going so fast today, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e990	Now I got another line, so then the council can continue, I kept on saying! But first let me just illustrate it a little bit: in the discussion we have now, several of the other parties in this room have argued that they are against the whole pension reform. They are against all the principles underlying the pension reform, which are in the form of an agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right. Then the question to the Council of State is whether it is not a demanding thing to adjust a pension reform that the parties in the hall today – the minority – have indicated that they are opposed on principle. That is why I ask whether the Council of State sees fit to seek cooperation with the original settlement partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e995	As I answered instead of just that question, I want to come back to concrete how we present the changes, because it's hard to anticipate what the sample actually comes with. However, I stress that I think it is important that we have a broad majority that is behind our pension system, precisely because it is going to be over important and long times. Then the pension reform is also a generational contract, on which the representative is involved, and we are becoming more and more pensioners in proportion to the number of active people we have. Thus, it is simply not sustainable, as I see it, that a small number of economically active people are paying more and more for pensions to more and more pensioners. That challenge could have been solved in many ways. One possibility could be to regulate only with price growth. At that time the purchasing power would e.g. have been maintained, but pensioners will be less compared with employees. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1002	There's something about the clock that's right in front of the pulpit!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1007	I'm going to follow it closely, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1012	Yes, welcome to this committee! The government has stated that they have an objective of increasing the minimum pension, and this week a budget conference has been held. The last time the government parties negotiated the budget with SV, the pension was not mentioned in one word. When will this increase come, and is it an objective for the government to raise the minimum pension to the EU60 poverty target, or is it more concerned with keeping the minimum pension at a low level in the interests of the working line?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1019	I want to stress once again that the proposed changes to these rules today, they do not change the fact that the minimum levels are regulated lower than the wage increase, as has been done since 2011. The new thing is that, as with other old-age pensions, it is proposed to regulate with an average, which is estimated to provide more regulation than current rules. So I can stress once again, as I also said in my post, that this government shares the wish and the political sense that we should increase the pensions of the minimum pensioners, as it is formulated in the Hurdal platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1026	I would like to begin by congratulating the Council of State on its new responsibilities and warmly welcome here. We look forward to cooperation. And then we're all over to my question: we see that increasing prices of food, fuel and electricity hit hard for people who have little. It's the minimum pensioners we're talking about today, who are already struggling to get the ends to meet, and if we're going to do something about the increasing economic differences, those who have little, need to get more living off. And nothing should be more pleasing than whether the state council's claim is correct, namely that the estimates of numbers that we've got from the government do not turn out to be voting. But if they do, how will the Council of State ensure increased purchasing power for the minimum pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1033	As I have stressed several times, this change is primarily about regulating the minimum levels with the average wage and price growth, and then we will only know the result of it when the final determination of wage and price growth for 2022 is ready. It's already getting higher, just as a result of the troubled times in which we live, where prices have increased, by 3.3 pst. with the provisional estimate of the Technical Calculation Committee. Then I share Bergstø's commitment to increase the minimum pension, and I'm clear that there has to be a permanent change in the minimum levels to counteract the fact that the minimum pensioners are depending on. However, I believe that this must be done in the context of a comprehensive and thorough follow-up to the evaluation committee's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1040	It will take time, as the Council of State itself has said, for the report to come and be dealt with politically. The minimum pensioners, who are struggling to get the ends to meet today, must have an assurance of what they will have to live for in the time to come. And therefore, I simply wonder if the Council of State can guarantee that the country's minimum pensioners will have increased purchasing power every year by her post.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1045	At least what I can guarantee is that I have to work hard to get it done. And then we are living very troubled times right now, where the prices, which the representative himself had in the previous line, are dramatically increasing as a result of Russia's international invasion of Ukraine – both food prices, energy prices and fuel prices. Everything is increasing, and times are troubled. But it is clear that when the estimate in this increase, the average will also increase from the technical estimation sample, which is 3.3 pst. We want to work politically for it when we get the sample report. This matter is primarily about that you should be able to calculate the right time for when you are going to be able to leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1051	I must wish the Council of State happiness in a new job. The councils and I are meeting in ever-new roles in more and more places. My question is really about the concrete thing in the matter itself, namely how one has chosen to solve the transition from new to old regulation system. So this has been done in a way that in practice reduces Norwegian pensioners, according to the Pensioners' Association's estimates, 2 billion. kr or a couple of milligrams per head. So it was through a rudimentary calculation of the follow-up, the average of the wage and price increases, that you've done it the cheapest way for the state and the most expensive way for the pensioners. And then the question is what would you want in principle, and how would you want it to be? However, this is a concrete transitional year in which pensioners have been depreciated by 2 billion in practice. kr. Then my question is to the Council of State: why do you feel that there is a reasonable thing to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1056	I want to stress that it is always nice to meet the representative Kristjánsson in new roles and thank you for all the nice greetings when I come to Stortinget in a new role. I want to say that the deviation was made in 2020. That was the last year in which the adjustment of the pension was made with the salary increase minus 0.75 pst. We made that transition last year. So this is going to be doing it again, if necessary, and we haven't gone into this case. This is a legal regulation that is primarily to ensure that the average wage and price increase is calculated as a starting point for determining the time when pensioners will leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1063	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1068	I would like to take the floor for an explanation of vote on an important matter. Overall, I would like to say that we support the government's proposal to regulate pensions. But we have some exceptions, and as the representatives may have seen, we have made a loose proposal – which I also mention before I forget. There are three points I need to make: The first point is the proposal for the regulation of 2022. The proposal does not compensate for the entire deviation between the estimated wage growth and the actual wage growth, and the deviation becomes a significant amount in which pensioners are now not getting involved, despite the fact that there has been a tradition of correcting the deviation between what has been estimated and what is actually growth in social security provision. As I read it, the ministry also has no fundamental arguments against correcting the whole deviation, but they have chosen another solution for simplicity. So we support a broad movement from the employee side to the pension organisations, and I agree that it should be corrected for the whole deviation between the estimated wage growth and the actual wage growth, and therefore we will support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The second point where we disagree with the government is the proposal that the minimum level of pensions should be regulated in the same way as pensions during payment – i.e. after average wage and price growth. The government is justifying the fact that it is also about simplifying the system of popular protection. However, we believe that the need for simplification cannot justify a change that would make minimum pensioners worse off than today, and that is why we will also support proposal No. 2, that the minimum pension level is regulated by wage growth in 2022. The third point is a point that we've been dealing with for a long time, namely the lone minimum pensioners, and that's because it's the ones that have clearly the lowest incomes among the pensioners. Since 2016, we have benefited in many rounds to increase the disposable pension of minimum pensioners by NOK 12 000, and at the latest in the comparison between the Advance Party and the Solberg Government last year we increased by NOK 5000. Nevertheless, we believe that for single minimum pensioners there is a need for continued growth, and that is why we are promoting a loose proposal which is about the fact that the government has to come back in 2023 with a stepping-up plan for single minimum pensioners, and that the first increase will come into the state budget for 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1083	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1090	The pension system may be complicated, but the principles to be based on are really pretty simple. Everyone is going to have a basic pension that gives a minimum insurance, and then you're going to get a pension depending on the amount of effort you put in. Society is changing, and it is important that the Storting follow up with the necessary focus, changes and adaptations of pension legislation. This growth period we have adopted a pension from the first dollar. Today, we are dealing with changes in the Swedish Social Security Act, and in June, the Pensions Committee presents its position for further and thorough treatment. In 2018, the Workers' Party and SV promoted proposals that would secure pensions from the first crown, but were then voted down. Fortunately, after further investigations, there was a majority in pension from the first crown, and the rules came into force on 1 January this year. Enterprises have time until 30 June of this year to adapt their pension schemes to the new rules. The new rules will provide for approx. one million employees in the private sector earn a pension from the first penny you earn. For those who have high wages, this change means little, but for those who have low wages, the change can mean a lot to future retirement. The old rules are exempted for workers under 20 years of age. All teenagers who work after school or during part of their summer vacation were not paid for this in the form of a future pension. Pensions are important and affect everyone, but pension saving is not a matter for most teenagers. This is precisely why it should not be up to the employer or the individual employee. Young people who contribute early in working life deserve to build up pensions on the same lines as other workers. The introduction of a pension from the first crown is an important step in the right direction to ensure better service for those who are still at work. As we live longer and longer, it will become even more important that as many as possible have secured a record they can live a good life of the day they are going to walk out of work. With the Norwegian welfare model no one should have to save alone. Employers and the state should contribute to ensuring that everyone has good opportunities to live well as a pensioner. A statutory service from the first krona does not affect anyone more than others. No business will thus be hit harder than others and thus have a competitive disadvantage. The industries that are mostly unpensioned from the first krona are demand-driven enterprises. The need for hotel accommodation for employees in the commercial, travel or clean-up industries is not diminished by the fact that the employer receives an additional cost of NOK 2000. I look forward to the pension committee presenting its position in June. There will be an important contribution to further work on future pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1107	Finally, we get to do something about the unworthy treatment of the country's pensioners. Because of the pension reform, which the Progress Party as the only party voted against, the pensioners are getting less and less money for their pension, while the majority of people are getting better purchasing power. It is therefore very gratifying that an aggregate increase today confirms that under-regulations are to be eliminated and that pensioners are to be guaranteed a growth in income equal to the average of wage and price increases. Getting rid of this underregulation has been a ten-year fight for the Progress Party. It is still a good measure of decent retirement for all the country's pensioners, but it is worth glad that this unfair underregulation is now disappearing. The Progress Party has wanted pensioners to have the opportunity to negotiate their pension. We think it was unfortunate that pensioners' organisations lost an important role in removing the right to negotiate with the pension reform. We have previously proposed a reintroduction of the right to negotiate for the country's pensioners. It was voted down, but there was a majority in favour of pensioners being able to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners. Examples include resources for the elderly or training of the elderly in computer technology, which may be useful in their everyday lives. There may be day centres or other activities for the elderly. There is a great need to raise the number of pensioners, not only with a strengthened pension, but also to inform pensioners’ organisations about what they can negotiate. The government's follow-up to this decision, to which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Right belong, are several meetings, but what shall all these meetings contain? What can organisations influence, and what can they not influence? That's a question that's still completely blue. For this reason, the Progress Party, together with SV and Red, is promoting proposals today that the government should come back to the Stortinget with clear proposals to this effect. Unfortunately, it will not have a majority. I'm glad that the pensioners are now getting a decent promise, it's time. And I'm glad that it was this case that was on the case list right now, so this could be the theme of my first post from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1122	In this case, it is confirmed once again how difficult it is for the Progress Party to obtain the necessary leverage for the country's pensioners. I said earlier that when we were in government, we got a lot of things, but there was no simple matter either. Now, when you hear today that this is just a technical change that's about to happen, that this has no effect on the pension of the minimum pensioners, I think you have to look at what's in the department's own assessment, and what's the intention of choosing to regulate it the same way as a continuous pension. Regulationing the minimum level in the same way as current retirement pension will contribute to simplifying and facilitating conditionality for previous withdrawals. Regulation with average wage and price increases in the long term could lead to a lower level of development of minimum levels than the current system. That's why we don't want to support it. That is why we want to do exactly what our proposal says. When you choose to link this up like this, a decent level of retirement to live up to the line of work and retirement for those who have been in work – if it is to be the direction for what we do in this room – I believe as a navigator that this house is completely out of course. It may not be an objective that this should be the bearer of the standard of living of Norwegian minimum pensioners. Then we have to solve the other problems separately. When we come to the vote on this matter, I hope that we focus on what's decent, and that's raising the minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1129	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1146	The case concerns the consent of the EEA Committee to the approval of Decision No. 165/2019 of 14 June 2019 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive [[EU]] It replaces the first payment service Directive, Directive 2007/64/EC and builds on it. The new Directive, namely the PSD2, aims to create and facilitate a coherent legal framework for payment services in the EEA area. The PSD2 is a full harmonisation Directive and therefore the space for action of national authorities is limited. The aim of the Directive is to modernise legislation in line with market developments, to open up innovation and to increase competition, to facilitate lower prices and to promote safer solutions. Furthermore, the Directive deals with new payment services and new payment service providers to provide payment services, so-called third-party actors. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence had no comments and expressed its support for the Directive and the suspension of the Committee on Justice. There is a unanimous judicial committee behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1159	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice. 7 and 8 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1190	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1199	First, I would like to thank the members of the Justice Committee for their good cooperation in these two matters. Today we are discussing two propositions relating to the further development of the Schengen acquis. Proposition 231 S applies to three regulations establishing an entry and exit system, changes concerning the use of the entry and exit system and the establishment of the exit system. Norway shall decide on its own initiative whether to accept and incorporate its content into Norwegian law. So that's what we're dealing with now, and that's necessary according to the second paragraph of the Constitution, Section 26, because it's a matter of particular importance. There is a joint committee that submits the nomination regarding the proposal 231 S. For the implementation of the legal acts, it requires changes to the laws of the border laws, the law on foreigners and the law on police records. These are dealt with in proposition 229 L. There is a comprehensive recommendation here, with the exception of new Section 16(a) of the Border Law, which is supported by the Labour Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Progress Party. The Regulations provide for the establishment of a system for the electronic registration of the time and place of entry and exit across the external borders of Schengen cooperation for third-country nationals in the short term stay of the Schengen territory, Entry/Exit System, shorten the EEA. Registration and verification in the EEA replaces current practice with manual stamping in travel documents. The system is streamlined and improves the quality of the border control process. Furthermore, a system is in place whereby Member States may assess and decide whether visa-free third-country nationals wishing to travel to the Schengen area are at risk by issuing or refusing access to the Schengen external border. At the outer limit, border checks shall be carried out as normal before entry. The central and most comprehensive part of the EEA Entry and Exit System is developed and funded through the EU Internal Security Fund. However, costs will have to be borne by the Member States. This includes, inter alia: adaptation and operation of national systems, the acquisition of equipment in border control and manning. A European Travel Information and Authorisation System (ETIAS) is also being developed. Much will be built on the technical solutions developed for the EEA. The Committee points out that Norway, as a participant in Schengen cooperation, has completed internal border controls against the other Member States. Internal freedom of movement imposes strong requirements on Member States to carry out checks on the crossing of the common external borders. It is therefore in Norway's interest that this control should be strengthened and applied unilaterally in line with agreed standards. The Committee considers that action is being taken to prevent unauthorised access by third parties to multi-identities. The Committee takes the view that the entry and exit system will improve the quality of the border control process and that is a central tool for strengthening the internal security of the Schengen territory to combat illegal migration. Recording, storage and control on entry and exit of information on third-country nationals, their biometric identification and travel documents restrict the possibility of using different identities in border controls and in the Schengen territory. When it comes to Proposition 229 L, the Committee points out the importance of Norwegian authorities in a good way enabling us to fight terrorism and other serious crime through law and regulation. In the proposition, it will be, among other things: proposed a new Section 16(a) of the Borders Act, which establishes a national solution for the collection and use of PNR information, i.e. passenger list information, and to facilitate Norway to participate in EU PNR cooperation. The members of the Committee from the SV and the Left do not support new Section 16a of the Border Law, which thus implies the prior notification of passengers. The majority of the Committee, members of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, believe that the proposed legislative changes are important measures in the face of organised crime and international terrorism, and that the legislative changes could have a decisive impact on research and evidence on cross-border crime. The majority believe that the intention of the prevention work to combat terrorism must weigh heavily in the Storting's assessment of the new legislation, and with reference to the limited access and restrictive use of data described by the Ministry, the majority support the proposals in the proposition. Summaries: as I said, it is a joint committee which recommends a decision in accordance with Proposition 231 S. It is also submitted to the Foreign and Defence Committee, which joins it and has no comments. In the case of proposition 229 L, the recommendation is made by a joint committee, with the exception of the frontier law new § 16a, which is supported by the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1229	As a member of Schengen, Norway has participated in the development of a new legislation, which has also been largely explained by Hovland. It involves the registration of third-country nationals and their entry and exit into the Schengen area, so the acquis was adopted at EU level in 2018 and will now be implemented in each Schengen country. Prop. 231 S for 2020-2021 simply refers to the approval of the regulation by the Storting, while Prop. 229 L for 2020-2021 deals with the Norwegian legislative changes required to bring national law into line with our international obligations. Through the regulation proposed to be accepted in Prop. 231 S and the accompanying national laws in Prop. 229 L, a system for the electronic recording of the time and place of entry and exit across the external borders of Schengen cooperation shall be established for third-country nationals in the short-term stay of the Schengen territory. With the Entry/Exit System, the EEA, also follows a forward system, ETIAS, and the system will also record alphanumeric data and biometric characteristics, i.e. facial images and fingerprints for travellers. The data will be checked at later arrivals and departures. For Prop. 231 S is important to say that, as regards measures to strengthen the internal security of the Schengen area, both the entry and exit system and the entry system are at the heart of the Schengen cooperation. The entry and exit system will improve the quality of border control processes, and it is a key instrument for strengthening the internal security of the Schengen territory and combating illegal migration. In the case of Prop. 229 L, which proposes the legislative changes needed to implement the regulations as Prop. It is important to state that the importance of the ability of Norwegian authorities to combat terrorism and other serious crime through law and regulation in a good way must be given strong emphasis. A new section 16 of the Borders Act, which establishes a national solution for the collection and use of PNR data, is proposed, as also referred to, and facilitates Norway’s participation in EU PNR cooperation. The amendments to the Police Register Act are intended to ensure that information contained in specific registers is fully covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. Thus, it concerns the collection of PNR and passenger list information from all flights to Norway and the subsequent retention of this information for five years. PNR information includes, inter alia: information on the traveler’s name, address, telephone number, e-mail, route, names of persons travelling together, history of orders and payment information. Of course, it is a topic that is important to discuss and focus on, in the light of us as citizens of a country where privacy is strong. As regards the proposed changes and the establishment of a national solution for the collection and use of PNR data and the organisation of Norway’s participation in EU PNR cooperation, it is important to point out that the proposed changes will be important in the meeting of organised crime and international terrorism. The legislative changes could have a crucial role to play in investigating and providing evidence on cross-border crime, as underlined in the consultations of the police and the PST. At the same time, it is, of course, important to be concerned with privacy of individuals and to stress the importance that all the collection of information from individuals must be proportionate. In this context, it may be natural to refer to the Ministry's statement on page 17 of the proposal: ‘However, in the proportionality assessment, it is also of central importance that further use of the information is reserved to matters relating to acts of terrorism and serious crime and that the processing will be strictly limited by the security mechanisms that will be provided in the Police Registry Regulation, including rules on access, professional secrecy, disclosure, information obligation, transparency, correction, deletion and masking. The Ministry refers to the proposed, inter alia, in the consultation note, that only the officials of the PNR unit should have access to the information contained in the register and that all information should be subject to professional secrecy.’;» It is important to stress that, for the Central Party, this type of information collection and use of information must be justified for strong societal reasons, which we believe is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1253	Monitoring our own citizens and storing information is not something we should take lightly. A strong level of privacy is a value we need to fence around, and privacy should be strengthened, not weakened. Although the PNR Directive is now implemented in the EU, it is not clear what it contains, and there are several legal processes in place where, among other things, the EU Court of Justice. have been asked to decide whether the Directive is incompatible with Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It is a weakness that the proposal is put forward before it is clear whether the PNR Directive violates fundamental human rights. In its consultation response, the Data Protection Board of 22 January 2021 sent a letter to the European Commission concluding that a general and undifferentiated collection of data on air passengers is not in line with EU law, inter alia. because the amount of data collected is not proportional to the useful value. A report from the Commission suggests that data were collected from about 1 billion passengers per year. At the same time, there were only 13 cases where it had given concrete results. According to the SSB, Norwegian citizens made more than 6 million trips abroad in 2019. This will include a significant and significant proportion of the Norwegian population. A general and undifferentiated collection of flight passenger information of all Norwegian citizens by five years of storage cannot be justified without a well-documented need and adequate legal certainty mechanisms. In particular, this is the need for a five-year storage period which is not justified by the legislative proposal. General data protection principles of necessity and minimisation indicate that the storage obligation also, in terms of time scale, does not go beyond what is strictly necessary for the purpose. Norway's human rights institution is not convinced that the proposal meets the requirement for effective remedy. The background is that the proposal will allow the collection of information on all travellers regardless of their degree of suspicion. Further search or extradition increases this intervention, and in the absence of a more pointed reason why the opposite is necessary, NIM’s view is that the system should be set up in such a way that notification is given after treatment. NIM has also expressed concerns about the effectiveness of the monitoring capability of the Data Protection Authority, in particular when the information acquisition reaches the level of this proposal. It is important to look at this proposal in the context of adopted legislative proposals involving monitoring Norwegian citizens, such as the provision of new intelligence laws, the collection of IP addresses by the Econom Act, and the proposal that is now being consulted to ensure that PST is provided with information from open sources for 15 years. All these proposals are increasingly opening up to hidden surveillance without prior checking. This sliding effect of ever more monitoring and a weaker privacy is a development we in SV do not support. We will therefore vote against new Section 16(a) of the Borders Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1268	A strong protection of individual privacy is essential for freedom and for democracy. Freedom requires protection against improper registration, monitoring and interference in private life. These are rights which are also protected by the European Convention on Human Rights, the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Constitution. The development of new digital solutions increases the pressure on privacy. It is therefore necessary to impose strict requirements on the storage, use and dissemination of information obtained by electronic means, independently of the operator. Both the Data Protection Authority and the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights are critical of the proposal for a new Section 16(a) of the Borders Act, which we are going to vote on today. The proposal will allow the right to store data for five years with the possibility of doing a large-scale data search, irrespective of prior checking. That is, each of us can be the subject of police investigations just because we have been travelling abroad, and that this information about us can be stored for five years. Last year, EMD came with the Big Brother Watch rulings against the United Kingdom and the Centre for Justice against Sweden, where the theme was the bulk collection of cross-border electronic data by the authorities. In both judgments, the EMD found that there was an infringement of the EMK species. 8 on the right to privacy. The judgments are also relevant in this case, even if they deal with bulk collection of communications primarily for intelligence purposes. The judgments have several general evaluations, taking into account comprehensive data collection, storage and future data searches, as this proposal suggests. In view of this, the relationship between the proposal and the European Convention on Human Rights should be further investigated. In addition, there are legal proceedings under way in which the European Court of Justice is to consider whether the PNR Directive is compatible with the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. 7 and 8, to which the representative of Unneland also referred. It is problematic that this proposal is contested before these legal clarifications relating to human rights have been made. In its guidelines, the European Data Protection Council stated that the general and undifferentiated collection of information on aerodrome passengers is not in line with EU law, inter alia. because the amount of data is not proportional to the value added, i.e. the amount of data collected about us, up to the results related to the detection and prosecution of crime. For the PNR system to comply with the EMK species. 8, legislation and the system must contain adequate safeguards and legal frameworks. This does not adequately address this proposal, which also poses problems for Norway’s human rights institution and the Data Protection Authority in their consultation responses. The police need to know whether persons coming to the country are suspected or related to international terrorism or other serious crime is understandable, but we are bound by the privacy principles relating to data minimisation and necessity, as well as the rules of human rights relating to proportionality. Therefore, the Left will vote against the proposal for new Section 16(a) of the Borders Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1283	I am pleased that the Stortinget today deals with the legislative proposal on the changes to the Borders Act and the Foreign Affairs Act in order to implement the EU regulations on the establishment of an Entry and Exit System and an Entry System. The Entry and Exit System will record third country travellers whenever they cross the external border and thereby counteract irregular migration and contribute to security within Schengen. The system will also contribute to the modernisation and efficiency of external border controls, including: by replacing today’s practice of hand stamping travel documents with the new system. The progress system, the ETIAS, shall also prevent illegal migration and contribute to the security of Schengen by allowing travellers from visa-free third countries to undergo an electronic prior check before they arrive at the Schengen territory. This will also contribute to better and more effective external border control. I am also pleased that Stortinget deals with the new Section 16(a) of the Border Act, which establishes a new national solution for the collection and use of PNR data. It will also facilitate a later accession agreement with the EU, if the Storting agrees. PNR information could play a crucial role at several stages in the investigation and detection of terrorist acts and serious crime, and it would be a useful tool for the agencies responsible for combating terrorism and serious crime. The measure therefore also meets the requirement of necessity arising from the nature of the EMK. Eight. The need for intervention also suggests that the measure is proportionate. However, in the proportionality assessment, it is also of central importance that further use of the data is reserved to cases of terrorist acts or/and serious crime. As a result, the potential use of PNR data is considerably more limited than for information stored in other police systems. The government will contribute to enhanced judicial cooperation in Europe in order to better combat digital and other cross-border crime. The entry and exit system, forwarding system and access to PNR information will improve the ability of police — with more — to combat cross-border crime. The Borders Act was adopted by Stortinget in 2018. The work of the associated regulatory body has made it apparent the need to make some changes to both the border law and the Foreign Affairs Act. Treatment in Stortinget today means that the border law can be brought into force within a short period of time. The government aims to do this already on 1 May of this year. The Storting also examines the proposal for amendment to the Police Register Act § 69, first paragraph, No. 11, that information contained in some registers as a whole may be subject to professional secrecy. Such rules will increase the predictability of the data subject and will facilitate the application of the legislation to police officials. This applies for the first time to information in the new PNR registry, but also to other registers, such as: the informant register and the criminal record.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1300	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1317	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1324	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on an important topic that concerns the trust of the police. In this case, we are dealing with a proposal for a representative on the establishment of a mandatory receipt system that ensures that a receipt is distributed to persons who are subject to personal checks under the authority of the police and customs authorities. The Committee takes note of the public debate on ethnic profiling and the many experience as a random stoppage by the police. The Committee also refers to the 2022 budgetary unit, where a pilot is to be carried out under the certification scheme in Oslo. It is a unanimous committee that insists that the draft representative is not adopted. A majority of the Committee first wants to follow the pilot scheme in Oslo. Now I would like to explain to the Workers' Party and the Centre's views on the matter. It's a common goal for all of us that the police have a high level of trust in society. And let me stress it: in Norway, the police enjoy on average high trust. But there are differences, and some groups don't feel as strongly about that trust. We as the Norwegian National Assembly must take this seriously. Let me begin by commending the Greens for this representative proposal. Both the Green Party, SV and the Oslo Workers' Party have initiated a pilot scheme in the capital, which is now being rolled out in 2022 through their Urban Council platform. Many in our society have expressed that they experience being randomly stopped a little too often. There is therefore a need for more knowledge of the scope of such practices, both for the police, for those who are constantly experiencing a stoppage, and for developing good policies to counter this. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, OMOD, the Organisation against Public Discrimination, and several civil society organisations have long sought a system of acknowledgement. The debate on such a system of receipts has actually taken place for 30 years. The fact that a majority in this room recognizes ethnic profiling as a problem is an important start. It opens up too many possibilities, because a validation scheme is not the only solution, but perhaps one of several solutions. Research on how it is to be stopped and controlled shows that there is a rough line between checking and the fact that the police stop someone to talk. How can the police get better at giving an explanation, so those who are stopped experience fair treatment? The Oslo police have established the ‘Justified Police’ educational system to train skills, competences and professional ethics that promote transparency and reduce arbitrary controls. This educational system is now shared with the rest of the country. Another element of this debate is the Bodycam body camera. Many have suggested that this should replace a possible receipt scheme. I'm not sure if Bodycam solves the challenges that we see that a receipt system might be able to do. But regardless of that, it's right to consider Bodycam as part of the police uniform for the selection to look at the police power use. A third important measure is to increase the diversity of police. Representativeity also means something here. Lack of background and diversity skills are also essential to strengthen trust in the police. Last but not least, we need enough police. The vast majority of the police people I'm talking to want time – plenty of time – to do their job. They must have the time they need to control, with the respect that control deserves. This morning the Prime Minister was handed over a UNICEF report. In that report, seven out of ten young people believe that those who decide in the country are not doing enough to stop racism — seven out of ten. Being stopped by the police is not necessarily racism, but only the fact that many of our young people experience it this way, should be reason enough to engage us and take this seriously. We all want the police to have high trust in society. It requires several different measures, perhaps also a receipt scheme. That's why the Workers' Party and the Center Party want to support the pilot in Oslo and gain experience from it before we discuss the way forward, and I'm sure more people in the hall are on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1352	I have a great deal of understanding that some personal checks can be perceived as burdensome to those who are exposed to them. To feel that one is being suspected is very unpleasant. At the same time, in many cases personal checks are necessary in order for the police to carry out their social tasks properly. Although individual cases of discrimination and racism may occur, there are no points of reference to say that Norwegian police are influenced by structural or institutional racism, or that Norwegian police are operating with widespread systematic discrimination or ethnic profiling. Norway has one of the world's most educated police, and I trust that they carry out their social mission in line with the law and in a conscientious manner. This also shows measurements of people's confidence in the police. The 2021 survey shows that high levels of confidence in Norway are constantly being enjoyed by the police. Overall, specify 80 pst. the fact that they have a very large or quite high level of trust in the police, and the figures have been stable over several years. Trust is highest in the Oslo, South-East and Inland districts. More than two out of three state that they have a very good or quite good impression of the police when it comes to treating people with respect regardless of who they are. The same applies to the perception that the police are making fair, impartial decisions on matters that are being dealt with. In Oslo, the figure is higher than the national average. People's high trust in the police and the authorities is not something we can take for granted. We see from the same survey that the proportion of people who report that they believe the police treat people with respect regardless of who they are is marked lower among young people under 25. It is worrying and a signal we must take seriously. The Police Directorate has announced that they have already started work to strengthen confidence in the police, where a pilot scheme with better safeguards for personal controls in Oslo is one of the measures. Our view is that it makes sense to await the evaluation of the pilot scheme before possibly expanding to introduce a mandatory scheme in all police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1369	As has been well explained by the rapporteur, trust in the police is important. Fortunately, we live in a country that has great confidence in the police. However, it is important to take seriously that there may be both people and situations where trust is challenged. It is then important to have a broad perspective on how to approach ensuring and maintaining good trust in the police in the future, among all parts of the population. The pilot scheme will probably look forward to with some tension in terms of its practical functioning, but also whether it will have the desired effect. Then it would be a little unfortunate to conclude before the pilot scheme has worked in Oslo. But when that's said, I think we're going to take seriously that groups in society, related to experiences with the police and also others, feel that in many ways the authority might not be the good authority that we initially assume and we all assume, that trust is there, and that that's right and right what happens. It is important to keep focus, and I think that the discussions in the matter reflect in a good way. But it is important that such a system of receipts be tested, and that we see both how it works in practice and whether it meets its purpose. – By that I say thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1376	Today, we are dealing with a proposal from the far left that is based on an understanding that may be seen elsewhere in the world – or that is a discussion elsewhere in the world, also represented on the left, especially in the United States. We live in a world where the media float together. People are reading online, people are being informed about debates that are taking place on the other side of the earth, and you've come up with an impression of it. That is perhaps what – at least it seems – is the premise of the debate we have today: the assumption of a racist police force. Because if you're going to use this type of tool, it's because you're assuming it's a problem, and the police in Norway are racist. It's an uncritical Americanization, where a debate is based on completely different premises, under completely different conditions, in a country that is completely different in terms of these very things. This is indirectly an insinuation, it's a suspicion of the Norwegian police, and I think it's sad that we're going to stand here and discuss it in the Stortinget. Is that what we know, is that we have a capable police force that treats people the same, that enjoys great respect, and that does not deserve to be pulled down as I see it doing with this debate. I think it's sad that we're even discussing it. But that's the debate on the left, and of course they have to be allowed to do it. What is far worse is that this case is rejected not because it is a bad proposal – because it is – but because the government intends to do the same. The government actually intends to do the same thing. Listening to the Center Party – which was up here at the previous speeches before me – almost suspiciously suspect Norwegian police, it's one day I didn't think it would come. Because that was what I experienced that the previous speaker did, and that is the basis for the matter we are dealing with here today: an assumption that Norwegian police are racist. So Ali at 18 is likely to be stopped on the street more often than Olga at 75. It's not about skin color, it's not about racism. It's like moving in an environment, in a geography, is at an age where the challenges and crime are much more represented. It's about the police being allowed to do their job. But I can see that indirectly, given that you have an assumption that Ali is stopped more often than Astrid or Olga, it's racist. No, it is not, it has enough to do with people who are in these areas and belong to the same groups being extremely overrepresented – if we are to be honest – in Norwegian crime statistics. This means that when you move in those areas, you may be exposed to being stopped by the police. It's about the police doing their job, but what you're doing here is making it harder for the police to do their job. For what happens when Ali has been stopped three times and that's well justified? Then the police won't dry to stop Ali again. Why? Yes, because then the police are racist – then they come the accusations. So if you think anything other than that this is going to inhibit the police in doing their important job, you're very wrong. This is an enormous experiment, a gigantic experiment that the government intends to undertake, which no other country has done in a similar way, but which is driven by an ideological left-hand side that does not relate to facts, but to discussions and debates that take place on the other side of the Atlantic. We have more important issues to deal with in this Chamber than this proposal, which fortunately is being rejected today, but which unfortunately the government is going to propose itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1395	The certification scheme is about building trust through transparency. In contrast to the previous speaker from the Progress Party claimed, ethnic profiling takes place in Norway. It's happened, and it happens. These are not SV's words, but words from the then Prime Minister of Right, Erna Solberg. When you manage the state monopoly of power, you depend on the confidence of the population. Too many people with different skin colours than me, it is unfortunately too common to be stopped at random by the police. Abdi, a young man who interviewed the newspaper in the past, told me about the search that happened when he was 15 years old – the first of several searches he was going to experience. Mubarak Omer has been stopped more than ten times by the police for no reason since he was 14. 22-year-old Moin informed a few years ago of TV 2 that he had been stopped more than 30 times by the police in recent years. Lawyer Awon Amidu of Trondheim last year was in favour of discrimination in that the police had stopped him much more often than the people else, and this on the basis of his skin color. Many feel suspicious when they feel that they are being stopped by the police on the basis of what they look like. There is little reason to assume that most police officers are active in ethnic profiling, but there is reason to assume, based on people's experiences, that there are disproportionately many controls on people with a minority background. The emergence of unconscious patterns in practice is not new, and a receipt mechanism will be an important part of getting more knowledge of the scale. A receipt scheme is that if you are stopped, you should receive a receipt as proof of control. The point of the scheme is to increase the control threshold slightly as a receipt has to be issued and knowledge of the scope will be gathered. You are thus forced to stop and think before carrying out a check. In this way, hopefully, the scope of unnecessary controls will be reduced and a better knowledge base will be provided to provide an informed debate on police practices. Research shows that stopping suspicion is based on characteristics that play on stereotypical perceptions of who and what is suspicious, and here appearance and behaviour have an important role to play. It was important for the SV in the negotiations with the Labour Party-Center Party government to ensure that policies strengthen minority confidence in the police. In the first instance, a test project with a certification scheme is started to gain experience. There is a system called for by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, which SV has proposed on the Stortinget several times. Now, when we're going to start testing a validation scheme, we're going to be in company with other countries like, for example, England, Scotland, Romania, Poland and Slovakia. When the Progress Party claims that we are now running an experiment no one else has done before, it is actually wrong. Reprobability of personal checks is necessary in order to strengthen confidence in the police. A high-reliance cop is a cop who can do his job better. But to create confidence, transparency, a self-critical police force is needed to recognise that structures can arise in their practices that affect some groups harder than others, and that they are open to taking action to prevent it. I am proud that SV has ensured that we will start the pilot project with a receipt scheme, but for SV it is only the start of introducing the scheme in Norway. We in SV are clear that our goal is a national system. Therefore, SV wants to support MDG’s proposals, which they are promoting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1412	This is in many ways a question of trust in the police and how it can be strengthened. It is absolutely essential that we have a well-functioning police force. Unfortunately, it's not always like that. Research shows that some groups do not trust the police to assist them if they need it. Young people with a minority background experience being stopped by the police more often than others and suspected, without any reason. Anti-racist Centers published in 2017 a report that reveals that over 12 p.m. of those born with one or two foreign parents, the police regularly stopped them. You can imagine a 18-year-old boy, maybe black or brown, who has experienced being stopped regularly by the police several times a year throughout his youth, without having done anything wrong. These guys are my friends, they're my neighbors, they're our kids. We in this room are also elected to them. It's not that it's because someone moves in certain areas, sometimes you're just on your way home. The UN Human Rights Council also concluded in 2018 that Norwegian police are actually engaged in ethnic profiling. Racism and ethnic profiling are not just reprehensible and something that does not belong in society – it certainly does not belong in the police. It weakens the trust that the police depend on from the population. Officially, the purpose of personal control is to combat crime, but we know that it also appears that it is being misused for social control of sections of the population, especially weak groups in society. It can also be homeless and addicted. The question of the receipt system is that young people and addicts are profiled. This is also about trust. The police, like us in this room, manage the confidence of the people. They may not have been chosen by the people, but they will nevertheless protect the people and manage the trust we put in their hands. When part of the population's confidence in the police weakens, we have a huge problem. A personal check-in mechanism will provide a channel for those who experience being stopped and checked for no reason, in order to require justification. It will provide those who are checked with the opportunity to document the frequency of the checks. It will also provide the police with a tool to assess monitoring of the results. We believe that this is a good information base for the police. Minority youth experience being stopped in police checks more frequently than other young people who do not have a minority background. It means a suspicion for no reason. It can create extraterrestrials, wear and enormous frustration. Our citizens, our young people, need to have a tool that actively counters and prevents ethnic profiling. We know that it happens, and we have to do something to counteract it. It's time to set up for those who, after repeated times of control, are left with a sense of abstinence and despair. They ask, "Why me?" This is not much to ask for. Oslo has decided to launch a test project with a receipt scheme and that is incredibly good. Such a testing scheme will provide important experience which may be passed on to a national certification scheme. It should be a national system, and it should be part of the social contract we all have to be covered by. Finally, I wish that was not necessary. I wish these kids didn't have these experiences, but they do. No matter what some politician might say, they are the experiences of our society. No matter what anyone else would say, this happens. We can set up those young people, because they need them, and Red is going to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1435	The Left will express its full support for the Green Party's proposal to roll out a reception system at national level. The police depend entirely on confidence in the population to do their job in a good way. As a result, illegal ethnic profiling has weakened confidence in the police, especially in the minority population. The police have great confidence in Norway, especially in comparison with other countries. But trust can always be increased, and things can always get better. There is little doubt that such ethnic profiling is taking place in Norway today. This is not a question of uncritical Americanization, which the representative of the Progress Party advocates. The European Commission on Racism and Intolerance made a recommendation in 2008 that Norway should take a closer look at ethnic profiling, in particular related to ‘stop and check’ by police and customs staff. In a report from 2018, the UN Human Rights Council expressed concern that the police in Norway are engaged in ethnic profiling. The Council recommended reviewing the Foreign Affairs Act in order to ensure that there is no discrimination based on appearance, skin colour or ethnic origin. As recently as April 2021, the Discrimination Study took decisions in which they concluded that a person had been subjected to illegal discrimination against the police because of ethnicity. The man experienced that he was remarkably often stopped and controlled by the police when he was driving a car. In the period from 2015 to 2020 he was stopped ten times. In 2019 he notified Trøndelag police districts and the relevant officials to the Special Unit. It was there, but in 2020, when he filed a complaint with the Discrimination Study, he heard. The Nende concluded that the man had been illegally discriminated against by the police because of his ethnicity and showed in his decision that he had been stopped much more frequently than the population otherwise, and that the reason for this was his ethnicity. This case from the Discrimination Study illustrates the need for and importance of a receipt scheme and its roll-out on a national basis. A system of receipts is an effective tool to overcome ethnic profile in the police. Firstly, such a system could have a preventive effect. This will lead to increased awareness of ethnic profiling of police personnel in the performance of their job. The system will thus be able to prevent unnecessary and illegal controls. Secondly, a receipt system would mean that the police would log when they stopped people on the street, and all these statistics would be publicly available. That is how we will be able to identify the extent of the problem of illegal discrimination caused by ethnicity. Thirdly, a receipt mechanism will mean that those who are stopped will receive a receipt stating why they are stopped, and it will make it easier for the persons to assess whether or not to file a complaint. The cancellation mechanism is also an effective tool to increase confidence in the police of the population, especially for minorities. In a liberal democracy, everyone should be able to be himself and live the life they themselves want, and it is the duty of the majority to ensure that minorities are properly cared for and developed. When the acceptance scheme does not now appear to be being rolled out at national level, it is all the more important to ensure that the test project in Oslo is used to gain experience that can be used to further develop and improve the recognition scheme in view of a subsequent roll-out on a national basis. Efforts must always be made to promote increased trust in the police. The left therefore warns that we are going to vote for the Environment Party's loose proposals, in line with our comments on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1452	‘No justice, no peace,’ cried thousands of people in Eidsvoll’s place and went down on their knees to remember victims of police abuse worldwide. It's now two years since George Floyd was killed in the United States, and it triggered an international anti-racist protest, led by people fighting for fundamental justice and against racism and discrimination. This event was in the United States, not Norway. There are major differences, but the incident and the wave that followed drew attention to the fact that in Norway too, there are examples of bias and imbalances in how people are checked out by the police and the danger it creates for tensions in society and injustice to individuals. That is why many of us promised to take the anti-racist struggle further into the Storting to remove structures that create discrimination against people in Norway, and that is what the Greens have done today. We are therefore proposing to introduce a mandatory system to ensure that receipts are always distributed to persons who are subject to personal checks by the police and customs authorities. This is not a mistrust proposal against the police. That's the opposite. It is a proposal to ensure that there is a suspicion of bias towards some groups in police controls, for there is a suspicion that this is happening. There is evidence that people with a different skin color, melanin-rich people – or what concept you want to use – are being followed up by the police more often than others. Because the police need trust to do their job, and people have to be treated fairly and perceived fairly in order to have confidence in the police. A receipt system will take care of that. It will ensure that those who experience personal checks as discriminatory or innocuous are documented where and when they have been checked. This will also provide evidence of whether police controls are biased or not. It will strengthen the legal certainty of people, it will prevent discrimination, and it will strengthen the police's own structure of relations and legitimacy in all groups, which are a very important objective of this proposal. The European Commission on Racism and Intolerance has recommended Norway to investigate ethnic profile of personal controls carried out by police and customs authorities. The UN Human Rights Council has expressed concern that the Norwegian police are running ethnic profiling in some cases. And to those who may be in doubt: the subject of discrimination concluded last year – a case that has been mentioned by several – that a person had been exposed to ethnic profiling by the police. The Greens' proposals are supported by the Organisation against Public Discrimination, by Agenda X, by Norwegian People's Aid Solidarity Youth, by the African Students' Association, by the Discrimination Aid and the Mediation Bench, by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and by Amnesty Norway, and I am grateful for the good support and contributions from several other parties here in the Chamber. We are pleased that the bulk of the budget for this year adopted a testing scheme for this in Oslo, but we still believe that logging police controls should be easy and sensible to implement across the country, and I am therefore addressing the Greens' proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1469	Then the representative Rasmus Hansson mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1475	An overall committee proposes to reject the proposal to ask the government to put in place a mandatory system of receipts. I'm glad. In my assessment of the proposal, I concluded that it would be unfortunate and not appropriate for the Storting to decide that a system of receipts must be put in place before the pilot project, which will be implemented in Oslo Police District this year, has been implemented and evaluated. The majority of the Committee has also shown that experience in practice will be useful in the context of a subsequent roll-out on a national basis, which I feel is what the proposers want now. Police must pay attention to the practice of personal controls and how they are perceived by the citizens. The pilot shall implement a technical solution for the offer and issue of a confirmation of the conduct of a personal check. The implementation of the project is anchored in the Letter of Allocation to the Police Directorate for 2022, which states that the action will be seen in conjunction with other measures for increased confidence in the police and police personnel controls. Oslo Municipality, organisations and other relevant actors shall be involved in the work, and it is also clear from the letter of award that the project is to be evaluated, which is important to identify the desired impact of such a scheme or its unintended consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1487	In the field of justice, as in most other fields, when action is taken — and then rather radical — as we are talking about here — they are usually based on knowledge, on research, on documented needs. In this debate, we have heard nothing but individual representatives who come with anecdotes in some variant – you think you know someone who has experienced that – or you refer to a UN committee that has some opinions on the matter. It seems to be the whole basis for us having that debate today, and for the government's work, a work to come with – I kept saying – the corresponding arrangement for Oslo. Is it not a problem for the Minister of Justice to solve a problem that is not documented – and if so, will the Council of State say that this is a real problem that affects the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1492	There is a need for more knowledge of the extent of this practice to which some people experience exposure. That is why it is very nice that we are now starting a pilot project that will give us useful knowledge of this, and that will give us useful experience that will allow us to decide whether this is something to go further later on for a larger part of the country than the Oslo Police District, to which the trial project is confined.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1497	The word ‘trust’ has been used by several people in the debate today, but trust is not just the trust of the criminals in the police – to put it that way. Most people trust the police, we trust that the police have the opportunity and the tools to do a good job, to ensure the security and security of people's everyday lives. SV indicated that the check threshold should be raised. This means that they want fewer controls and fewer potential criminals to be stopped. Then my concern and my question to the Minister is whether she can guarantee that any introduction of a receipt mechanism will not help potential criminals to escape control, that they will then be free to continue their criminal activity, since the police simply will not be allowed to stop them – if the left-hand side wins with their policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1502	I can't see that issuing a receipt when someone has been stopped in a personal check has anything to do with whether criminals can continue their business or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1507	So the Council of State doesn't realize that someone who might have been stopped, for example. seven o'clock in the evening, later, for example. At nine o'clock, may have, for example, Armed or provided drugs and some activity during the hours when he is clearly at peace, and is still at peace beyond the evening, because he has been stopped once before?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1512	I trust the police will solve this in a good way. They have a lot of knowledge both of meeting the population in a pleasant way, of the framework of the police law, within which their controls lie, and of how to deal with criminals. This is a system that I think it is important that we get knowledge of. We have to figure out how to do it in practice. We have to draw lessons from this, and I think that's positive in many ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1517	Thanks to the Minister for the good answers to the questions from the Progress Party. First of all, I would like to say that we in SV are proud and pleased with the impact we have had, together with the government, that we are going to launch a pilot project. What I want to hear from the Minister is how this work is going on, how to ensure sufficient involvement in this work, how the Directorate of Police is involved in this work. We're recording that it's started in Oslo, it's started a job there, but I'd like to hear more about how the minister wants to follow up this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1524	I look forward to a pilot project, and it is clear from the letter of assignment given to the Directorate of Police that this will start quickly. Then the police have to work on it, and then we have to draw experience on it to figure out what's going to be the right way forward, essentially.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1529	Fortunately, the launch of a pilot project by the government in Oslo confirms that the government sees the possibility of this being a useful and legitimate measure, and does not see it as a distrust statement to the police, as indicated by the representative Amundsen and others. The fact that this is something that is now going on in Oslo is good, but experience is needed from many situations. Will the government consider extending the pilot project to make experience more representative for the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1535	At present, it is right that the pilot project being launched should work, and we do not have any plans to extend the pilot project now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1540	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1547	First of all, I have to say that I am very strongly responding to the suggestion that the Greens really came along, when they referred to the brutal incident in the United States, the completely absurd and unreal incident in which George Floyd was killed by the police. So correct Rasmus Hansson moderates himself by saying that there are big differences. I would say that there is absolutely no basis for comparison at all. I hope I misunderstand the representative Hansson, but I perceived his contribution as a partial comparison by the fact that there were obviously structural racist problems also in Norway, and I take a very strong distance from that. I would say it is quite shocking to include such an example in this debate on Norwegian police – on how Norwegian police handle Norwegian citizens. The matter of the receipt order is very special. It may seem like the premise to introduce such a system, as we heard from several of the representatives on the left-hand side today, is an idea that Norwegian police are racist. They're not. That's how we in the Progress Party take a strong distance from. A so-called ‘receipt’ scheme is not common in other countries. While there are some countries that may consider some form of receipt scheme, there is certainly not a common international approach, and neither police nor people in Norway are the most demanding. Last night I was at the Gardermoen and accepted refugees from Ukraine. There was also a lot of police. Then I took up the receipt system with the police to hear a little about what they were thinking, and what they are saying, to get some fresh news. From this point of view, there were really smoking fresh polls from the police out there – the police working to secure everyday life, at least for us law-abiding citizens. They were clearly clear against a receipt scheme. Nor did they understand how it would work in a hectic everyday life. When I hear more representatives say that you should start with a reporting system and registration, it sounds like you're going to red tape the Norwegian police so that they have to spend more time running and registering who they've talked to and why they've done it, than just to enforce their job and provide security to most people out there. Whether or not to provide a receipt until they have just stopped and checked, e.g. for drugs and weapons, the person who has received a receipt can both arm themselves and obtain drugs immediately after the police have examined that person and given a receipt. If the police then meet the same person again later in the evening or the night, he will then be able not to be controlled, and he may continue to operate his criminal activity undisturbed. That is what we fear, and that is what we regard as a realistic consequence of such a completely meaningless proposal. This is just getting too stupid. It's a shocking naive suggestion. In this way, I am at least a little calm, given that we have responsible parties like the Labour Party and the Centre Party, which at least have so far set their feet down for such a completely meaningless naive proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1560	Sometimes you actually have to take care that you have a need to try to listen after one more time when it comes to what is being said. To be quite honest, I definitely believe that both the undersigned, the Central Party and the Workers' Party have a rather balanced approach to this matter. That individual representatives from the Progress Party are trying to present it as describing the Norwegian police as racist is at best an alternative description of reality I had hoped they would stick too well to. To this, the theme is too serious and too important. I was quite clear that this is what we have in Norway – and we should be happy that we have it – is a great deal of trust in the police, but we cannot be blind because there are people and groups in society who experience situations we should take seriously. It's supposed to be characterised as accusing someone of being racist, it's really simply a matter of its own unfairness, but of course it serves a narrative – as it's called fine – that someone wants to draw. Norwegian police need resources, time and capacity. At least this government is ready. This has not always been the case with former Ministers of Justice of the Progress Party. Having said that, I think we should actually balance this discussion with what it is actually about, namely a set of instruments that ensure that we maintain the trust that the police have, and that the maximum possible proportion of the population – yes, in fact every single one of this society – feel that trust is present and that you are being treated properly. It will not be that once you have received a receipt, it is a blank permission to do what you want to do afterwards. It definitely falls on its own unreasonableness. The Norwegian police are actually better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1573	It is interesting to follow the debate that is now taking place. As a melanin-rich immigrant – or boy, as I used to be – I've been stopped by the police not only once, but well over ten times. Some of the police officers who stopped me at a young age are now my friends. Some of them have been colleagues in the past. It's obviously going well. What I can say is that this kind of debate is interesting to follow, because the description of reality that is being presented is not always the whole truth. As we all agree here: the police are doing their best to ensure our security. Police in Norway have high confidence, including among large sections of the immigrant population. What is perhaps paradoxical is that, despite the fact that the police have a high level of trust and there are more policemen with a background for immigrants in the Norwegian police today, it is right now, today, that these debates appear – on discrimination, systematic monitoring or what one now chooses to use words and expressions. My concern is that this type of debate can lead to a further reduction in the confidence of the immigrant population in the police. That's something we have to be aware of. I'm not so worried that crime will explode and come out of control, but what we know from other countries is that once the police have implemented such measures, the police have refused to do their job. It's a real problem we have to deal with. I have to say that I am confident about what the Minister of Justice is presenting here, and this is a test system that you want to carry out first and foremost in Oslo. It may give us some insight, but we should not underestimate the negative effects of such a measure. Most policemen do their best. They get some of the better education in their field in the world. Then it's that you can't just conclude that systematic checking or whatever it is has its rootstock in the ethnicity, race and background of individuals. There could be geographic relationships that turn in, and who you're with, can also have an effect. For example, these issues are so to speak non-existent in my home state of Telemark, while they are very high on the list here in Oslo. There is something you should consider, and something you should take a closer look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1586	There is no one in this room except the Progress Party who has claimed that Norwegian police are racist. No one has claimed it. What you've said, and what you have good reason to say, is that people with a different skin color than me are stopped more often by the police, and that you can see a pattern. This is not a vision that the Progress Party claims. You can refer to many single events that have been mentioned in the media, not just this year or last year, but for decades. Last year, lawyer Awon Amidu from Trondheim was told in the Discrimination Study that the police had stopped him much more often than the people else, and this in the light of his skin color. The police aren't supposed to stop people just randomly. The police must have a basis for stopping people. Because it can be stigmatizing and stressful to be stopped by the police on the street – that people see the police holding you again and they're going to ask a number of questions and take one out of their friend's mouth. It can be burdensome for many. They must have a certain threshold to do so; there must be good reasons for doing so. Ethnic profiling takes place in Norway, and this has happened. You don't have to be SVs to say that. This has even been said by Erna Solberg from the Right while she was the prime minister of the country. The Progress Party is very concerned about painting this to an Americanization of the Norwegian debate, but this is not an American system. This is a system that we have in a number of European countries, including the United States and Japan. England, Scotland, Romania, Poland and Slovakia. This is not a revolutionary system, but it is a system that gives us more knowledge, and that ensures that people of different backgrounds can have greater confidence in the Norwegian police force. That's exactly the point, and that's why we in SV are proud of this impact, because it's about taking action that strengthens trust in the Norwegian police and that gives us more information. If the Progress Party is so concerned about painting an image of this phenomenon that it does not happen, they should be in favour of a system of acknowledgement that can give us an even better numbering basis and facts, so that targeted action can be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1605	In this case, we are discussing a proposal that intends to remove the tension between the Norwegian police and population groups that may experience mistreatment by the police. The fact that someone experiences this is not something the Progress Party can decide from what they think of the police. It's a fact that some people experience. That's why it's quite paradoxical that the Progress Party is working hard in this debate to create tension, to call things accusations of racism, when the purpose is the very opposite. Of course, I take a sharp distance from Mr. Johnsen's accusations that I am accusing the police in Norway of racism. That kind of claim is extracted from loose air. It is not so dangerous for me, but it is unfortunate for the debate that the Progress Party in this way builds up the tension, when we talk about it, is an action to help eliminate any tensions caused by the changing Norwegian population structure, the changing culture, which is brilliant, but it is also something that the police have to follow. That is why I am pleased that the government has confirmed with its pilot project that this is a legitimate measure that you want to test. It has nothing to do with charges against the police at all. So that's the exact opposite, and I also hope that the Progress Party can take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1612	It uses to be that when you're going to come up with solutions, it's because you actually have a problem to solve. And if you think there's a need to solve a problem, which you obviously do, when you're going to implement this scheme, it's based on an assumption that the problem exists. It is alarming that the State Council responsible for implementing this scheme is not itself able to demonstrate – or agree – that the problem exists. And that's where the problem lies. Because when you're going to solve a problem that doesn't exist and come up with proposals that are meant to solve it, you've also said that the problem exists, even if you can't prove it. If you are afraid to create distrust between the police and immigrant youth, that's exactly what you're helping to do, which I also perceived as the Right Representative's inside. So when these things happen, it's usually when the left-hand side sits in government. The last time you had to solve a problem that didn't exist was under the previous red-green government. Then job applications were to be anonymised, assuming that those who did not have Norwegian-sounding names, i.e. foreign names, had more difficulty getting into the labour market. So it was based on an assumption. Last year we got the result of that trial scheme, and what turned out to be the exact opposite result, namely that applicants with a foreign background were less called for interviews when anonymised applications were made. So the problem did not exist. The same thing is true here. They help create contradictions in society. It is not said in plain language that the police are racist, but one insinuates that the problem exists – and that must be because the police act in some way that can be interpreted as racist. The party of progress is strongly opposed to this. We believe that we have a well-trained police who do their job in the best way to ensure people's safety in everyday life. Then we should not spend time on schemes like this, where one has to solve a problem that cannot be documented. However, I have not heard anything but anecdotes that have been rammed out of this pulpit, in order to justify the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1625	The representative Andreas Shelg Unneland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1630	I strongly distance myself from what the Progress Party claims that this is not a problem in Norway. Interestingly, the representative of the Progress Party believes that there is only anecdotal evidence. There's a lot of anecdotal evidence, so many that you could say it's going on at a systematic level. But there is also the Discrimination Bureau and the Discrimination Board, which have established that people have been stopped on the basis of their skin color. There is no new and alarming fact that there is systematic discrimination in our society. There is more hare in Oslo west than in Oslo east; however, more in Oslo east are stopped by the police. The national lawyer has just stated that there has been a systematic error in the police’s handling of coercive drug use. There are a number of things we have to clean up, and it's not about trust in the police. It's about how we create high trust in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1638	There have been many interesting things said here today, and one of those things was that the committee leader referred to the Greens as an external left-wing party. I'm a little excited about Hansson's reaction. From a joke to a serious one: As many people have mentioned here, it is first about recognising that ethnic profiling is a problem. Erna Solberg has done it; I appreciate it incredibly much. The Labour Party mentions in our programme that structural racism is a challenge. Even those in the police who do not want a receipt system, are able to recognise at least that there is a problem that they have to work with, but they have other measures, which I also appreciate. This is not an Americanization of the debate. Although my good colleague from SV mentioned several examples in Europe, I think we should just look at numbers in our own country. Seven out of ten young people say that those who decide in this country are not doing enough to stop racism — figures provided to the Prime Minister today early. Let's take this a little bit seriously. In the Workers' Party, we believe that personal checks are necessary. They are. To the claims that a receipt is carte blanche: it is not. You can be stopped later. That's getting the evidence and the knowledge base we want to build on, it's about. The police will have time and trust. We have to provide resources for that, so they can give the explanation, spend time, make an assessment. Trust we have to work with over time, and it's about several things. We are all looking forward to following up on the experience of this pilot scheme. I'm happy to learn from it. I am delighted to take the committee leader on tour in Oslo to learn from this pilot. That doesn't mean that the receipt order is the only thing we can do. As I said, the Oslo police are already in the process of setting up a fair police force, which is now to be rolled out to the rest of the country, we have to recruit a lot, bodycam – there are several things we are discussing here. This is one of several things we want to test out and see if we can take advantage of. I was working on a pilot scheme in Oslo. I've fought for this for years. I therefore believe that a pilot scheme, and that it will work, and that we can learn from it, is important before we possibly discuss this for the rest of the country. Otherwise: Mass of kudos to the representatives of the Greens, who have promoted this proposal. I'd like to say one thing at a time. It is important not to stand on this pulpit to trivialize racism. Racism has been proven several times. Thanks to the Black Lives Matter movement, which speeded up the George Floyd killing, we have found even more examples in society, which have emerged not only as anecdotes but also as systematic statistics. I ask the Assembly – of course through the President – to get involved in these figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1657	The representative from SV thinks that the Progress Party should have been for the receipt system, because then we could see or not see if what we are now discussing is a problem. When we talk about what we can see and can't see, we're in on the bodycam, which the previous speaker was also talking about, fortunately. I am pleased that the Labour Party has sometimes mentioned it here in the debate, because that is something we in the Progress Party believe could be a wise move, that the police get a camera on the body that can film and record everything that is happening. Then I think absolutely everyone in this room, including those on the extreme left wing – whether they feel at home there or not, at least most people and we have placed them far out on the left side somewhere – will see that the Norwegian police act politely, objectively and tidyly and are not as negative to some groups of the population that some are trying to create an impression of. Or vice versa, I think you can also see that many of the criminals and many of those who the police stop, don't behave as exemplary as someone is obviously trying to believe here, or what they're now thinking. It'll be an advantage for the police, I think, to have a bodycam. We fear without a doubt that a receipt will be a gift package for criminals. As the representative from SV said clearly here earlier today: the threshold for verification has to be raised. The police will then work hard to stop potentially criminals, and it will make it easier for mobs and criminals, make it harder for the police and make everyday life the most less safe for people. Back to the proposal that the government is working on: I am very pleased that the Green Party's proposal today is not being adopted, but with regard to the proposal contained in the state budget for a pilot project in Oslo, there are a few words that I hope can be a rescue for everyone in this Chamber, and for the police and perhaps the criminals if that is the case. It is a ‘technical solution’. Those words are contained in that proposal from the State budget. In my head, a technical solution should be bodycam, and I hope that can be a good conclusion. Unfortunately, the Swedish representative now has no more speaking time, but we were accused of something instead here – no one in this room claimed that the police are racist, except for us in the Progress Party. It's the other way around. It's turned completely on your head. It's just we in the Progress Party who are clear about claiming that there's no racism in the police. So it would have been interesting to hear what SV really means: Is there racism in the police, or is there not racism in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1668	After several years as a lawyer, I have experienced a very good cooperation with our police. With the confederations and the trustees, we've been sitting around the table many times and we've come up with good solutions. With regard to this trial scheme, the receipt scheme, too, we are going to sit down with the police – along with the trusted ones, with the confederations – and listen to their experience of the work, which we must also listen to the audience's experience of this trial scheme. Then it is important for us to say that more from the Workers' Party and the Centre have mentioned that we will now gain experience from the pilot scheme, and we cannot therefore support the solution proposed by the Greens' Greens' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1675	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1692	Following the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1701	The background to this case was the Solberg Government’s proposal for changes to the collection and supervision law in order to transfer the power to deal with complaints about the decisions of the Financial Supervisory Authority in debt collection cases from the Ministry of Justice and Defence to the Board of Appeal for auditors and accountants. The aim of the change is to ensure better and more efficient handling of these issues. Debt collection is the only field of business in the financial industry where the Ministry of Justice and Defence is the Board of Appeal today. There are few cases, and there is little effective treatment and a vulnerable situation of competence. In the view of the Ministry, the type of action is better suited to dealing with complaints than in the Ministry, which is agreed by an overall committee. The complaint subject for auditor and accountant matters has a good composition and competence which gives a good reputation for dealing with complaints in debt collection cases. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1710	The provision of debt collection services requires authorisation. Authorisation is granted by the Financial Supervisory Authority if the conditions laid down in the Debt Collection Act are fulfilled. Financial supervision may also withdraw collection appropriations. Complaints about the Decision of the Financial Supervisory Authority in the field of debt collection are being dealt with today by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. Debt collection is the only field of business in the financial sector in which the Ministry of Justice and Defence is the Board of Appeal. The Ministry deals on average with one to two complaints about the Financial Supervisory Authority’s decision this year. The decisions are rarely converted in the review procedure. A high proportion of the decisions on withdrawal of debt collection are brought back before the courts. This leads to high social costs on a case-by-case basis. When there are so few cases in the year which are dealt with in individual cases in the ministry, this leads to a low level of effective treatment and a vulnerable situation of competence. This is the background to the proposal to transfer the competence to deal with complaints to a complainant. The complaint subject of statutory auditors and accountants deals with similar types of cases, and there are certain similarities between the fields of activity. In the view of the Ministry, the complaint department is suitable as a complaint body for the collection cases, which is also agreed by itself. The Ministry will assess the need for any change in the composition of the name before the competence is transferred, in order to ensure that the name has sufficient competence to deal with the collection issues. The aim of the proposal is to achieve more effective and appropriate procedures in the complaints cases, and I am pleased that an overall committee supports the legislative proposal. The adoption of the legislative proposal is likely to result in more efficient procedures and better coherence with other financial disciplines. At the same time, the independence and proximity of the profession could contribute to a higher level of confidence in the review process than in the current system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1725	No one has asked for a line, and others have not asked for the word on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1741	Following the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1750	I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee and the Committee Secretary for their cooperation in dealing with this matter. In this case, legislative changes are proposed to help clarify and clarify some of the already existing rules on withdrawal in the criminal law. Reference is made to the Ministry’s assessment that the changes may make the practice and enforcement of the legislation less challenging. This also has an important side to predictability and legal certainty for individuals. The legislative proposal follows up some of the proposals in the Criminal Council's investigation NOU 2020:10. The overall conclusion of the Penalty Council is that the current rules on withdrawal provide sufficient scope to ensure the effective withdrawal of proceeds from recriminalism and that the challenges of withdrawal are largely due to reasons other than shortcomings in the rules of Chapter 13 of the Criminal Code. However, the Council has proposed legislative amendments aimed at clarifying and clarifying the legal situation. In December 2020, the government requested the government to draw up proposals for legislative changes to facilitate the more effective withdrawal of dividends from criminal offences. Three provisions of the penal code have been proposed. Paragraph 68 of the Criminal Code, on the extension of withdrawal, clarifies the central scope of the provision in the first paragraph, the amendment to the third paragraph of the provision is intended to codify the law in force in the field and the amendment to the fourth paragraph is a continuation of the second paragraph of the present provision with a change in wording. The amendment proposed in Section 72 is related to the relationship with transferees, related to what negligence must include in the good faith assessment. The amendment to Section 74 relates to the clarification of the legislation relating to whether the object claimed to have been confiscated. In addition, not related to the rules of withdrawal, there is an amendment to the Law on Compensation for Damage § 3-3, where the Penal Code § 253 on Forced Marriage and § 299 on the Rape of Children under 14 years of age are added to the list of provisions of the Penal Code that confer the right to compensation for damages. The reference to these was lost by an incursion, and the change is made to correct this. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by an overall committee, on the basis that each party will explain its views on the matter where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1767	Although, fortunately, repeat crime is not very widespread in Norway, the crime committed has a major impact on society. Violence and killings create insecurity in vulnerable urban areas and growing-up environments. Values are eluded from the community, and the gangs move young people into a criminal racetrack. We have to do everything we can to combat this kind of crime. Before the summer, the Solberg government presented the big news together against childhood, youth and recriminalism. The notification reviews the status and trends, summarises the work started, identifies the remaining challenges and points out further efforts in this area. Unfortunately, the Workers' Party and the Centre have chosen to draw this message. Among the measures we proposed were strengthening the conflict councils, implementing several legislative changes that would make it more difficult to be recriminal in Norway, and extending the possibility of withdrawing dividends from recriminalism. We know that the proportion of total dividends seized after criminal offences is low. Inefficient and unclear rules of withdrawal help to make crime more profitable, as the chance of maintaining dividends is high. Crime should not pay off, and it must be noticed both through the level of punishment and through the withdrawal of values from criminal acts. We have to make it easier to get out of crime, while making it more difficult to recruit new ones for the rest of the world. These legislative changes are the first steps towards clearer and more effective withdrawal rules. It is important that the law is clear on which cases the courts can bring dividends in so that the rules can be applied to a greater extent than at present. As I said, I regret that the government has drawn the big message of child, youth and recrime crime, and that in the supplementary budget for 2022 they also removed the strengthening of the Council of Conflict. A general description of one and a half lines in the Hurdal platform is all the fields are satisfied with. It is difficult to read from this platform that this work will be carried out ‘with full effort’, as it says in the case. But I'm glad that an overall committee is behind the recommendation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1782	Of course, the progress party is behind the vote, and the whole committee is. It is a good proposal, and it is important to move forward in order to have effective measures to combat juvenile and recriminal crime. But I feel that there's going to be a lot of rhetoric around here. It might be appropriate with the background sound that we have here now, with sirens. What is at stake now is to put in place the measures that work. I also agree that we could have discussed a new big message. The important thing is that the decisions taken by the Stortinget are now operationalised. We have a lot of basis for this from the previous magnification period. It's not the right way today's government parties are trying to produce it, where there are some rhetorical attacks on the Progress Party and the former government parties, because we've been very concerned about it. We have made concrete proposals in Stortinget, and we in the Progress Party have also been given some majority in favour of several of the proposals we made in the previous big deal – i.e. request decisions. We got a few majority with the Right and the other bourgeois parties, others actually with the Center Party and the Labour Party. A long list of sandwiches is available if more effective measures are needed to combat juvenile and recriminal crime. Governments have it on their desks. I hope the Minister of Justice chooses to give priority to that work. Of course, the Ministry of Justice has a lot of other important things to deal with, but in this area, what should be given priority, namely, to operationalize, to bring forward proposals to the Stortinget where we get the laws that Stortinget has already asked for – and by a relatively large majority here in this Chamber. Then we really need to implement policies, not just discuss politics. My small recommendation to the government and to the Minister of Justice is that, in the further work here, priority should be given to the request decisions in this area to which the Stortinget has already joined, by a broad majority, and which will be guaranteed by a majority if promoted and dealt with in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1793	Criminal gangs represent a significant challenge. Through violence, threats and other crime, these are gangs that help create population insecurity, and we have no place for criminal gangs in our society. The outlook for profit is an important driving force behind refactory crime, as it looks. Therefore, the withdrawal of dividends from criminal acts is an important measure to combat gangs. Effective withdrawal will both prevent the criminal activity of the gangs and could prevent recruitment. The investigation No. 2020: 10 from the Criminal Council shows that, at some points, the withdrawal rules are perceived as unclear and that they provide insufficient guidance on what is to be withdrawn and in what situations. This can make it challenging to practise and enforce the legislation. The amendments currently proposed aim to clarify the rules of withdrawal and to facilitate the identification of the rules. The rules will be more accessible. This could contribute to more effective withdrawal of dividends from criminal offences. No one's supposed to be profiting from criminal acts. Then these rules must be clear. Firstly, the proposal aims at clarifying the scope of and access to so-called extended inclusion in criminal law. Furthermore, it is proposed to clarify access to withdrawal with regard to commercial operators and clarify the provision on the party position in proceedings for the withdrawal of dividends not belonging to the offender. The Proposition follows up parts of the Criminal Prosecution Council’s investigation NOU 2020: 10 on the withdrawal of dividends from recrime, but also responds to parts of the Storting’s request decision No. 446 from 18 December 2020. I am pleased that an overall judicial committee has been behind the proposals for clarification and clarification of the withdrawal rules. This is a step in the right direction to ensure a more effective withdrawal of proceeds from criminal offences and for more effective fight against recrime.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1806	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1823	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who would have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1830	I would like to thank the representatives Hussein and Lyssäkken for raising this issue of democratic anchoring and control of invasive disease protection measures. I would also like to thank the Committee on constructive cooperation and not least the good work it has done. There are 21 written recordings for our hearing. There is no doubt that many are concerned with democratic anchoring when it comes to infectious diseases and intervention in everyday life. After two years of pandemic and a long fight against covid-19, most of us finally live relatively normal lives again. However, during the pandemic, it has been challenging to deal with a pandemic and various infectious diseases for both local and national authorities. In this hall a temporary corona law was established and later extended as a foundation for the Democratic anchoring and control of the Great Britain in the management of the pandemic. At the same time, a set of data protection laws, with powers and preparedness laws to allow national and local authorities to take care of the safety of citizens in the event of an infection by measures that are assessed as necessary and proportionate, are permitted. The necessity and proportionality of interventional measures for the protection of infection is an important element in enabling measures to be taken under the Code. I would also like to point out that the Code of Disease Prevention is a law on legal certainty. The interests of society must be protected against the individual's personal integrity and legal protection and all powers under the IPD were released because covid-19 was defined as a general dangerous disease. There are, in fact, proposals to set up a legislative selection to go through laws and frameworks for action against pandemics. There is a joint committee that is busy that the government through the work of the Korona Commission and a recently announced external independent review of the Coronapandemy must come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with how a review of the legislation will be managed. Furthermore, I would like to make some final comments to the proposal on behalf of the Centre Party. We do not want to vote in favour of the proposals in this case, as one believes that this advertised independent review of the pandemic from the government will provide a basis for a broad and holistic review of – and give the Storting the necessary knowledge of – democratic anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1847	I would also like to thank you for promoting this proposal for an important topic, but I also want to use the opportunity to thank you for the cooperation over the last two years, and it has been with changing government. Then we can see that Norway, after all, has made a pretty good comparison with other countries. We are one of the countries that have both the fewest measures and that have made us feel good about this. Yesterday, FHI could report that we have now reached the top. We're going down, both in the case of insertions and the use of intensive capacity. Although this is not what is most prominent in the media image and in consciousness — for entirely natural reasons — it is still important to follow. The Code provides powers for the rapid, if necessary and when proportionate, implementation of intervention measures. That's because you have to be able to protect both society and the people. You have to prevent infection, but you also have to justify the intervention that you actually do, and I believe that you have. Having openness all the way around what you do, and why, is an important part of this. Both the previous and the current government have also worked through the Corona Commission. Now this government has also announced that it will continue the work, with an independent review of the pandemic. It's important to get to know how we could have done this better, what has worked, and what has not worked. It's also a fact that we have to bear in mind that no one knew how to do this right when it came. The important thing was to give the necessary powers to get us through it as best we can. The Committee has been in both Finland and Sweden very recently to look at how this has been done and talked a lot about it. In Finland and Sweden, it was then highlighted that Norway, together with Finland, has achieved the best results, and the differences between us and Sweden are quite clear. There is the criticism from the Korona Commission that there has not been enough government governance, and they have a completely different health care system that is much more fragmented than ours. But I think that's what we're going to take with us, and then we're going to be open to the rounds that come. We're not going to put this in a drawer because we can say that we're done with the pandemic – we're going to learn from it, and I think the government is doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1860	The work on infectious diseases in Norway is mainly regulated by the infectious diseases Code. In this respect, the Stortinget has authorised the Government to implement rapid and effective measures to protect public health and to protect the general public against dangerous infectious diseases. But the IPD does not give the government unlimited powers. The IPD was last revised in Stortinget in 2019, and then a separate provision was introduced in the IPD that limits these powers. The provision lays down requirements for infectious disease control measures to have clear medical grounds and to be necessary and appropriate after an overall assessment. It implies that the current and legal measures for the protection of infection will vary according to the situation. In the first report of the Corona Commission, which was delivered in the spring of 2021, it was concluded that the authorities’ overall management of the coronary apathy has been good. One important reason for this, according to the Commission, is that the government has been able to put in place rapid measures to protect the population against the coronary virus. The Commission considers that the powers of the government under the IPD Act to take urgent decisions when the interests of the protection of infection so warrant continue. However, they also say that the infectious disease law does not impose sufficient requirements for democratic control when it is necessary to decide quickly. In view of this, the Commission’s report recommended by the Code of Disease Protection has had to be reviewed. The right considers it appropriate to review the infectious diseases law, as recommended by the Commission. These include: reason for asking whether the IPD has been sufficiently developed to deal with long-term pandemics. That's what the Right doesn't think. A review of the IPD will be important to learn from the experience of the coronary apathy has given us, so that we get a better piece of legislation and a better plan for a possible new pandemic. However, the Right considers that the infectious disease law should be amended as far as possible under an ongoing pandemic, as proposed by the proposed representative. That is also why we do not support the proposal for a representative in the Chamber today. It must be a broad and comprehensive review, not a piece and a piece. In the end, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Solberg government in its last state budget also announced its own announcement of health preparedness, where both legislation and planning will be important for Stortinget to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1873	I would like to thank the proposers for this important proposal. So it is a country in Europe that is now at war and fighting for democracy and its freedom, and that is why this is important. That is why I think it is also an important debate – without comparison, fortunately. Democracy is what our society is built on, and democratic anchoring is therefore absolutely essential when taking measures that have a significant impact on people's everyday lives. There's no doubt that the coronary apathy has given a huge impact on people's lives and everyday life over the last two years. Nevertheless, it was important that the necessary measures were put in place as soon as technical recommendations were made. This has led to the fact that during the pandemic you have not been given the democratic anchor you would like to have, and that the Stortinget has not been involved as much as you would like. Very interventional measures have enormous consequences for business, for people's economy and for people's mental health. We should not just think about one or two times before introducing such interventional measures, but rather four or five times. However, time and again the Minister for Health had to experience that more stringent measures were introduced as soon as the recommendations were on the table, but when it came to facilitating the measures, she took a good time. We can't have it that it's easier to deprive people of freedom than to give it back. It's wrong for practical reasons, and it's wrong for principal reasons. You can imagine that a place to serve goes bankrupt and people have to go to unemployment, or the extra psychological stresses it has had for students living in student cabins, without any social meeting places, just because the Minister of Health has been more eager to shut down than actually opening up. When you have such attitudes to people's freedom, it creates distrust between politicians and the people. It creates crazy signals to be more eager to deprive people of freedom than to give it back. Now I really hope that shutting down is a story, that we will let it go in the future, but if it should be necessary again, it will not be one day longer than necessary – and I also quote the Prime Minister. One of the previous speakers, the representative Myrseth, was up and pointed out what the authorities in Sweden have done, but I recorded that the Finnish authorities were not equally concerned about democratic governance of this here. In Finland, it was quite clear that political anchoring was important. That is what the Progress Party believes is important, and that is what this is all about, the anchoring and ensuring that you have the good anchoring. That is why we are concerned with an important debate. We agree that you have to have the opportunity to shut down, and you also have the opportunities, but I believe – as the Corona Commission – that it is important that you now actually go through this. Then I will address the proposals of the Progress Party on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1890	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1895	We face many challenges, both nationally and internationally. As the previous speaker said, what primarily characterises today’s news picture is Russia’s gross attack on Ukraine. I should have used the whole article on it, but I won't. What I am going to talk about is the nearby theme of democratic anchoring, which the Ukrainian people are also fighting for. Both in the environment and health, in war and peace, intervention of great importance for each citizen of society is required in our time. This is because my freedom can become another person's impunity. Anti-democratic flows have resulted in the storming of the U.S. Congress, and thousands have marched into the streets of European cities protesting infectious measures. At home, we have striven to achieve the necessary digestion in some parts of the population for vaccination and oral use. We saw that transparency made it easier to put in place the necessary measures where there was a greater need. Vaccination agencies in Oslo now need to reduce their capacity significantly – both because very many have been vaccinated, and because there are some that do not knock down their doors. In times of crisis, our main defence readiness is that the population trusts the leaders of the country, that democratic processes function by the decision-making of intervention by the populace and not by the bureaucracy – and especially important: transparency and the importance of public dialogue, where one can talk about the various implications of an action. Past speakers have talked a lot about how the Swedes have chosen to solve this. The Swedes, for example, chose: not shutting down schools — as we learned on the trip, about children and young people’s needs. That is why democratic anchoring is important and we are discussing it. I note that there will not be a majority for our proposal today. Democratic anchoring gives legitimacy, and we need it most of all in crisis. We in SV have felt relatively alone in the fight for democratic anchoring. We hear all the world's excuses, primarily of a practical nature. Here in Norway, we have been sitting for two years in various Team and Zoom meetings, and it is a pity that we should not be able to organise ourselves to ensure democratic anchoring and control of intervention. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1906	Two years ago we were put on a difficult test in front of a pandemic we knew very little about. We now need to learn lessons from it, both to strengthen health preparedness and to see how crises are to be dealt with in a democratic society. In the last two years, the government has decided, on the basis of the law on infectious diseases, that: That we should stay at home how many guests we can have Whether we can keep restaurants, theatres and training centres open how far apart we have to sit on the bus that grandparents are not allowed to visit a nursing home that we have not been allowed to bring with us relatives when we need health care These are enormously interventional measures, but most of us agree that they were probably absolutely necessary, and the population has largely complied with them. It wouldn't have been possible without a trust-based society. That trust has a great value. That's actually one of the main reasons why we've managed to get through the pandemic well so far. It's a trust we're going to manage with caution and respect. In order to maintain confidence in the population, people need to feel confident that the choices made for them are well-founded and have broad support. Democracy is crucial even in times of crisis — perhaps especially in times of crisis. A pandemic may be an exceptional state, but it's been for over two years now. It tells us something about that we need to have a law that ensures that our democracy operates in a good way even in times of exception. Even in times of crisis, the population must be able to be confident that the provisions that are being taken and that have consequences for their lives are anchored in the Stortinge, where they have been debated and asked questions in an open and democratic process. We have to be able to act quickly, and we have to act on the basis of knowledge, but it can never be a reason to undermine our democracy. I think we all agree on that, fortunately. However, we are in favour of the proposals because we believe that all the intrusive measures must be anchored in the Stortinget, either before they are adopted or immediately afterwards, if anchoring is not possible in advance because of an emergency situation, not least a review of the infectious disease law, with the description we are in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1936	I'll just give a little explanation of vote on this matter, case no. 12th@item: inlistbox In the setting of the case, the patient focus is on an error with the majority. I just want to say that patient focus will support the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1941	There will be a delay until voting time 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1963	The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 March. 55.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1975	During the debate, Turid Kristensen has been looking forward to two proposals on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1, from Right, Advance and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting the payment of the X Games Norway / SAHR grant of 15 million. crowns as adopted in the treatment of the State budget for 2022, so that this may lead to the implementation of qualifications rounds and to the planning and implementation of a full-scale event where the pandemic restrictions so permit.’;» The Green and Christian People's Party has every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e1994	Proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking for 2 million to be paid by the government. SEK of the approved grant in 2022 to X Games Norway / SAHR Productions for the planning of next year's event and that the remaining 13 million of the grant allocated for 2022 are entered in the State budget for 2023 for the implementation of a full-scale event at Lillehammer.» The Green and Christian People's Party has every support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2018	Right, Progress Party, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2030	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-9 and Case No. 17 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2039	Case No. 1–4 is the second time legal proceedings and is subject to legal acts 46–49. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been accepted for the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2053	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-5, by Dagfinn Henrik Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 6, from Mimir Kristjánsson on behalf of Red proposal No 7, from Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is requesting that the current old-age pension and the minimum level of pension and the guarantee pension in social security, and the pension from the other statutory pension schemes, be G-regulated in 2022.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2080	Proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a plan to step up the pension for single minimum pensioners. The first increase must be in the State budget for 2023.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal. Red has already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2099	Proposal No. 3–5, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan for the minimum pension in the annual pension accounts to increase the level by SEK 7500 per year until the minimum pension reaches the poverty target EU60. The first increase must enter the State budget for 2023.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals that follow up the Storting decision to enable organisations to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners in the context of the annual social security payments, which means that pensioners are given real negotiating rights. The proposal must clarify what the organisations of pensioners can negotiate.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the Pensioners’ Association is accommodated in the Technical Calculation Committee for Income Settlements on behalf of pensioners’ organisations.’ [[TBU]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2126	Proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government requests the correction of the difference between the estimated and actual salary growth in 2021 and attach these pensions during payment for 2022.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks to regulate the minimum level of pension equal to the salary increase in 2022.’ The Christian People's Party has every support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2445	The third paragraph of Section VII of Section 19-14 and the third paragraph of Section 20-18 are rejected. The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2459	The rest of the VII and the other Roman numerals are going to be mooted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2469	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2480	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e2511	The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3010	There will be a vote over III New Section 16a. Socialist Left Party, Left, Environment Party The Green and Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3024	The rest of the III and the other Roman numerals are going to be all over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3034	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3045	The law decision will be set up for second time treatment in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3057	During the debate Rasmus Hansson presented a proposal on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a compulsory system of receipts is put in place to ensure that a receipt is always distributed to persons subject to personal checks by police and customs authorities.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Left have already supported the proposal. The Committee had recommended that the Storting should do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3138	The President proposed that the draft representative be sent to the Financial Committee. Mr Halleland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3145	The situation arising from the exceptional cost increases requires rapid follow-up. I therefore ask that the matter be dealt with urgently in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3150	There are then two proposals for the procedure for the draft representative. Alternatively, the proposal of the president for committee procedure and the proposal of the Progress Party on Rules of Procedure, paragraph 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3207	The Act on the Protection of Infectious Diseases is an Act on Powers and Responsibilities. The law empowers local and central authorities to implement the necessary measures to prevent infection. It shall also provide a basis for local and central health authorities to deal with situations which are previously unknown and for which the course of events is unknown. As has been said by several speakers, the Code is also a law on the protection of infectious diseases, as is apparent from its intended purpose. In implementing measures, the interests of society must be balanced against the personal integrity and legal protection of individuals. The coronary apathy has led to the need to implement a number of invasive disease protection measures. Many measures have been put in place at short notice and often without prior opportunity to carry out ordinary consultations. I am concerned that the measures are always proportionate, as required by law, and that the people have confidence in what we do. It is important that the government and the ministry are open about the professional and legal assessments underlying the measures, that we inform well about the measures and that they be adjusted rapidly if experience or new knowledge indicates that the measures are no longer proportionate. I believe we have taken care of this. The Government will follow up the recommendations of the Corona Commission and will also see the need for a review of, inter alia, the infectious disease protection and health protection laws. In such work, the issues raised by the representatives will also need to be assessed. Like the majority of the committee, I think it is most appropriate to do so as part of a broad and comprehensive review of the relevant legislation. I have not concluded on the question of whether such a legislative review should be carried out by setting up a legislative committee or by other appropriate means. I will come back to the Stortinget explaining how the government and the ministry will carry out a legislative review in the light of recommendations from the Corona Commission and the experience we have gained since March 2020 through the management of the covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3220	It's ready for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3225	The Corona Commission was set up in April 2020 and delivered its first report in April last year. They will deliver their second report during the spring, including the most likely report in April. The government has now announced that they will also look at the remaining piece of the corona handling, and I think it is good that a doer. There are a number of recommendations, at least in the first interim report to the Corona Commission. The council was a little bit concerned with the law, but there are a number of other things that are about corona management, such as planning and follow-up of the municipalities, primary health services and hospitals. My question to the Council of State is: How has the government planned to follow up the recommendations of the Corona Commission in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3230	The pandemic is not over even if the measures are relieved and we live our lives quite normally again. We have announced that we will come up with a change in the strategy we have to deal with the pandemic, and it should be a live-with strategy. We want the covid-19 virus among us for a long time, and there may be new variants that can surprise us again. We will present this completely to Stortinget, where we will then make visible a readiness that can be mobilized if things change. But as the situation looks now, we're going to have a light in front of a manageable infection. In many ways, we now have good indications that we're over the infection peak, and that it's gone very well. There's a lot of learning along the way from the work of the Corona Commission that we're going to include in that strategy, and then we'll come back with any legislative changes after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3235	I share the view of the Council of State that it is important to keep up with further developments. Even though we're kind of on our way out now, new virus variants can arise that make us have to keep up with the situation. With regard to the proposal for a representative, the Corona Commission concluded that one of the challenges was to have democratic control. That's also one of the reasons why, for example, The right-hand belief in the IPD may not be as good in dealing with long-term pandemics. In the assessment made by the government in the letter sent on the basis of the representative proposal, the government immediately concludes – that it would be wrong to make changes in the handling of a pandemic. Then my question to the Council of State is what thoughts the Council of State is about how long you should have, before you can have a revision of a law in the middle of a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3240	I agree with the representative Svardal Bøe that the time here and now is not right to initiate a legislative change. First, we're going to present the revised strategy. Then we're going to get report number two from the Corona Commission, which has replaced the leader, who's been working on what's happened until October 31st. There is still work going on to present a separate health emergency message to the Stortinget, so we are dependent on seeing these processes in the context before we report to Stortinget that it is right to start legal work for the two important laws. I agree that for a long-term crisis, we may not have the right mechanisms, without going into exactly what it is. I would also like to say that we have had an infectious disease law that has worked as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3245	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3263	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who would have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3270	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for their good cooperation. This is an important matter, for which the proposers wish to ‘obligate health professionals to follow the advice given to patients from the Expert Panel’. The backcloth of this matter is serious to individuals all around the country, and it is literally talking about life or death. The expert panel was created in 2018. It is a valuable contribution to the safety and quality of our common healthcare system. The scheme shall ensure that all relevant treatment has been evaluated and the Expert Panel can thus provide both hope for patients and relatives, and not least save and prolong life. The Committee's recommendation has a large majority in favour of this proposal for a representative not being adopted. That doesn't mean, on the other hand, that the same parties are fully satisfied with today's system. I believe that the various groupings of parties will explain this in their own speeches, and I would therefore like to make these preliminary points to the rapporteur. The reviews carried out by the scheme show that the advice of the Expert Panel is being very much followed, and thus one might say that the scheme is functioning as intended. That's good. But the fact that a system works according to purpose does not mean that there is no room for improvement. For the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, it is essential that all patients be given equal access to good services regardless of where they live and what a servant does. This also applies in the case of tested treatments. The recent evaluation showed that there is an improvement potential. Important input has been made in the evaluation round, and also in this case the Cancer Association has made important and good input. I am sure that the Council of State will take this into account in its further work, and she has already announced, not later than today's Medicine a few days ago, that the scheme will reach even more patients and be improved based on input from the evaluation. When, as far as I can see, all the other parties want to improve the system, the Workers' Party and the Centre do not mean that we believe that the advisory role of the Expert Panel should be changed. This will be reflected in the adopted decision-making system and could have unintended, unfortunate effects. Having said that, I think we can all just imagine what patients who get no from the hospital after the expert panel has given their positive advice are going through. It's a very real problem for the people involved, and it affects people's lives when it's at least the most vulnerable. Therefore, the Workers' Party and the Centre are aware that access to our common healthcare should be equal throughout the country and that it is not the economy of the individual hospital to decide whether the advice from the Expert Panel should be implemented. It is an important principle that, in consultation with the patient, physicians and healthcare professionals decide which treatment to provide. At the same time, it is important to look at all our arrangements with an eye on improvements. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State is clearly aware that the evaluation should be actively used to ensure even better services and treatment for our patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3291	In the right we have a great deal of understanding of the intentions of this proposal, and that is what the case-rapporteur, Mr Vasvik, just said in his speech: for those patients who get their treatment assessed by the panel, the situation is tremendous. These are patients who are very seriously ill, and it is important that we discuss and evaluate these types of arrangements, so that we are sure that they make such an intention. It was right in government that helped establish the expert panel. It was precisely to ensure that seriously ill patients who have been informed that healing is not possible can ask their doctor to contact the expert panel and get an assessment of whether there are studies, trial treatments or other alternatives from which the patient may benefit. Then we also believe that it is important to follow up on whether the purpose and purpose of the panel of experts have actually contributed to providing a better offer to very serious patients. That is why, when we were in office, an evaluation of the mandate of the panel of experts was also started. We agree with what Mr Vasvik said in his statement: if there were a majority in favour of the proposal from the proposers, it would transfer decision-making powers from the healthcare company to the expert panel. However, an evaluation is now available and follow-up will be important. We can't now conclude that you don't want to make changes, that you don't want to, but it's too early. A proper evaluation or evaluation of the evaluation carried out must be carried out. We expect the government to follow this up and answer some of the questions asked in the evaluation, and come back to the Storing as quickly as the government can, with a follow-up. Because it is of great importance to people at a very demanding stage to be absolutely sure that they have access to the very best we can give them in our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3300	The expert panel and the establishment of the expert panel were very good. I also hope and believe that everyone in this room knows that when you get the expert panel's assessment, it's the last opportunity you have to get help and life-saving treatment and medicine. I just have to say that this is about that, in order to get an assessment, it should be that you have been told that you might have a maximum of one year to live again. Then you don't have time for bureaucracy, you don't have time to wait. The representative from the Right says it's too early to conclude. For those people this applies, time is some of the things they have the least of. They actually need treatment. I think we should have a health care system for sick people, not for bureaucracy. Serious sick people don't have time for bureaucratic customs and we don't make the right decisions. Once a medicine has been approved by the Expert Panel, the Advance Party believes that then the hospitals have to follow these advice. It's little amazing that in Norway, one of the world's richest countries, we can't afford to give life-long medications to people who suffer, and I don't understand that the parties who vote against this feel they're better at assessing this than the Expert Panel. Line of 38 years has incurable cancer after a cell test that was misinterpreted several years ago. The expert panel recommended that she receive a new, tried-and-tested treatment, but the hospital chose not to follow the advice from the expert panel. The consequence is that she needs to spend the money she received in patients’ damages to finance the treatment she needs as a result of the patient’s injury – despite the advice from the expert panel was that she should receive that treatment. A round of treatment costs about 350,000 kroner, a staggering sum for ordinary people. Fortunately, after the matter was brought to your attention, Line got his treatment covered by the public. As I see it, there is little doubt about the intention behind the Expert Panel. I both feel that the purpose was clear, and that the former Minister of Health was clear that this was something to follow up. I am therefore very disappointed that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the SV and the Red Party are voting against the proposal of the Advance Party. I want to ask straight out: who is it that they don't trust? Is that the advice of the Expert Panel, with some of the top experts we have in the field, that the Cancer Association, is it the decision-makers who recommend medicine, or is it the patients even they don't trust? I believe that is what this matter is about. This is important. In 2021, there were 250 applications, 41 were treated, and six patients were given life-long medications. This is about the last straw straw and the last opportunity to get help. I therefore hope that you do as in mountain sweat rule no. 8 – I believe it is – that you turn around in time, and that the majority in this room vote for the proposals of the Progress Party and ensure that it is not the economy of the individual hospitals that determines whether you are being treated or not. I refer to the proposal on which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3315	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3320	It can be said relatively briefly, what we are going to debate here, because there are challenges associated with the Expert Panel. I am pleased that the system has been evaluated, and I look forward to the proposals that are coming. There are challenges associated with the fact that sick people with severe life-absorbing disease and short life- expectancy are insecure if they have received all adequately established treatment. It's important to make sure to those people that everything has been tried. For patients and the hospital staff treating them, it is important that all individual assessments have been made, and they are responsible for, providing sound health care. We in SV believe that this proposal from the Progress Party will shift this responsibility for some of the most urgent patients, out of the hospital and to the Expert Panel. Such powdering of responsibilities is not necessarily for the patient’s benefit, and it can also create major geographical differences. That is why we are voting in favour of today's proposals by the Progress Party. But we're also going to follow the evaluations that come from the Expert Panel, and look at what we can do better to ensure all the people the security they need in a difficult life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3329	We in the Patient Focus think it is nice that the Solberg government has established the expert panel. Health regions agreed to define the mandate of the panel of experts, and patients in a very demanding health situation may be re-assessed of treatment options, which may give patients hope. We're not going to take hope from people; we're going to give people hope, and the expert panel's assessment is most up-to-date when established treatment has been tried. This is important, not just for the patient concerned, and for the close ones, who are also affected, but it is also important to get new knowledge. Most patients assessed by the expert panel are cancer patients. The evaluation of a patient’s potential by an expert committee gives the patient confidence that everything that can be tested has been tested. Exploratory treatment provides knowledge of new treatments, and the willingness to really test new methods may be one of the reasons why several cancer patients live longer despite having cancer with spread. It is also important that patients with ALS are included in the scheme from the patient’s focus, so that new methods can also be tested for them. It is important for a patient group who lives tough days before they die. The expert panel shall have an advisory role. It is in the mandate. It will continue to be up to the treating physician, the health business and the patient to decide whether to follow the advice of the expert panel. However, whether it is the case that health businesses are constantly looking at the costs of one treatment without looking at how this can also benefit both the patient and society, we are cutting the mandate of the expert panel. The majority of the Health and Care Committee refers to an ongoing evaluation of the panel of experts and that the Ministry will assess the need to make changes or adjustments. On behalf of the patients, I hope that the Council of State intends to involve the Storting in this matter, and I understand that so she will. However, if the economy of the individual hospital becomes critical given whether a patient is referred to for evaluation at the expert panel, and if the patient is treated, it may mean different offers and different solutions in different parts of Norway. Then patients in the districts, in Finnmark and in District Norway can soon be the ones who lose out on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3348	The government wants a strong public health service to provide day-to-day safety and access to high-quality healthcare. The Expert Panel can contribute to both increased safety and quality by providing a new and thorough assessment to patients with a limited life expectancy. The Ministry has recently received the Health Regions’ response to the task of evaluating the Expert Panel. The evaluation concludes that the Expert Panel has delivered well according to its mandate. However, the evaluation report and the supplementary document of the health regions contain a number of proposals for changes to the scheme. The government is constantly working to improve the system, so that Norwegian patients get good services. We will now go through these proposals in depth with a view to further developing the system. I would point out that the Expert Panel has an advisory role. It is the healthcare professional and the healthcare provider who, in consultation with the patient, decides which treatment to provide. It is within these frameworks that we will look at the need to make adjustments in the light of the proposals made by the report and the health regions, and in the light of the input from professional and patient organisations. I note that the majority of the committee finds it natural to await this process and, if necessary, come back to the matter once the ministry has evaluated these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3359	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3365	The Council of State was committed to a follow-up to the evaluation. It is clear that it is crucial, for the evaluation and addition of health care businesses to show that there are some unanswered questions, and there are a good number of proposals for changes. So my first question is really: how quickly will the Council of State do this work, and how quickly will you be able to see changes that allow patients to gain greater confidence, insofar as you don't have it, that this system will work better?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3370	We will follow up on proposals for changes to the scheme within the framework of which it applies, namely that it is an advisory function and that the responsibilities remain the same, that the treating physician is responsible for assessing what is proper treatment. Then we will continue to make adjustments in the light of next year’s letter of assignment – now that health regions have been given their mandate for this year. We also have a foot in the ground sometimes in terms of reviewing the assignment letters. We see this in the context of the system we have for new methods, but also in the context of the desire to obtain more clinical studies and ensure good participation across the country for patients who may be involved in clinical studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3375	The premise on changes to the Expert Panel – that decision-making should be moved – I then understand that the Council of State will continue to base, and there has been a broad consensus on this in Stortinget as well. However, the RHFs propose inter alia: In its reply that the patient should first receive an optimal assessment in his own region before the enquiry is sent to the Expert Panel, and as Dagens Medisin has previously written, among others. the expert panel leader concerned that it could lead to silage of requests to the panel. It's a concern I share. Then the question is, how does the Council of State address this? Will the Council of State go in to support such a proposal by the RHFs, which may initially restrict patients' opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3380	I think it's drawn a little bit more distance than what's happening here, because it's an important prerequisite that you have a good assessment of the treatment available in your own health region, where it's the treating doctor who's responsible, and that it's part of the process. Then I hear the statements of the head of the Expert Panel, who is concerned about a sibling, and that is a concern. I do not immediately see that it should be a different assessment. I read the health regions' proposals for improvements, a more thorough assessment of what exists, before possibly going to the Expert Panel and being referred to for an assessment. We're going to look at all the proposals and evaluate them continuously, and then this is going to be an advisory function.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3385	PricewaterhouseCoopers writes in their report that they want a legal clarification in view of the patient's right to have an evaluation of the Expert Panel. Will the Council of State request such a legal clarification or assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3390	There is nothing that we have assessed for the time being. In an advisory function, the right to be assessed is not the right either. It is then the assessment of the healthcare provider and the treating physician and it must be such that the treatment offered is sound. If the Expert Panel proposes a different type of treatment, it is not automatic that the treatment given by the responsible doctor and the local health care provider is irresponsible. Here we need to be able to separate, and within the role of advisory function, we want to look at improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3395	What's interesting is that after the State Council replied to the committee, the Cancer Association has seen a need to comment further on the Council's response, and that's not normal. What I want to challenge the Council of State very clearly and clearly, and I hope she can respond specifically, is the concern that is now expressed that it is the individual hospital and hospital economy that is crucial. I hear more people in this room have commented that it is a doctor, a treating doctor, etc. Yes, it is also a treating doctor who has forwarded a request to and asked for advice from the Expert Panel, which assesses tried-and-tested treatment that is not the normal treatment. Then my question is, is it that there is an economy that will be allowed to be critical of whether you are being treated or not at the individual hospital? There is a difference in treatment, depending on where in the country you are, because it is the relative ones who have to decide not to say clearly that if you get a recommendation from the Expert Panel, you have to follow it up. It would be given equal treatment for everyone across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3404	It follows that the Expert Panel has an advisory function, and they have had it all since it was established. It has been the framework for their work. Otherwise, we have a system to integrate active therapies into the entire healthcare system called Decision Forum for new methods. In addition, this government wants to raise the number of clinical studies, so that there may also be an opportunity for those who come from the districts and have a local hospital company that is not necessarily a university hospital where there are many clinical studies. Equal access to therapies is ensured through the ordinary systems. What the expert panel does is to advise on alternatives when the tried and tested therapies do not help the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3411	I'm recording that it looks like there's "Tause Birgitte" in the hall today with regard to the challenges I had to the other parties in Stortinget. However, I believe that the four questions are equally relevant to the Council of State, which is responsible. So this is about people who see the last opportunity to get help, and where it's said that you might have a year to live again. There are people who are in a very serious and difficult situation, and their relatives. The questions I have to ask the Council of State too are: Is that the advice of the panel of experts that you do not trust? Is that the Cancer Association? Is the doctor recommending the medicine? Or is that the patient even you don't trust? I hope someone can soon answer that. I've challenged the Workers' Party. I didn't get to meet the state council in New Year's Day 18. I met a representative, but he did not answer those questions either, so the challenge now goes to the Minister of Health about answering this on behalf of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3418	The question of who you trust and who you don't, probably the representative has to sort at his own expense. We have an expert panel that has a framework for their work, which issues to assess, and how they can advise on alternatives to the known therapies that are no longer effective for the patients concerned. That is the framework for this system. Then we have an evaluation that points to some adjustments and some further developments to make it work better. These patients should be treated very seriously with the best available skills and opportunities, but I would also like to say that it is equally serious to give unrealistic expectations to people in such a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3423	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3441	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3448	First, I would like to thank the Committee, which always works very constructively and well with all the matters that the Committee has to deal with. So also in this case. In our remarks, we write very clearly how we want to give honey together and praise everyone in the Norwegian healthcare service for the great effort that has been made over the last – quite precisely – two years, where our society has been hit by a very demanding pandemic. As the proposers point out, the pressure on healthcare as a whole has been high, and measures and restrictions in society have been largely based on what our overall health service can tolerate. The Committee held a written hearing on the matter and one hearing was held in the written hearing. I'm now going to go over to explain my own party, Right, view on the matter, and I'm counting on the members of the committee to explain the positions of their respective parties. Just in front of the pandemic, at the end of 2019, a report, commissioned by the government of Solberg, came from a working group composed of representatives of the four regional health enterprises, which made up their status, described the challenge and gave a future perspective on the intensive capacity in Norway. That report was clear. There is a need to increase intensive capacity by 25-30 pst. until 2040, according to that review. So the pandemic came, and it's important for us in the Right to emphasize that there was a lot of work going on to increase capacity in the short term. The number of respirators increased from 700 to 1,100. 3100 employees in Norwegian hospitals went through internal training in providing intensive treatment to covid-19 patients, and private and non-profit hospitals have been an important part of the preparedness. The most important thing when the pandemic hit was to deal with the short-term solutions that gave us the opportunity to deal with a high pressure in intensive settings during the pandemic. In the long term, the Right considers that there is a need to increase permanent capacity. It showed the report that we ordered and got delivered in 2019, and we also started that work in government by training – yes, fortunately 131 new intensive nurses of a bet we wanted, of 100.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3463	The president assumes that...?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3468	...that the representative would like to address the Right-wing proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3473	Then the representative, Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen, took up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3478	Norway's intensive capacity has been at rest for ten years. We are not particularly well off in terms of intensive beds if we compare ourselves with other Western European countries. This is a challenge that we see in both normal and crisis times, which we have been through in the last two years. The Coronapandemy has undoubtedly led us all to have our eyes on intensive capacity. But then we should also remember that an increasing number of older people are a key factor in strengthening the need for intensive capacity investment in the future. It is not just pandemic and crisis preparedness that we should have in mind, although of course it should also be safeguarded. Let it be clear: the Workers' Party-Center Party government takes this seriously, and we ensure intensive capacity both in normal time and in times of crisis. We are working on raising capacity, and we are already taking action in the short and long term to achieve this goal. With additional propositions, crisis packages and increased basic funding, we have already enabled priorities of intensive capacity and preparedness. We are pleased that the Council of State in this year's mission letter to hospitals has asked health regions to increase their intensive capacity, especially in hospitals that have been particularly vulnerable. We have also taken action to increase the number of intensive nurses. For 2022 it is granted 64 million. SEK 200 new training positions for specialist nurses, including: in intensive care. The government also increases the admission capacity of the university and higher education sector for nurse training by 500 places of study from the autumn of 2022. Among these we will find many nurses who dream of entering intensive care into the future, and we will make those dreams attractive to realize. The Government has also appointed a Health Personnel Commission. It shall provide a comprehensive and knowledge-based assessment of the need for the personnel and competences we have up to 2040, and propose appropriate measures to train, recruit and maintain qualified personnel in the health and care sector. I share the impatience of the proposers in increasing their intensive capacity, and I am proud that we in the government have got a lot in a short time. It shows action and a change in course for our common healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3493	After two years of pandemic, we have really seen the pressure on the Norwegian health care system, Norwegian health professionals and, in particular, my own profession, the nurses. The pandemic has highlighted the need for professionals. The government has already increased its capacity to expand more nurses with 500 study places. 300 of these are funded with fresh funds. This does not address the challenges in the Norwegian health care system, but for the autumn, 5100 students can start nursing. More people are given the opportunity to become nurses, and Norway is given a greater share of the need for health care professionals. Already before the pandemic we lack health professionals here in the country. In 2019 there are 4 500 nurses and 1 100 specialist nurses missing. If we are to increase capacity, it is important to increase the number of intensive caregivers and special caregivers. In addition to 131 new training courses for intensive nurses in 2021, the Workers' Party-Center Party-Registration provided 25 million in the fall. DKK in the 2022 budget to establish at least 30 new training options for specialised nurses. In the Sukepleiarförbundet of the representative proposal, they draw. mobilising health professionals working in other industries, such as myself, today. The Medical Association believes that there are about 700 intensive nurses who work in other professions. I am pleased that the government, soon after it has been introduced, started its work, set up a Health Care Commission, and that the government is clear that one of their main objectives is to ensure that enough professionals with the right skills in the health and care services. If we are to be able to strengthen the Norwegian health system in the future, we must train, recruit, retain and mobilise qualified professionals. It will be an important job in the future that I am happy that the government has started. A Health Personnel Commission has been set up to deliver a NOU by 1 February 2023. In addition, I would like to mention the trust reform, which is to ensure that you have a job to do with what you’re working on, and that there should be less paperwork – a so-called red tape reform. Today’s government is clear that the public health service should ensure day-to-day preparedness and security and access to high-quality healthcare where necessary. Intensive capacity is an important part of this. In the Hurdal platform, it says among other things: that the government will increase the intensity capacity. I think there is no doubt about what the government wants, and that readiness and intensive capacity are high on the agenda. A thorough work is in progress, and while waiting for the NOU to join the Health Commission, distributions in health companies on future needs for intensive capacity, work in the Corona Commission on intensive preparedness, as well as the trust reform, the Centre Party and I believe it is unwise to initiate parallel processes, which will happen if the proposals in the proposal for a representative are adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3510	I hope to bind my mouth, shut it down, 1 meter and home office is something that belongs to the past. Nevertheless, it is important that we take lessons from the past and make sure to be better rusted in the future if there is to be a new pandemic, or if there is a new and more dangerous variant of the coronavirus. Because what's been the consequence of the pandemic is burned out nurses, overtime and blasted hospital capacity. We need more and more nurses, but we still don't have the pay in terms of the amount of work. We have heard about nurses who have worked long days in one drive, and yet many of them sit with a bad conscience after work because they feel that they have not been done enough. It's heartbreaking to hear, and we can't have it like that. Nurses need better pay, and they need more colleagues. This is why the Progress Party proposes to raise the salary for nurses and health professionals by 3 percentage points in addition to regular wage increases, as well as offering 2 500 new nursing places. Intensive capacity has been an indication of how open we have been to keep society. The lesson is that the intensive capacity is too low. We need a long-term plan to build up the intensive capacity so that we are better rusted if a new pandemic sweeps over us. We also need to bring back some of the 700 intensive nurses who have found other professions to work in, in which we really should have had under the pandemic, and which we think it is important to strengthen in the future. I have to say I'm getting a little tired of the left side, which is going to go to war with private actors at any time. During the wave in winter, private operators had free capacity, but the government and Kjerkol choose to let the queue grow rather than make use of the available capacity available to private people. In fact, I think that the ideological fanatics in the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and Red should go a little by themselves, because if not private people had assisted both in hospitals and in community care services, these would have kneeled early in the pandemic. I think everyone should read the chronicle of Anita Tunold in Aleris in today's business. It puts some things in perspective. The recommendation from the pandemic is that we've got a long Kjerkol queue that the private actors are still willing to cut down, but yet the ideologically controlled government will not take responsibility and use the available capacity for the benefit of all the sick who need help and who are actually in line for treatment. I would like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party on the matter and the proposals we are in favour of. I believe that exploiting and using all the private will and wishes to contribute to providing patients with the best possible service offer is something that everyone should be aware of, so that you can bring down the queues and people are treated and healthy. There should be something everyone in this room was concerned about -- not who does it and the systems, but that people actually get treatment. Therefore, the choice of treatment is important and the use of the free private capacity. They help, they help take tops, and they make sure to help patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3525	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals he referred to. The President will make it clear that there were a few words and expressions that were at least at the limit of what we consider to be parliamentary expressions in the Chamber, so it might be possible to choose other expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3532	The fact that there is a low intensive capacity in Norwegian hospitals has been notified by the trade unions over many years. Several of the country's hospitals had full intensive wards long before the Corona arrived. Norway has lower intensities than the average of OECD countries, and I note that the professional community estimates that 50 pst. increase could have been a good start. It is commendable that the Progress Party wants to strengthen its intensive capacity, but at the same time it is fascinating – now I record that the representative of the Progress Party has left the Chamber – that after many years in government and responsible for the adopted state budget, the party sees the need to propose a crisis package for parts of the Norwegian health system. It was a notified crisis before the Koron came, and if the Progress Party had done its job in government, the intensive capacity crisis could probably have been avoided. Our trip to Sweden taught us a lot about how privatization led to the care of the elderly, so when the representative Hoksrud refers to private actors and how important they are, responsible powdering and privatisation over a low shoe can also lead to challenges for our common health care system. But I'm proud of the Progress Party, because I think we all need to join the team, and this proposal gives us the opportunity to look at what the government has actually planned. The Council of State writes to the Committee that the Department is carrying out an ongoing investigation. SV is very impatient. We don't have much time, and the professionals can make clear recommendations about solutions. We have to be able to combine the focus on the long-term solutions, such as: to increase educational capacity, with rapid close-to-down solutions. We're going to recruit, but first of all, we're going to keep the people we have. Nurses and doctors are exhausted, and applause helps little. A nearby measure is to strengthen support staff around nurses and doctors, so that professionals can be used for what they are trained for. In particular, there is reason to strike a blow for health professionals. I want to say from this pulpit that Kjerkol's big representative had a lot of offensive suggestions here in the house that I would like to see that the Council of State Kjerkol is following up. At least we in SV appreciated that, and we're impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3546	The lack of intensive capacity is, as I said, a well-appointed crisis. Already during the swine flu in 2009, the warning lights started to flash. In the wake of the conclusions of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness that the pandemic plan needs to be revised, and that more attention should be paid to intensive capacity than in the current plan. But the increase in intensive capacity has seen little more. Norway is among the countries of Europe with the lowest intensive capacity compared to the number of inhabitants. The National Audit Office carried out a survey of the manning situation of nurses, midwives and specialised nurses in 2019. They concluded that health businesses face major challenges in recruiting and maintaining health professionals. They found that almost three out of four intensive departments have job vacancies, and that almost 20 pst. of the intensive care units were over 60 years of age. At the same time, it was less educated. Instead of addressing the situation, the holes in the watchbooks were covered by hired temporary workers through private recruitment agencies. It's short-term thinking that makes you less prepared. We saw this quite clearly in March two years ago, when there was an immediate manning crisis in the entire health care system, especially in intense terms, because the borders were closed and the temporary workers were not coming. It's good that there are now more to be trained, but that's not enough. We have hundreds of intensive nurses, thousands of nurses and health professionals who don't work like that anymore. We have to have a health care system that manages to keep the people, and when we ask them to come back, it can't be a greater burden than the one they left. Under the pandemic, we've seen politicians agree that we need better intensive capacity. That is good, but two years later we still have not clear the necessary increase. Experience shows again that we need political management of hospitals based on needs, not on business-economy models. With the model of health enterprises, policymakers have taken control of health business governance, which has instructions to deliver a tight budget in balance. This saves, among other things, by keeping the manning low and the expensive intensification sites down to a minimum. It's not steering by the bottom line, but strengthening the preparedness with democratic governance we need in the future. The pandemic has underlined the importance of good hospital capacity and health care, and taking care of those who work in healthcare is the most important investment we make. The pandemic has taught us that we have to stop playing the store. This time I hope that we will learn and show it in practice in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3561	Of course, intensive capacity is always important, and the pandemic has shown us a time when it is particularly important, because we have simply driven and dimensioned the freedom of society after the size of the intensive capacity of hospitals – and it is a great seriousness around it. The reason why I take the floor is what strikes me with the debate here, that it all talks about, is to train more, more nurses, more resources. Of course, it can't hurt, it would be very good. But I still wonder if that's the main challenge. The reason why I'm asking that question is that Norway is the country in the OECD that has most nurses per capita, we have almost most lizards, we already have most of the population employed in the health sector, and yet many other countries are able to have a much better intensive capacity than us. Then it strikes me: Could it be that the challenge is not only money, but also organisation? And there's no talk about it so far in the debate, but I might hope that the Council of State will come up with that. If you look at a fairly neighboring country to compare with, namely Sweden, which is a country that has fewer nurses than us, who spend less money than us, and who have fewer bodies, they have better intensive capacity. And they can get the intensive capacity with half as many intensive nurses per place. Of course, they may be offering a terriblely bad offer, but I don't think so. What has been pointed out as the difference between us and them is not money use, but that one in Sweden operates with other types of rotational arrangements – that is interesting – and not least that one has put many more health professionals in place in intensive care departments, while one in Norway uses a lot of nurses. I would like us to work in these debates, when we are now working for a common goal of raising intensive capacity – and that is what we need – that we are not just talking about educating more people and spending more money. We have to do that, it's fine, it started our government with, and it does the government now. But that we're also talking about these issues of organization, because it's easy to point out money challenges, and that's kind of always the simple political thing to talk about. But I'm not overconfident that it's always the main challenge. I don't think at least we're going to talk about getting up the intensive capacity, not just permanently, but having a system that allows one to rig it up quickly temporarily. That's what we saw the need for under the pandemic, and that need can come back. We can't operate with a permanent overcapacity, but we have to be able to rig up fast. Organisation is not least important then. And how can you organise alternative situations in crisis situations? We've seen some of it under the pandemic, one has taken some grips, something reorganization in hospitals has worked. But there has to be a lot more to do, and I hope we can discuss more in these debates, and maybe the Council of State can come up with that in its article.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3574	The government has shown that we need to increase intensive capacity. There shall be a robust permanent capacity that tackles natural variation and a flexibility in capacity to be able to scale up rapidly if necessary – the last of which was concerned – as in larger emergency situations of shorter or longer duration. Such capacity depends on increased basic funding and more professionals. It's a work we're already doing. I agree with the representatives that we need action both in the short and longer term to achieve the objectives of intensive capacity, and therefore the processes are in progress to achieve this. For 2022 it is granted 64 million. SEK 200 new training positions for specialist nurses, including: intensive care. From the autumn of 2022, the admission capacity for nursing training shall be increased by 500 places and intensive care shall be given priority. The Government has also appointed a Health Personnel Commission. It shall provide a comprehensive and knowledge-based assessment of the needs of personnel and competences up to 2040, and then propose appropriate measures to train, recruit and maintain qualified personnel in the health and care sector. As an important short-term measure, hospital funding has increased, initially by 700 million. kr above the level of the Solberg Government and then by a further 1.5 billion. kr, which contributes to the prioritisation of key functions such as preparedness and intensive capacity. In this year's mission document, I have asked health regions to increase their intensive capacity and, in particular, to give priority to hospitals that have had high coverage over time. I have also asked health regions to assess health professionals’ needs and skills-enhancing measures to create flexibility in treatment capacity and to relieve intensive care. In addition, I have asked that they acquire knowledge and experience on the organisation of intensive capacity from other countries as well. Studies are already ongoing in the health regions on the future need for intensive capacity, and the Corona Commission will assess the need for intensive preparedness when providing its final report in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3585	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3590	I notice that the government is funding new educational positions through a crisis package. It's in the Inst. 119 S for 2021-2022. Will the Council of State guarantee that this will be followed up by the government in the ordinary budgets in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3597	We're doing both of these. We also have an increase in educational positions in the supplemental letter that came after the Solberg government presented its Prop. 1, so we do both. Education positions are something that binds resources over several years, it's not a race we've been planning to start up and then scale down. We have a growing need for health professionals, and access to professionals is one of the top priorities of the government and my department. This is also seen in the chapters dealing with health in the Hurdal platform. The tasks are to organise, train and recruit professionals for the needs of healthcare. In addition, it's important that we manage to keep the ones we have. Unfortunately, much experience is lost by the fact that specialist nurses work in other sectors. I'm sorry, and it also needs our attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3606	In her contribution, she mentioned the strengthening of the hospitals granted by the Støre government in addition to the State budget of 700 million. kr. I'll ignore 1.3 billion. kr, which must be described as corona crisis agents. So it's 332 million. NOK 700 million. kr to strengthen the basic allocation of the RHFs. Both the Council of State and the Prime Minister have used these funds in arguments. The Council of State has said that she will give priority to intensive capacity, priority to preparedness and priority to mental health. The Prime Minister has said that it should be used to strengthen care and mental health, to reduce waiting times and to resume the process. What promises will the Council of State cancel? How are you going to be able to do all of this for 332 million? Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3613	The budget for our hospitals is 150 billion. kr, and it is used in all the areas referred to by the representative Wilhelmsen Trøen. When reference was made to the strengthening added to the Solberg government budget by the Big Government, half of the increased basic funding was provided. Basic funding makes it possible to prioritise emergency services in hospitals. The activity-based funding depends on the activity, on the planned treatment going as it should, while the response functions, such as acute, food and not least intensive, depend on a more robust basic funding. Then, in addition, we have strengthened the low threshold of mental health. It is in addition to the appropriations from the hospital budget. So exactly what promises Wilhelmsen Trøen has caught up and not, is a little difficult for me to account for, but that's what the budget looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3618	The background to the question is, of course, that when you meet the Council of State or others in debate, you are very concerned that this new government has strengthened the basic funding of hospitals. So that's going to be 0.4 pst. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the hospital budget and the health budget are large. My point is to ask the Council of State if it is right for this increase to be able to reduce both waiting times, focus more on mental health protection in hospitals, provide more preparedness and, in addition, strengthen intensive capacity – for these 332 million. kr, or 0,4 pst., drawn by the Labour Party in debates, especially when we have discussed intensive capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3623	This government has entrusted the health regions with the task of using the entire budget. I think it was also the purpose of the Solberg government to bring down the waiting times, and to strengthen efforts aimed at mental health and alcohol. I've heard representatives from the Troe Party say that too. The aim is to use the entire health budget for these reinforcements. When we show direction, it's based on the fact that there's a political disagreement between the government parties and those who have previously ruled in how we fund the hospitals, and how we weigh basic funding. The red-green government had a fifty-fifty distribution between the activity-based funding and what is basic funding. So my predecessors and the Solberg government chose to weigh it differently, with larger elements of activity-based funding. We believe it does not equip us for the important emergency services all the hospitals have, and that is why we have shown direction in the supplemental letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3630	I record that the Minister of Health is still negative about letting the private actors relieve the public health system. In crisis situations such as the contagion peaks in the coronary apathy, extraordinary resources are needed, and private individuals have really set up and shown what they are good for. They've set up. Nevertheless, the Minister of Health believes that the use of private actors is a practice. I believe that the Minister of Health has ideological skylights, and that it is rational to make use of the available capacity. In the case of any new infection peaks and with high entry rates: how will the Council of State solve this, and from where will it pick up the extraordinary resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3638	I think it's best if the government and the state council get to explain what the government and the state council think, because when the Progress Party does, it's actually wrong. Health regions use very much private through agreements, and we want them to be as long as possible. We also want ideals to be able to get through so-called framework agreements. So this ideological cloud-and-label debate I don't think is really messed up. It is such that a year ago the Progress Party negotiated with the then government about RNB and wanted to use private people to get away from queues. Nor was it anything my predecessor considered useful and effective for Norwegian patients. So I think that's a little bit of a remote approach. There's no private sector ready to storm in to get out of line. The world isn't like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3643	Is it really the case that the Minister for Health believes it makes more sense to employ people in temporary posts in a situation of crisis than it is to use the available capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3648	The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3653	Thanks to the Council of State for the article and a good deal about the situation. There's a lot of positive happening, and it's very good. I also think it is good that the Council of State in the work being done, as she said in her article, will look at the way in which a person organises this in other countries. I believe that is absolutely necessary, even my own post and the great discrepancy we see between resource use and achievement between Norway and other countries. I really hope one goes into that. As far as I have been able to read up, at least in the intensive departments around very large differences in capacity on weekdays and weekends, and that there is partly an overstaffing on weekdays – then a time spent on some things other than patient treatment – and understaffing on weekends. The question is whether there is a correct impression. Is there a proper presentation of the status out there in our hospitals? Is there anything you can do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3660	The claim of the great discrepancy between resource use and results between us and other countries, I think, is statements that are made on behalf of Rotary Water. Nor is it the case that an intensive site is an intensive site anywhere, nor in Norway, nor when we compare ourselves with other countries. What's important is that we have a good capacity in everyday life. It is also important to be aware that the need for intensive treatment is also increasing in a normal situation, as a result of an ageing population, and that a lot of scheduled surgery is taking place. Intensive treatment is for those patients who have one or more vital organs that are failing. It's human resources because it's important to monitor the patient, and I very much agree with the representative, Rotevatten, that we need to look at how we can use several types of skills to care for this part of the treatment. Some hospitals do that, which I should have liked to have said more about, but I have used up my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3667	It is a positive signal that the Council of State wants to use other types of competence, for example: health professionals, we're sure. I think that's a great potential. There is at least a very clear difference between Norway and our neighbouring countries in the way this is organised – there is no doubt about it. That there's an increasing standard need is probably right. I was in my post, too, that we need to raise the overall intensive capacity, not just the crisis capacity. But despite the fact that the Council of State wasted its time, she did not answer my question, so I would like to ask it again. As far as I've been able to understand, it's partly an overstaffing on weekdays and a understaffing on weekends in our intensive care units. Then, of course, it is the weekends that are dimensioning the preparedness, because the preparedness must be there anyway. So the question is, Is there a proper presentation that the main challenge is on weekends? If so, what can one do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3678	It is a challenge for all 24-7 services — hospitals, fire and rescue — that weekends should be closed, that ordinary workers want to be free, and that nurses do not want to work every weekend. But I don't give a stamp of approval that the situation is that you go with overstaffing in much of the everyday life, and that it is most demanding during the weekends. This probably also varies in Norwegian hospitals. If I have the opportunity to say a little bit more about the use of other types of staff, I will refer to the Hospital Østfold and the Faculty of Sciences, which have education in intensive medicine at the vocational school level, i.e. a further training course for health professionals, which is very helpful in relieving intensive nurses in that part of the service. I think we need to look more at the kind of solutions to mobilise the resources we need to have a good capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3685	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3692	I have learned not to talk about people who are not present, but it is a bit demanding when the representative Hoksrud leaves the room. That's why I have to do it anyway. ‘Ideology fanatics’, ‘Kjerkol-koe’ – we can have a little of the vocabulary, but I’ll be honest: Had my kids said this, they would have been packed. Then I've just said it. My question to the representative Hoksrud is simply: How can there be more nurses because there are more players? In my head, the nurses will then have to jump faster where they are. I look forward to that clarification when Hoksrud comes back to the hall. To the representative Rotevatn: Yes, it is quite right that we should look at the organisation in both Norway and abroad. The Committee has just been on its way to Sweden, and they look at Norway. So I think we have to be careful just to look at the numbers. We have to go into it more thoroughly, both in terms of resource use and task allocation. I know that the Council of State does. There's also a commission put down to do that. We're also going to follow it up close from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3701	The President thanked me for supporting the reference I had to the representative Hoksrud on words and expressions. Several have not signed up for case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3721	The case of the Fosen wind power plant was first involved by the Sami parties in an intervention case in the Supreme Court by referring to the human rights. In 2010, the NVE decided to grant concession to the Roan and Storheia wind turbines at Fosen in Trøndelag. Wind power expansion was to take place within the Fosen Reibeite district, the area of two Siidas, the South Fosen sitje and the North Fosen siida. Although the reindeer siidae considered that the extension would infringe their rights to cultural exploitation, the Ministry of Oil and Energy maintained the concession decision. They authorised a legal process for expropriation and compensation, and compensation was granted to cohabitation, a replacement by the State of Statnet agreed to continue in the legal system to reduce the compensation, and the department joined as a party aid afterwards. In October 2021, the Supreme Court unanimously concluded that the decision on the concession for wind power development on the Fosen was invalid and constituted a breach of Article 27 of the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, also known as SP 27, to which Norway is bound by the Law of Human Rights. The expansion threatened the existence of reindeer farming on the Fosen and violated the rights of reindeer management on the Fosen and their ability to practice culture. This was a great and historic loss for the state in the courtroom. Wind power development on the Fosen has already been completed, and the situation is, therefore, that a large extension has been authorised and implemented which has proved to be invalid and contrary to human rights. The wind power plant makes traditional reprocessing on the Fosen very difficult, not to say impossible, to preserve its culture, and the reindeer operation is still in an unexplained situation. A week ago, the Sametinget strongly objected to the fact that the wind turbines have not yet been brought down, and it is reasonable to expect that government and administration will take effective action to prevent such international expansions from happening again. In the Supreme Court judgment, the importance of other measures affecting reindeer management in the area, both previously and planned, and that the development of Storheia and Roan had to be seen in the context of these. Furthermore, the Supreme Court stressed that the rights of minorities to exercise their culture under SP 27, i.e. civil and political rights, cannot be set up and weighted against other societal considerations in the manner that has taken place. At the same time, we know that reindustrial sites in the country are now facing similar situations, where the existing and future development of roads, cabins, mines and wind turbines with their infrastructure, such as roads, restricts their land base, and where the consideration of the cultural performance of reindeers is placed against the interests of jobs and economic activity, what we often know as ‘social economic benefits’. The Land-based wind power notification provides for strengthening the local and regional anchoring of wind power development. It is very good to want to strengthen local influence, but the question is what driving rules the municipalities and other parts of the administration, such as the state administrator, should be dealing with now. Norway's human rights institution points to the need for clarification and regulation that can help to clarify the threshold of civil and political rights and their enforcement, and that is what I and Red support. So my question and my challenge to the Council of State is, what will the Council of State do to ensure that human rights are not broken into land issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3738	Paragraph 108 of the Constitution requires the state authorities to facilitate the preservation and development of their language, culture and social life by the Sami peoples. The Interpellant addresses issues related to Article 27 of the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, referred to as SP 27. The SP Article 27 is important in spatial matters, as it guarantees the right of ethnic minorities, inter alia. to cultivate their own culture. This includes the right to engage in traditional activities. Purification is such a traditional industry for the Sami population. SP 27 is governed by the Norwegian law by the Law on Human Rights, and the provisions of the Convention are preceded by the second Norwegian law in the event of any conflict. All legislation relating to land-related matters must therefore be applied in accordance with Article SP 27. In the assessment of SP Article 27, the authorities shall focus on several elements based on the practices of the UN Committee on Human Rights. A significant element is whether the right of minorities to effective participation in the decision-making process is fulfilled through consultations with the minority interests concerned. State, regional and municipal authorities shall make concrete and thorough assessments of the impact of the relevant actions on human rights. In land use matters, the assessments shall also include the total impact of all measures in the area concerned. The Planning and Building Act is our most important law for land management. A number of considerations shall be taken into account by the planning authority, including: in order to ensure the human rights obligations of Norway. The planning shall include, inter alia: facilitate the preservation of the natural basis of Sami culture, business interests and social life. The planning process shall thus contribute to ensuring that the SP Article 27 is not infringed. Impact studies are an essential part of the knowledge base for authorities when deciding on land use. The handling of matters under the Planning and Building Act, the Energy Act and several other Land Use Acts shall follow the rules on impact assessment. In addition, the laws have their own rules that aim to ensure the participation of interested parties. In addition, provisions on consultations aimed at ensuring the participation of the Sami interests have been laid down by law in the Law on Cooperation. The principles were also followed earlier by ILO Convention No. 169, but is now directly regulated by Norwegian law. On 1 July 2021, the Ministry of Local and District Affairs issued a separate guide to municipalities and counties on consultations with Sami interests. I would also like to mention that the Sametinget and the state administrators as the reindeer management authority have the right to object to matters under the Planning and Building Act and the Energy Act. These and interested parties have the right to appeal on a case-by-case basis. I would like, among other things: also mentioned that both the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy have, following thorough assessments of international law, rejected a number of requests for concessions under the Energy Act in the light of Sami clean-up operations. In specific cases, the courts have given instructions as to which assessments are essential for the infringement of Article 27 of the SP. This also applies to the instructions given by the High Court in the so-called Fosen case. These matters are important to learn from. As I see it, it is important to raise knowledge of the obligations of human rights in land matters in all parts of the administration. The Ministry of Local and District Affairs is working closely with the sectoral departments to improve coordination through spatial planning. The inclusion of wind planning and the construction of wind power in the Law on Planning and Building will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3766	Thank you very much for your answer. I would also like to stress what the Council of State has to say, namely that the Fosen judgment is serious. It shows that Sami rights have been violated and infringed and that the reindeer owners have not been heard. The dialogue and involvement to be ensured by the management has not worked properly. Then we've also got a law that emphasizes that human rights cannot be disregarded in land issues, as we've seen in the Fosen case. I would also like to stress that this is a question of legal certainty. When the Council of State then draws up impact assessments to ensure that rights are respected in the context of developments that may conflict with human rights, I get a little worried. My experience with impact assessments is that there is usually a builder who delivers the impact assessments, that a third party receives an order from a builder, and that is why decisions are taken. We have seen that in connection with e.g. Fördefjorden and a number of other places. I have my doubts as to whether it ensures real independence. There has also been a recurring issue in wind power concessions. I would like to challenge the Council of State to respond to how such impact assessments can effectively provide an independent assessment of developments that also take on human rights, which cannot be weighed in the same way as other so-called socio-economic considerations. It's also interesting to hear that there's going to be a separate supervisor. I would like to see a deepening of what that supervisor implies, which agencies of the administration are going to deal with that supervisor. I would also like to stress once again that the Fosen judgment shows how wrong things can be when the competence of Norway's obligations under human rights is not good enough, and that ensuring legal certainty is so important that it has to be followed in administration practice, so that everyone can have their rights recognised.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3777	First of all, there is the question of consultation: there is guidance related to new provisions on consultations, to which I referred in my article. It is such that international law requires the Norwegian authorities to consult Sami interests in matters that may directly affect those interests. The State must provide for appropriate consultation procedures irrespective of the level of administration that decides on the case. Last year the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg decided that provisions on consultations with Sami interests should be included as a new chapter of the Law on Social Security. Then, as I mentioned, there is also a supervisor who should be used, not least, by local authorities in the specific follow-up to the obligation of consultation. Then I would also like to say that in terms of impact assessments, there is something that, among other things, is governed by the Law on Planning and Building, and there are precisely provisions to ensure that all the different interests are lit up in the best possible way. It is also, as we have been told, that there is now work going on to ensure that wind power development issues can also be addressed in terms of land clearances – there is still a concession process under the Energy Act, but they should be dealt with under the Planning and Building Act. It also allows local authorities to set requirements for impact assessments in a way that ensures that the interests they want are covered. I would also like to say that there are a number of processes and measures already in place to ensure the Sami interests of land use interventions, also beyond what has been highlighted so far in these interventions. For example, in addition to consultation procedures included in the Law on Cooperation, this is the Mineral Law Committee, which, following its mandate, shall propose how Norway’s international obligations towards co-workers may be included in the Mineral Law by means of specific procedural rules, or, as mentioned above, with the amendment following the notification of wind power. There shall also be an Transparency Act, which shall enter into force on 1 July 2022, requiring major establishments planning major actions in Sami applications to make careful assessments of the actual and potential negative impact on basic human rights, including SP 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3786	I've been a municipal politician for ten years, so in many ways it's a dream for me to have an exchange with a municipal minister. That's why I'm also worried about putting so much trust in these impact assessments, as I know that in practice very often outsources to developers. We've seen that in a number of wind turbines. What happens then is that different considerations are weighed against each other, and the consideration of the human rights of Sami reindeer owners is not taken care of. That's the Fosen judgment, a talking example of -- a very sad example of it. The merger is not satisfied with how this case has been followed up, because it has not been followed up. I'm not going to bother the mayor too much about that, but I mention it because when I was a local politician and put in a sample for environmental and urban development, we had a rule, which I think is also the rule for the planning and building law, namely that you don't get forgiveness, you should have permission. What this Supreme Court judgment has stated is that the permission to build wind power on the Fosen was not valid on the basis of the interests of reindeer husbandry and the human rights that they actually have for their own cultural purposes. So it's not enough to refer to guides and impact assessments if we don't really guarantee human rights in land issues in the future. And I hope that the municipal minister takes it even more seriously, even though both the Transparency Act and such a counsellor in and of themselves sound good.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3793	After all, I tried to find out that there were a number of initiatives and actions that together will help to ensure that this gets a good follow-up, not just with impact assessments. That is why I just pointed out the consultation obligation that has come to work on the mandate of the Mineral Law Committee and on the Transparency Act, the follow-up to the change in the Energy Act and the Planning and Building Act following the Storing Communication. So there are a number of things that together are going to contribute to the proper care of the Sami interests in land issues. However, for impact assessments, I have to say that the assessment of the requirements for an impact assessment, and whether such an investigation has been carried out correctly, is to be carried out by the authority to take decisions. Although an investigation is carried out by the applicant, the investigation is subject to requirements, and if the investigation has been carried out in a good enough manner, it is also assessed by the decision maker. Consultations are conducted on what to investigate and on the subsequent investigation. There, the professional authorities concerned and other interested parties may make their views known. It is therefore a comprehensive procedure that forms the basis, even when carrying out these types of impact assessments. There is nothing that a builder or action holder can do only for its own part and then complete it; there are a number of requirements and it is to be assessed by those taking the decisions. And then we're going to look at how both the Department and the Environment Directorate can further improve the guidance material also for those procedures, so that we ensure that this is done in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3802	The debate on case 15 is thus closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3820	North Norway is important to our country. It's a part of the country that has 80 pst. of Norway’s sea area, and a part of the country that has important natural resources such as energy, minerals, nature and seafood. It's natural resources we're going to make good use of, so that we can create new industries and jobs that in turn contribute to tax revenue so that we can maintain good welfare services for people. Although North Norway has many opportunities, North Norway also has many challenges – challenges we need to solve if we are to be able to go from opportunity to reality. Since the 2000s, the population in northern Norway has increased by over 20,000 new inhabitants, but in recent years we have seen a decline in population development. This is due to several factors, including: that urbanisation in Norway — as in the rest of the world — is strong, but also that we have had less labour immigration, which was reinforced by the coronary apathy. North Norway needs people living in the part of the country, and with the new security policy situation we are now experiencing in the world after our neighbouring country Russia went to war with Ukraine, it is more important than ever for us to manage both to exploit the opportunities and to assert our sovereignty in the north. NHO Arctic figures show that two out of three companies in North Norway do not get the professionals they need, and even more will be lacking in the future. It is serious, because if companies do not have sufficient skilled labour, companies will not be allowed to develop and exploit the potential of North Norway. Then we need a school policy that ensures that more people complete high school, that we strengthen the professions so that they become more attractive, and that we develop more relevant and decentralised education services. In short: North Norway needs people – and people with the right skills. In early February, Prime Minister Jonas Gahr spoke in Tromsø about government policy to develop North Norway. There was a speech with many fine words and serious issues that I can also put behind me, but there was a speech completely without concrete action for what the government wants with North Norway, and how the government intends to develop North Norway. It is also not very clear in the Hurdal platform of the government. The most concrete thing we have seen from the government so far in the case of North Norway is that businesses have to pay even more in taxes, which means that they have less to invest in new and more jobs; the reversal of a number of reforms, which will contribute to more and not less bureaucracy for people; and lower ambitions for the school, by lowering the requirements for good teachers, to mention some measures. That's also why I've promoted this interpellation, in order to know more clearly and specifically what the government wants with North Norway. In the autumn of 2020, the Solberg Government presented the Northern Region Communication ‘Humanities, Opportunities and Norwegian interests in the North’. It was the first North Region Communication that not only looked at the international conditions in the Arctic and in the northern regions, but also at the social development in North Norway. It was a major turnaround in the North Region policy. Right will follow up the Northern Territory Communication by pursuing a policy that contributes to the success of Northern Norway, that it will be attractive for people to live and live in the North. Then the Right believes that we need to expand the decentralised education offer and get more students to complete the school, to continue the historical commitment to transport, to ensure that businesses create more and no more taxes, to provide people with security in everyday life with good preparedness and a strong defence, to have a health and care service with quality and freedom of choice, and to invest even more in research and innovation. Finally, I'm excited about the government's response to this interpellation. I must be absolutely honest that I am disappointed that the Prime Minister himself does not put in the interpellation debate, but chooses to demarcate the North Region policy and the development of North Norway to municipal and districts, when there is so much more. It's about industry, it's about education, it's about defence and other areas that are important, especially in a situation where we need more than ever an active north-eastern policy based on the new security policy situation we now see in the world, which will also challenge north-eastern policy and the development of North Norway in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3839	The northern regions are Norway's main strategic focus. The government will renew and strengthen its efforts and have great ambitions for development in the north. The fact that there are people living in the north is also of security policy importance to the whole country. Societal development in North Norway is a national issue. The brutal Russian invasion of Ukraine shakes a whole world. We have a serious security crisis in Europe. This will have major consequences, not only for the Ukrainian people, but also for international cooperation for a long time to come. This will also have major implications for our cooperation with neighbouring Russia. The close cooperation and the trust we have built up across the border in the north through generations will be under a heavy pressure. People, businesses and actors who have run cross-border people-to-people cooperation and trade in the Barents region will be affected. This feels heavy and difficult. In view of this situation, the Nordic regions, as Norway’s main strategic area of activity, are not becoming less topical — on the contrary. Our border societies are being hit more strongly by sanctions and the unrest we are now facing. We follow the situation in the north closely and assess specific measures related to the consequences of the sanctions imposed, in particular in East Finland. District policy is particularly important for the north. After eight years of centralising reforms of the Solberg government, we need a new course and an active policy. Around the country – not least in northern Norway – many have experienced that they have not been heard and that the problems they face have not been solved. The main challenges in many districts are known: there is a shortage of jobs in some places, there are jobs in others, but there are people lacking – not least the latter is important. An ageing population, dislocation and low migration are challenges that hit North Norway differently. People, activity and value creation in the north are more important than ever and are crucial to Norway’s strategic interests. The economy is doing well in many places, but the green shift and demographic challenges also create a struggle for labour and make major demands for the transformation and further development of society and business. We will therefore present a communication on district policy next spring. Because several of the district challenges are particularly severe in North Norway, the local community will receive particular attention in the communication. The message will include: is about developing an active business and competence policy and how to ensure a good service provision where people live. Access to and recruitment of labour, skills policy and decentralised training provision will be key themes in the district communication. The government has a goal that education and lifelong learning must be available where people live. We need to strengthen education and the provision of continuing training, build strong professional training and secure a place for young people who want to do so. Vocational schools will have an even greater role to play in ensuring better opportunities for lifelong learning across the country. The county council shall be strengthened as a community developer. Regional competence policies provide good conditions for county councils to pursue a coherent and coherent policy from higher education, vocational schools, career guidance, continuing education, integration and industrial development. We are already working on a number of concrete measures: Efforts for flexible and decentralised education and local study centres have been significantly enhanced. The systems shall meet local skills needs. We have also allocated funds to continue and establish new places of study in North Norway for 2022 and beyond. We follow up on what we promised to Nesna. This year we allocate 60 million. kr to the University of North in order to re-establish and build teacher and kindergarten education at Nesna. We also carry out an evaluation of the personalised actions in the action zone in Finnmark and Nord-Troms. We are committed to having instruments that meet the challenges in the zone. In the 2022 budget, we have increased the deduction of income for persons in the action zone from 15 500 kroner to 20 000 kroner. The evaluation results will be ready for the harvest. In the district communication, I will come back with an assessment of how we can best meet the challenges in the zone of personal rights measures. The government is also working on developing regional growthagreements and urban growthagreements as new and effective tools in rural policy. The agreements will contribute to better coordination of measures and instruments to facilitate industrial development, access to skilled labour and housing. Municipalities and counties in North Norway will clearly be an important contracting party. It leads to too much mention of all the concrete bets being made by the government for North Norway, but another example of an important bet in the north is the strong conversion package for the Andeya community. Earlier today, together with the Minister for Transport, I announced that the government is inviting the start of negotiations on an urban capital speech for Tromsø. The government has an overall approach to the challenges and opportunities of North Norway. Viable communities in our northern part of the country are of importance to the whole country. We need to look at new solutions that help more people to live and live their lives in the north. The Solberg government responded to the challenges of general policy and have targeted actions. We have far greater ambitions. It will be visible across the whole range of policy areas. After a few months, we are in a number of areas and will pay particular attention to the North regions in the forthcoming district announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3877	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I think it is somewhat worrying that when the Workers' Party and the Center Party delivered their additional proposal to the state budget last autumn, the first was a cut in the additional proposal, the funds for Northern Region measures. I don't want to call that a "new give" when someone then goes in to cut millions of dollars for north-eastern action in North Norway. Then it's good that someone will bet on competence and business. But the problem is that when you have a government like that. reduces school ambitions by removing many of the demands we have made to have good teachers — which can actually help more students in Northern Norway to complete the school, which helps to reduce high school dropouts and which contribute to the success of the results — so it does not help to have ambitions when a kitter makes clear demands for a better school. It's a good thing that you're going to bet on business, but the problem is that you have a government with the Center Party and the Workers' Party that goes in to increase taxes on companies in Northern Norway, so it's more difficult for those companies to actually create more jobs. Then I also think that the Central Party has been very offensive in the election campaign. There's no way what's promised: one has promised 24 billion. kr extra for county roads initiated by the Solberg Government. One has promised 10 billion. kr alone to Tromsø through an urban capital speech, as the Council of State said. One has promised several state jobs. One has promised better preparedness, but some of what the Center Party in Tromsø did was to cut the rescue services in North Norway, which now contribute to a poorer rescue response in North Norway. One has said that someone should build the North Norway Railway. One has challenged the EEA Agreement, and I don't know how wise it is when we see the security policy and international situation we are currently facing. I would also like to challenge the Council of State to say, when the Central Party has been as offensive out as one was in the election campaign: is it such that the development we are now seeing in the north that population falls, despite the fact that it has risen in the last 20 years, will be reversed in four years with the Central Party in government? I think the Council of State should give a clear answer to that. Then I have one last thing that I want to challenge the government council. I was in South Varanger on Friday, visiting the business community there, who has now asked for clear measures from the government. They have gone and waited now for three weeks without getting any action. Is it the case that the government will now take action on the business community in South Varanger, which is now being heavily challenged by these sanctions – which, of course, it is quite right to introduce, but which will have major consequences for that community?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3890	Here, there was a mix of different issues, local and national policies, discussions on north-eastern issues in particular, and more general policies, such as school policy. In my answer, I have chosen to focus on what are separate north-eastern actions. I think the representative, for example. had been able to take advantage of the fact that we were able to report today that after very many years in the drawer of the department during the previous government, we have now started negotiations, invited to negotiations, about an urban capital speech in Tromsø. This is something the municipality has been waiting for for many years, and after a few months in the government offices, we can now sign it out. I don't think it's unimportant. that we can put in such a heavy bet as we do on e.g. Andøya, to ensure the transition after, for example: The right was there and wanted to wind up there. that instead of completing the education offer at the University of Nesna and Nord University, we are now re-establishing and putting into practice the education of kindergarten teachers and teachers. that we already establish in the first budget several medical training places in Tromsø and several nurse training places in North Norway that we have strengthened the economic instruments through Innovation Norway targeted at green jobs in the district policy area we have increased the Finnmark deduction that we have raised the stake on broadband if we lower the ferry costs The list of concrete things is therefore long, and we have only started so far. The ambitions of the government in the area of the north are great and are filled with a lot more concrete content than what we saw from the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3921	I note that the interpellant criticises the government for too little follow-up to the Northern Territory message from the previous government, while in its follow-up posts it criticises the ambitions of the Center Party, and the efforts made by the government to go beyond what the submitted Northern Territory message adds. I would like to thank the Minister for a good and comprehensive report on the government's work on the North bets. I want to use this post – and reserve the right to do so – to be a little more concrete, because the North Sea Communication is about social development, which is about both working life, labour and living in the north. One of the measures put in place by the previous government before the elections was to tender the FOT routes. The Industry Committee has just been on a committee tour, and several of the recordings we received at that time were that the flight offer on the FOT routes in the districts was a restriction for further development and ensuring competence in their respective industries. Norway is long, and most of it is north. Helgeland may not be the area most often mentioned when talking about North Norway, but it's just as full a part of North Norway. We see that the FOT route that's there makes those who live in Helgeland unable to reach their regional hospital if you travel the same day. There is nothing to promote housing and population development. Nor is it very reassuring for the people who live there. Similarly, the new tendering policy, which was developed over the period of the previous government, means that regularity is low. Parallel flights are flown along the Helgeland coast that go either from Trondheim to Bodø or vice versa, which makes regularity very low. If you, for example, to travel to Oslo, you often have to travel via Bodø. It's the same thing as if you were going from North Norway to Trondheim, you had to travel via Oslo. It is neither environmentally friendly nor economical. So when you're going to have a Northern Region initiative, it's important to have plans and general policies, but it's just as important that you have concrete political decisions and ambitions at the levels that matter to people and businesses in the area. I would like to make a concrete reference to the Government Platform, which shows that ‘the maintenance of a good, decentralised network of short-haul aerodromes and the use of these networks in the field of aviation electrification, including through a technology development programme’. The State must continue to be responsible for the FOT routes and ‘secure low prices and multiple take-offs on the short-haul network. The objective is to halve the prices of the FOT routes.’ This is only one of the measures relevant to the development of North Norway, but it is an extremely important contribution to maintaining and further developing the population that the interpellant rightly points out has fallen through the period of the Solberg government. I wish the government good luck, and I believe that the Minister – based on what he said in his statement – has a good starting point for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3938	I think it is very good that my colleague from the Right and Troms has taken the initiative for this interpellation, because the Northern Region policy is a topic that we hear very little about from the government. I want to use the chance to draw a little longer lines, since I have also been working on Northern Region Policy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as an official there for a number of years. What we have to remember is that the great grip that the Solberg government took on the North Region policy was to go from using a little bit more abstract concepts to make it about the development of North Norway, and to focusing on developing business and creating jobs. It has been made possible by historical investment in infrastructure — roads, aviation, yes, all kinds of infrastructure. There has also been a policy of working with private actors to achieve good cooperation and industrial development in North Norway. Economic growth in northern Norway has, as you know, been stronger in the last 10–12 years than in the rest of Norway. It has also been historically strong. You almost have to go back to the loofot fishing in order to see equally strong economic growth and job creation in the north. When you add up the private investments that are now going to be made in the Nordic region, which I represent, you get to almost 100 billion. kr. I have just returned from a tour of Helgeland, where you can see the huge stakes that happen both in the lake, the lake of Sandness and Mo in Rana, which we visited. But there is also a big challenge, which the previous government did not do enough, but which we see clearly the outlines of now, and which I will encourage the new government to really address. It's about education and skills and attracting young people who want to bet. It's a huge challenge, and here, the Big Government has the opportunity to do something big. Then you have to think again and have strong measures. I would like to invite you to cooperate on this also between us from the part of the country. When I talk to people in North Norway about the new Big Government, the feedback I get is that this is the broken promises policy. Take the promise of Andøya: I said myself, through the media, to the Battle of Vedum in the election campaign that this I thought was not realistic, and asked him if he should not then be honest about what the outcome would be if they got government power. He was standing on his own. Nesna is another example: I have been in debate with Battle Violence Vedum about it too, where he has promised expensive and sacred, but there was no own college there. In the case of the Nord-Norway, which was to be implemented and built immediately at a government change, some investigation tools have been put in place. On the main ferry link between Lofoten and Vesterålen, ferry prices have not fallen in the new year, but the route offer has decreased. As far as Finnmark is concerned, it is quite rightly pointed out that it is also about security policy. There's a lot to do if you're willing to cooperate with the right-hand side instead of SV. Then you can do a lot of power and minerals. You can get a very strong growth, but again: it needs to be combined with a policy to attract people. The Solberg government gave money to a North Norwegian investment fund, while the Støre government has cut off the North Region funds, which have been pointed out. But the possibilities are there, that's the early period. I would like to encourage the Big Government to take hold of this – then it may be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3959	The interpellant writes that North Norway needs more people. The interpellant correctly pointed out that the population in northern Norway has fallen over several years, and he pointed to international urbanisation and less immigration. It's part of the picture, but let's look at the numbers of domestic movements, that is, how many of those who were already living in Norway, who moved into Troms, Finnmark and Nordland, and how many who moved out in recent years, when the Solberg government crashed. We have the numbers' clear speech here. In the last three years, with the Right in government, 6,448 people have moved out of Troms and Finnmark, while 4,580 more people have moved out of Northland than in Northland – a total of 11,028 people have left the country only in three years. From Troms and Finnmark moved almost 3 pst. out of the population in the county in only three years. That's what happened: 3 pst. by the population of Troms and Finnmark moved out of Troms and Finnmark in only three years. That's the fasit that we're left with. Then what is the current government going to do for North Norway? It is also shown that the Hurdal platform is too little concrete. Well, let's look at that. It says it's black and white that we want to halve the flight prices on the FOT routes. We want to halve the prices of national road ferries and county road ferries. We will provide free ferry services for islands and other road-unconnected communities to the mainland, and all ferry services with less than 100,000 passengers per year will be free of charge. We want to ensure more places of study in the north. We're already in the process, and one of the first things we did was to save the study offer at Nesna. We're not saying that this came like a snowmobile in our head. We took responsibility and saved the study offer. We'll build a new industry based on cheap Norwegian electricity; there won't be any more foreign tables with this government. We want to secure broadband for everyone; all households in Norway will get broadband during the time we are in government. Of course, it's also important for North Norway. Municipalities will receive a greater share of the income from their natural resources, and we have already provided for an increase in the income deduction for the action zone in Finnmark and Troms. This is a concrete grip, and there is no doubt that the current government is betting on North Norway. We must also bear in mind that the investment in North Norway has historically inspired the whole of the rural policy in Norway. I want to quote the North Norway expansion plan, which was adopted at Stortinget in 1951. At that time, the government wrote: ‘The Government considers the development of North Norway not only as a major national task and obligation but as a measure of relevance to the Western world [[...]] That was a clear speech. In 1946, the news of the repatriation of the war armies was presented. It inspired the Northern Norway development programme in 1951, which, in turn, provided the basis for the District Development Fund, which was of great importance not only for North Norway, but for district policy throughout Norway. It became crucial for the development of the whole of Norway, from Nordkapp to Lindesnes. This government is betting on North Norway, we're betting on developing all of Norway. We're already doing that, and we're going to do it every day in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3975	First, I would like to address an invitation to the Sandtrøen from Hedmark to come to North Norway, because it is obviously none of the Central Party representatives from Troms and Finnmark who are able to meet up for the debate once, and it might tell you a little bit about the Central Party's involvement in the northernmost states. So at least it's good that there are people from Hedmark Centerpartie who take the floor in a debate about North Norway. I challenged the Council of State on a concrete question about population development would turn around after four years with the Central Party, and I did not get an answer to that. It may tell you something about the trends we experience, such as urbanisation, being a global trend and being difficult to turn around. And then it's about not just having policies that are whether we're going to have one or two county municipalities, but actually spending time and commitment talking about stronger population development and how we're going to get more competent labour in our part of the country. I am very pleased with many of the grips taken by the Solberg government to rig North Norway as a part of the country – as a contribution to reducing corporate taxes, but which is now being increased by the new government, and as a contribution to doubling the transport budget, so that they can launch more important transport projects in North Norway. Now we actually get for the first time also a state grant scheme for county roads with the Solberg government. We've contributed to several places of study, because we know that several places of study help people to stay in the country. And it was also the Solberg government that put forward a strategy for decentralised education, which was put forward last year. There has been a record growth in building new hospital buildings with the Solberg government. So that we took a lot of action in the Solberg government, there's no doubt about it. And then the Center Party and the Government, with the Workers' Party, the Center Party, would like to get on the chest over some small-drinking here and there in the first few months, but the polls show that people are not satisfied with the work done after six months with the Workers' Party and the Center Party in government. I want to say that the government has put the list very high for what to do with actions in North Norway. I'm very excited about that challenge. The Council of State mentioned in its article an urban capital speech for Tromsø. I'm very happy about that. It was the Solberg government that took Tromsø as part of the urban growth agreements. The Center Party has also promised 10 billion. NOK, and I'm excited to see if it's being fulfilled. I think the most important thing is that someone now spends their time building policies for North Norway that contribute to stronger population development and contribute to increased skilled labour – and I'm going to follow. I may come up with several interviews, because I believe, as my co-representative from Northern Ireland, that we have a very big heart for our part of the country, and we want North Norway to go well – both in terms of population development and increased competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e3990	The main opinion poll we can refer to was probably the one we had in the last big shot, and the result of it was that the Right more or less was voted out of North Norway after eight years in government. I'll comment on some of what Thorheim brought up in his post. He just pointed to the importance of available competence, education, decentralised education, and said that the previous government had not done enough in that area. We agree on that, and that's why it's very priority from the Workers' Party-Center Party government just to lift that field significantly. We've already started with that. We have already invested considerable resources in this year’s budget to ensure flexible and decentralised training provision, in addition to what has been specifically deployed to reduce education provision in Nesna and in addition to what has been done to strengthen educational capacity with new places of study, including: in North Norway. I believe that that area will also be well described in the forthcoming district communication, because I believe that some of the main challenge we have in district policy, including challenges for North Norway, is to ensure access to people, access to competence. That's why it's going to be very focused, and we're already on it. Then Thorheim got into this with historical investment in infrastructure. Well, then you could say that we have increased the bet on broadband this year by almost 50 pst. in addition to the Solberg Government. There is still a need for more, to be preserved, but still. And in line with, among other things: We have lowered the demand for the local share, so that it is possible to finance broadband projects even in more pig-grown areas, where it is expensive to expand. And we now presented a concrete urban index for the four largest cities, which have been prioritised for many years – and the next five have been waiting and waiting and waiting. Well, now we start with the next five, and we start in Tromsø. And it's pointed to the work on cheaper ferries, cheaper air services, etc., so on the infrastructure side we're in the process of getting a number of measures anchored in the Hurdal platform. Finally, it was asked, Did you keep the promises? Yes, there were university offers instead of own colleges in Nesna, but above all, instead of winding up the entire offer. So when the representative from the Right calls for and criticises us for the extent to which election vows have been presented, the policy is called for in areas where you are completely opposed – such as having study offers in Nesna, such as compensating Andeya properly, so that you can reverse the winding-up you were in there, to new growth and development, or to that part of the North Norwegian Railway, for which you are now launching a full-fledged KVU investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-17.ana.ud565e4003	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16 – and that was the last thing in the day. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
