ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e28	An application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen is submitted from 23 March until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Telemark, Olav Urbø, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, cf. Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy § 5, second sentence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of Telemark, Trond Ballestad, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e55	Trond Ballestad is present and will take the seat. The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e62	I have, on behalf of the representatives of Morten Stordalen, Tor André Johnsen and myself, the honour of presenting a proposal for a representative on a national motorway plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e67	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Today, March 23rd, is the Nordic Day. On this day 60 years ago, the Helsinki Agreement was concluded – the ‘basic law’ of Nordic cooperation. This year we also show that the Nordic Council is 70 years old. The Nordic Council parliamentarians are actively working to make the Nordic region the most integrated region in the world and to make everyday life even better. Nordic cooperation is significant because our countries face many of the same challenges and have the same democratic values. Together we stand stronger, we have greater impact and are more effective than each of us. In today's situation, with war in our neighbourhood, Nordic cohesion and cooperation are more important than ever. The big picture marks the day with the Nordic flag on the Lion's Hill. The Stortinget delegation to the Nordic Council invites you to highlight the 70th anniversary in the Vandrehallen between 2 p.m. 12 and 14 and hope that as many people as possible come in. I have heard rumors that the delegation leaders Jorodd Asphjell and Helge Orten even keep up with the Nordic rear. Welcome, everyone!
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e91	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office about the Government Councils Björn Schjörn, Kjersti Toppe and Sandra Borch will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Tage Pettersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e100	The situation in Ukraine is getting worse every day, and the number of refugees coming to Norway will be very large. A preliminary scenario from the Foreign Administration Calculation Committee shows that there may be 35 000 asylum seekers in Norway in 2022, of which 30 000 from Ukraine. Among these are very many children on the run. In yesterday's VG, we could read about children rescued from the war in the last few years, and about one of the orphanages that had to be evacuated when the war was a fact. A children's home in the Luhansk region became 40 children between 2 months. and 4 years old packed into a bus and drove on to the train station. There awaited a long journey westward through Ukraine, and shortly after the children arrived to Lviv they saw pictures of how the children's home they had fled from had been protected only days after they had traveled themselves. Many children are fleeing, and many child institutions have been evacuated since the start of the war. Saved Children estimates that about 100,000 orphans are now being evacuated from Ukraine. To date, some unaccompanied minor asylum seekers have arrived, but it must be expected that the figure will increase. Child protection is the responsibility of the lone minor asylum seekers. In a meeting with representatives from the KS yesterday, they were concerned that the children who have come to date have not been among them with the most resource-intensive needs, but that those who are coming in the future are likely to be more traumatised. What concrete plans does the Minister for Children and Family have to speed up the reception capacity of care centres, and what are the scenarios envisaged by the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e113	Thank you for the question. First, I want to stress that there's a very serious situation for the refugees, and it's a special refugee crisis because very many, so half of the refugees are children. It's a responsibility I take, and a situation that I follow very closely. When it comes to what we read about children who are evacuated and who live in children's institutions in Ukraine, it's particularly bad to see pictures, and that's a terrible situation for them. I could, like everybody else wanted us to do even more from Norway. But we're going to set up for these kids, as we can, and the way that's best. Now, aid and evacuation of single children from Ukraine is not under my responsibility. I am responsible for the children who come to Norway. It is under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Security. But what the government has said is that such an evacuation must take place in an orderly manner, in cooperation with UN actors and in coordination with European parties. In this way, you can also ensure documentation and correct follow-up. But I can make sure that if and when there are many more single minors coming to Norway, we have a system to set up for them, and we have contingency plans for that. It takes place through the Bufdir, i.e. the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate, where one has plans to increase the capacity of care centres for children under 18. It may also be relevant to find foster homes for infants and young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e122	Thanks for the answer. I feel that there is a great deal of will in the Norwegian population to help in the current situation in Europe. Then I think it's important that we let go of all the good cancers. The Minister of Justice said at the government press conference on 18 March that the government has good control and capacity in the receptions now. The Prime Minister told Stortinget that he was working on emergency measures to deal with an exceptional situation up to 100,000 refugees. State administrators Replystad Haugland in Oslo and Viken call for better communication this week between central and local authorities. She feels a great frustration outside the municipalities associated with the handling. How will the Council of State ensure better interaction in the area for which she is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e129	Of course, the situation we're facing challenges us with communication. The point is that a lot of the practical things are going to happen in the municipalities. I have also been worried that communication is not good enough, or that there are challenges to it. What I am responsible for is the minors under the age of 15 who are to be busied, but I have also been involved in this with the danger of trafficking in human beings, abuse and failure, which can happen. What I have done, at least, is that in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, I have taken a joint initiative in which we have asked our Directorates to develop a common strategy towards the municipalities, to follow them up in a better way and to provide good information, especially on the risks of trafficking in human beings, etc. A letter should also be sent to the municipalities about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e134	There will be follow-up questions – first take Pettersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e139	In the last major refugee crisis in 2015 and 2016, we learned a lot. At the time, there were also many young lone asylum seekers, and public, private and voluntary activities contributed to a diversity of good services in the municipalities. Without the good resources having found each other, we probably hadn't managed to solve the huge challenge at that time. Two years of pandemic have also shown us how this triangle of public, non-profit and private efforts has been the key to good crisis management in very many communities. In order to comply with the emergency measures taken by the government, they say they are working on, and as the Council of State explained, the exceptional measures must be put in place, and in that situation it will be necessary to use all the good forces once again. How does the Council of State think that preparedness would be if we had not had the opportunity in the situation we are now to cooperate with, for example. private care centres around the country to assist with reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e144	What's at least a challenge now is that part of the reception apparatus and these centers are centralized, and it turns out now that we don't get to receive so many in such a short time without having a decentralised reception. We're now working on rebuilding. When it comes to private matters, we now have to work out the emergency arrangements that exist. In my area, there are to a large extent many private commercial operators who have such contingency agreements. I've thought that we have to work with this, but it's important that the public itself can have agreements for it in the future and not be so dependent on private and commercial, as I think we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e149	Grete Wold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e154	I have a follow-up question to the Council of State Toppe. As the previous representative said, there is a terriblely difficult situation for very many children in Ukraine and in the areas around it. We also know that Ukrainian authorities have some expectations and leads to how to help these children out of Ukraine, and how to take them to our country and give them the care they need — perhaps for a long time. Then we know that several of those who may now be coming are going to have quite a lot of care needs – both those who are under 15 and those who are coming as single minors, and who are going to be received. How do you actually work to put in place adequate skills and capacities, including multicultural competences, in the field of child protection, even for those over the age of 15?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e164	Once again, I have to say that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has the primary responsibility to deal with these challenges, but I also want to say that the Ukrainian government has not yet asked Norway to contribute to bringing out children, but we are ready. To what the representative addresses, how we are now integrating all the children who are coming: it's a very important task. We're just working on that. That's what's special about this refugee crisis, and I want to challenge the municipalities when it comes to integrating into kindergarten, in secondary school and in the elementary school. Voluntary organisations will also be able to mobilise. Then it's important to secure the pediatric competence. One thing is to do this at centres for those under 15 years of age, but we also need to strengthen them in the usual receptions where children live with their parents – or, often in this context, with their mother.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e171	Abid Raja – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e176	Professionals say a good childhood lasts life. Good experiences in childhood, safety, care, acceptance and early efforts can make it possible for you to master life in a safer way. Unfortunately, the opposite can also be with you out of life: bad experiences in childhood, failure, fear, insecurity, war, sorrow, loneliness, losing their loved ones and being on the run — trauma. The Norwegian people seem to have enormous heart space for Ukrainians on the run. People are ready to open up their homes. Then on Sunday we could read in the VG that the government's government manager in Oslo and Viken and several municipalities report poor coordination of the refugee situation. We know that those who get out the worst when the systems fail are just vulnerable children. Is the Council of State, on behalf of the children, concerned about what appeared in the VG, and how will the Council of State contribute to the reception and organisation of children in the best possible way in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e183	I must again stress that it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion that has the primary responsibility of the representative for housing outside the municipalities. But as Minister for Children and Family Affairs, of course, I am very concerned about following up on how the children are taken care of. It's like children have basic dishes, and we're going to take care of that when their children come to Norway. The fact that there is good coordination, and that good information is given to the places that have received and passed on when it comes to building is important. I'm also concerned that we should provide good information to refugees who come and whom I was in, and that also applies to information about what could be the risk. So we're already working on all of the things that the representative deals with, and that's a priority task.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e188	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e193	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea. On the coast there are particularly two things that are moving, and that are upsetting many, including the Minister for Fisheries' own party traps, if we are to believe what is in many newspapers. One is the new valuation technique of breeding permits, leading to an increase in tax bill of up to 700-800 pst. for Norwegian owners of mainly non-listed small and medium-sized aquaculture companies. This may lead to an undesirable consolidation in which several companies eventually end up on the stock exchange, it may lead to a buy-in rudder from foreign investors, or it may lead to a deportation from the coast. In any case, local ownership will be weakened. The second issue is the critical situation for many fishermen. We receive daily notifications from both individual fishermen and organisations calling for warnings related to galloping costs, especially in the case of fuel. Since 2020, the price of diesel has increased by about 350 pst., according to the Fiskerlag, most of the last weeks. In the last few months, the government has had to wait and see, carefully evaluate, and listen to reports from the industries. This is nothing to wait for. This is happening now. The fishermen understand the economy, and they know what pays for their own wallet. For parts of the fishing fleet it is now not profitable to leave the berth to fish. It affects not only fishermen, but also the receptions and industry. There's an entire value chain about to lose. Now is the time to go from word to action. We don't have one fisherman to lose. The organisations have sent to the Council of State and the Minister of Finance a number of proposals that will have immediate effect, for example: bunkering without a basic charge and strengthening the compensation scheme. Will the Council of State deliver on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e206	Both questions asked by the representative relate to our charging system. I think Stortinget is well aware that the Minister of Finance meets here in regular Question Time and will have the opportunity to answer over a dozen questions – I think it is – where many of them relate to exactly what is involved in fuel taxes. I shall nevertheless allow myself to say some words about this. But I start with the issue of farm permits and property taxes. The Solberg Government proposed to abolish an unfortunate practice that has been established, where fishing and rearing permits acquired before 1998 were not subject to a property tax. The new government adheres to the assessments made and the Storting adopted this proposal in the context of the budget for 2022. So the situation today is that we've got a non-discrimination in place. As I said, past practice lacked a principle of justification and arbitrarily discriminated against taxpayers who own older permits. On the question of fuel costs, there is war in Europe. We're affected by it, even though of course we're not affected in the same way as those who are in the middle of it. It makes us see that there is movement in terms of commodity prices. It also affects fuel prices. Now they've turned up, and they've gone down a little bit. This situation is closely monitored by the government. I have close dialogue with both the maritime organisations and organisations in the fishing industry. Then we make continuous assessments of what might be the current measures in that context. I think it would be right that the Minister of Finance is the one who goes deeper into that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e215	The compensation scheme, for example, is below the Minister of Fisheries's portfolio. So it is fully possible to take effective measures that are effective, quite soon. So no one claims that one thing alone is the government's fault that we're there today and that everything is going to be more expensive, but it's government's responsibility to do something about it. When one has sought power and positions, it is the government's responsibility to take this seriously. One of the reasons we have done well so far, and that no more boats are at berth, are sky-high cod prices. It's very uncertain what happens after April when the fishing for the scare is over. It's also one of the main concerns in the industry. As it is today, probably only the large seasonal fisheries for herring, mackerel and cod will pay off. What will happen when fishing for lower-price species begins, where quotas in normal years are not even fished? No one knows. How much of the fleet must be at berth before the Minister for Fisheries takes this seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e224	The Minister for Fisheries is taking the situation very seriously. Then the big picture is that there is a good economy in the Norwegian fishing industry. It's going well, last year was a new record year with export values combined for Norwegian seafood of 120 billion. I guess I'll do that. Then mentioned is the compensation scheme for the CO 2 tax. Then I just want to stress that there is a scheme that is a back-up scheme. This means that the funds to be paid in 2022 are compensation for costs related to the CO 2 tax in 2021. However, when the Ministry of Finance and the Government are required to make their assessments of the right to introduce measures relating to high fuel prices, all elements will of course be part of that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e237	There will be follow-up questions – first Sivert Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e242	I see that the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea is not addressing the major challenge that is happening right now. It's true that there was a good economy in the fisheries in 2021, and because of high cod prices right now it's good economy for those who fish cod. If you ask the shrimps in the South, it's not a good economy now. There are the boats at berth, and the receptions also do not get raw material, which means that the fishing industry also wears along large parts of the coast. It's only going to get worse when the fishing for screech and cod is over, because then you're going to go to quotas that in normal years aren't fully fished, for example. Hush and shush. It does something about the availability of raw materials to the many, many hundreds of people employed in the fishing industry along our entire coast. So you could say that the economy in 2021 was good, but the economy is now pretty bad. What does the Minister for Fisheries want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e250	I mean, I've blacked it out. The government is following this continuously, and the measures we assess in the area of taxes are, of course, considered together. It is the Minister of Finance who has the constitutional responsibility and will be able to go deeper into questions related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e255	Olve Grotle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e260	I will follow up the situation that has just been outlined, namely that there are alarming times for fishing, there are major problems related to fuel, but there are also other challenges for fishing. It is important to follow up the things you can do now, rather than waiting for a more detailed review of the different things. The Minister for Fisheries just received a report, entitled ‘Green Value Creation and Increased Processing in the Marine Food Industry’, from the Tveiterås Committee. There are several concrete proposals, some of which are almost as urgent as urgent proposals, among others. six or seven different proposals relate to the quota notification and to our quota system. The question to the government council: will the government intervene now, or will he wait until the government submit the notification? And if he does the last thing, I'm afraid that a loser could be using unnecessary time to help the fishing industry in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e267	The report from the processing committee provides a new, up-to-date knowledge base, and I have noticed the words that were said by several when I received the report. They pleaded that we should not treat it in the same way as previous governments have done with similar reports, that this report should not be left in a drawer. It is a message that I have received and met offensively. I immediately decided that this report should not be in a drawer, but that it should be processed as soon as possible. I immediately sent it out to the hearing, so that all the organisations, all the stakeholders in the industry, can contribute their recordings until we get to grips with it. Increased processing of seafood in Norway is an important goal for the government, and it is clearly anchored in the Hurdal platform. The time has come to fill the fisheries policy with industrial content, and I will come back to how I, as Minister for Fisheries and Seas, will deliver on it. So it's like this: yes, the report and the recordings we get at the hearing to deal with this further. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e276	Time's up. Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e283	The question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. The Korona crisis has accentuated the economic inequality in Norway. That was also the main conclusion of a last year's SIFO report. Since then, market forces have been raging with people through electricity prices. Since then, the price of both food and fuel has also increased. More people are struggling to get ends to meet, and thus more people are struggling to deal with the bills that come unexpectedly, or increased expenses. The solution for many becomes unsecured loans with sky high interest rates, because there are few alternatives. We now see that several of those who have taken up the consumption loan are unable to pay the instalments. People who have payment notes have got more, and they also owe more on average. In my time as a social worker on Nav, I met many people who ended up in a violent darkness because of an unmanageable debt situation. Just as the electricity price must face political control over the power market, so the debt crisis that people experience must also meet with political solutions and regulation. Now thousands of people are in a situation of unmanageable debt, and the Debt Register also reports increased use of credit cards. Then I would like to hear what the Council of State will do for people who are in a desperate situation, with debts they can't handle, and perhaps even have lost the overview. What are the thoughts of the Council of State regarding the marketing of unsecured loans and around the Debt Register and changes that need to be made there? What are the political solutions for those people who are now in the darkness of a debt crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e294	Thank you for a comprehensive question. In the case of debt records, it is subject to revision. It's under my department, so there's a job now where we look at possible improvements in it. My responsibility is children and families, and it is also a concern from my side that there are many families with children who are being hard hit by the changes listed by the representative. It goes beyond the economy of many families. What is important is that we introduce and have already made important contributions to reducing the financial risk to many families with children. Then I will mention this by strengthening the universal welfare supply. It's about making babysitting cheaper in the fall. SV has participated in the decision on free core time in SFO. We also strengthen the municipal economy, allowing municipalities to provide welfare services to families with children. Not least, we have also made changes to the tax regime, so that more – two out of three – taxpayers get lower taxes. We have also strengthened the bus pay scheme and are going to set up a low-income commission, as a warning on the Hurdal platform. These are things that were warned before the situation we're in now, with very high power prices, more expensive food, etc., so we're following this closely. We want a society in Norway where we get less, don't increase differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e303	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is raising the SV's important budgetary impact as the solution for very many families with poor finances and to do something about the differences, but people who are struggling financially often experience few opportunities other than taking up consumption loans. This kind of loan is, for example, more widespread among lone dependants than others. At the same time as people are burdened with debt, some actors make a huge contribution to the fact that people are in a debt crisis, and the interest rates that some actors take today for unsecured debt are enormously high. It hits them with the worst ability to pay the hardest. In many countries, interest rates on loans and credit have just been introduced. Is there any government council that would consider appropriate here also in the country for loans without collateral, such as consumer loans and credit loans, to cut off the suppliers of the worst credit products?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e308	Here I have to say that I am a little uncertain about whether the issue is under my department, or whether it is under the general tax policy. I am responsible for consumer policy, and some of it is also under my responsibility, but some of it is against the Ministry of Finance and, if necessary, the Ministry of Justice, when it is in charge of this. But I am concerned about what the representative addresses. It's too easy to take on consumption loans, and there are some very high costs for those who come into the trap. I have raised this with interest when it comes to the law on debt registers, because there are also many people who experience that they are in an impossible situation. I can't answer that better.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e315	There will be follow-up questions – first Kathy Lie.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e320	In January, I asked the Council of State whether she would look at the possibility that debt interest would not be levied when people were deprived of income. The background was the challenges facing people in restitution, which can have liabilities related to the criminal offence as well as debts from house, car and consumption. When people are in restitution, they don't have the means to serve their debt, and they come out after settlement with an increased debt burden, which often becomes impossible to deal with when they are to be rehabilitated back into society. The Debt Code states that less than 10 pst. of the total debt of the person may be related to criminal offences and, in addition, the State is involved in increasing debt with interest on late payment. The Council of State replied at the time that the debt regime law had been consulted and that she would look into these issues in the follow-up to the hearing, so my question today is: Can the Council say anything about how far she has come to work on this, and what measures does she envisage to ensure real economic rehabilitation after settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e326	As the representative says, the debt law has been out on the ears. There are different improvements we consider in that context. The department and I are now working to follow up the phone call. After the time that has passed from the representative, I cannot say anything but that we are not finished, but we aim for us to put forward amendments. Just what time it will happen, I can't say here and now. I have been concerned about this issue – that there are many sons who get high interest rates and become debt slaves when they come out. It's a very important issue to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e333	Kathy Lie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e338	I have another question, which is a little related to what the representative Bergstø asked about. When we talk about child poverty, we usually talk about children growing up in families with persistently low incomes. But many children grow up in hidden poverty, where parents have education, job, house and income, but they have a crazy debt. And at some point, there are problems that make them unable to service the debt. These children are not caught to the same extent by auxiliaries, because they do not seem to live in poverty, but often they do not have enough money for food, clothing and activities for these children. I wonder how the Council of State sees that we can better catch up with these children and help them, so that they don't stigmatize and let go of fear that the family will lose homes and homes etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e343	When a family wears out financially, it's the kids who often get the biggest load, which we talk too little about. I tend to say that there are no poor children; there are poor parents. Of course, when parents face such a debt crisis as the representative describes, I am concerned about how to reach those children and young people. We have prioritised a number of universal arrangements that can make the economic space of the families of children better, by making the costs of kindergarten, etc. is getting smaller. We also have a priority for an incentive scheme for children and young people to gain easier access to leisure activities, etc. Work on discovering and doing things better to reduce child poverty in Norway, we're not done. And what the representative addresses is important: how do we see, discover and help the children living in such families?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e350	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e355	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea and concerns the fair distribution of fishing quotas and annual jobs in the fishing industry. When the National Audit Office presented its study in 2019 on the conditions of the Norwegian fishing industry and fisheries policy, we could read that they found that there is good profitability in parts of the fishing fleet, but we do not achieve the social objectives that fisheries legislation is intended to achieve. We have a weathering of viable fishing communities in many places. These are places like Røst and Vardø, where there are fewer and fewer boats, and where you have to struggle to keep the wheels running all year round. Then you have other places where things are going better, but where you've collected more and more allowances on fewer and fewer ships, and someone has to lose in that competition. For the fishing industry, this is very serious, because when fewer vessels are added, it means that fish are landed in fewer places. Then the question is: What will the Minister for Fisheries do to keep the fishing industry going and ensure raw material access and all-year jobs even after the season of screaming is over those places that do not have such a large fleet as today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e364	What the representative is addressing here is one of the important questions we are going back to Stortingen in connection with the quota notification – not only there, but many of the questions will be addressed in the quota notification. The main theme of the new message will be to clarify the allocation of structural gains when the structural allowances expire from 2026 onwards. I think this is going to be an important part of what we're going to do in relation to the quota notification. The previous government was unable to clarify this. We also need to redeploy a group into the coastal fleet. The third lead we're putting on, which is important in this context, is that we need to ensure good framework conditions for the fleet below 11 meters. In addition to the focus we have to have on what's happening in the ocean, i.e. resource distribution, quota allocation and that, we need to be able to have an industrial focus in the work we're doing. I have answered questions related to the processing committee earlier today. It's a very central knowledge base, which I've sent out to the hearing. I will address it when the hearing is closed and we have received input from everyone in the industry who has an interest in this work. With regard to the quota notification, we have come so far that we have started the work. A reference group led by State Secretary Vidar Ulriksen, with 10 members from business organisations and the Sameting and four observers from research and management has been set up. So the work is going well, and I look forward to eventually being able to deliver a message to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e377	The Hurdal Platform states that fishing quotas should be allocated more fairly. Does the Minister for Fisheries realize that this is possible without prejudice to the quota base for the largest vessels, i.e. trawls?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e382	I have already said that clarifying the allocation of structural quotas as they expire in 2026 will be an important part of this work, and I think that perhaps the answer to what the representative is asking for is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e387	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e392	A company such as Lerøy, which has only ten vessels – they have ten trawlers – fished for last year 74 000 tonnes of fish. This is the raw material base for 1000 ships in the coastal fleet, with possibly two to three persons on board. We also know that the majority of the fish that have been fished up go out of the country for processing in low-cost land. Does the Minister for Fisheries consider it reasonable that a small number of listed companies should have the resources mentioned here?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e398	For the government it is important that we keep a varied fleet. I think we're going to be very careful to stand on Stortinget's pulpit and talk down the meaning of jobs on board some vessel sizes. A fisherman is a fisherman, whether you're alone on a small boat or working on a larger vessel, and we need the whole spectrum, not least if we're going to be able to deliver on the targets we've set ourselves for processing. Having access to raw materials on land is fundamental. The government has also been very clear that the conditions for the universal jets are going to be handled and suspended. And it's important that there's a social contract that's actually being performed in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e403	Geir Jørgensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e408	This is not just about the trawls and that part of the fleet that has universal service obligations. There's a total in the distribution here that's such that one third of the Norwegian total quota is fished by large trawlers. We know that this is the most climate-friendly way of harvesting fish for the coastal fleet, and we know that we employ fish industry workers in many low-cost countries – in the EU, in China and around. So once again the question is: does the Minister for Fisheries think it is reasonable that while there is so much cannibalism in the coastal fleet, where one has to buy up the other to get a raw material base, one third of the Norwegian total quota and these billions of dollars are on as few hands as these trawlers represent?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e415	The government has said in the Hurdals platform that we will look at how we can limit ownership also in the coastal fleet. That's an important point for us. But neither does Red – I think at least – be able to influence the fish’s migration pattern. That means that if we're going to be able to fish up the total quota on all the fishing fleets in Norwegian waters, and I just remember that Norwegian waters are five to six times our land area, we also need a seagoing fleet. We need a good balance here, which allows us to fish on those values that don't come into the country. It's like... is happening under the loot fishing now, which is not happening for all kinds of fish. I think the representative is familiar with that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e420	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e425	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. We're in the middle of a very challenging time for many. The war in Ukraine is brutal, and the images that are shared from there just give us a tiny glimpse of how evil it actually is. The situation in Europe also affects us at home in many ways, including: as regards the level of costs of a number of goods such as: food. The value chain for food is complex and complicated. It's about the price of the inputs, which is now strongly influenced by the conflict, it's about the labor effort of the farmer, the costs of transport, distribution and distribution, and all this is before the goods finally find the way to us consumers. So part of these challenges is international, but an important national factor is the competition between the different actors in the food value chain. For the right, it is important that we take even more action to strengthen competition in the groceries market and to improve consumer choice and prices. Before Christmas, however, the Minister of Agriculture and Food was concerned that the food was too cheap. She called for the chains to sit down and cooperate not to have an offer on Norwegian food. Now it's Easter soon. Should the industry prepare for new prizes from the Minister of Food?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e438	Firstly, I share the concern about the situation in Ukraine. In Ukraine, they fight for life; in Norway, we experience increased costs, mainly on a number of inputs. As far as the food chain is concerned, I have never encouraged price cooperation. Competition in the food chain is important. What I have said, on the other hand, is that they should contribute to the transparency of pricing, precisely so that those who produce the food, too, will have the means of income they deserve. We also have ambitious targets for this in the Hurdal platform, which we will now follow up on. I have met with the food chains separately, also to have a dialogue on how the market can also help those who produce the food get the income they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e445	I am very pleased that the food minister is clear that she is not for price cooperation, although I have to admit that I have a little hurt to understand how the three daily food manufacturers should sit down and work together not to have an offer, without that being price cooperation – but it gets so far to be okay. To that part of the value chain that concerns the farmer: there is a great deal of respect for the job that the farmer does. The importance of food production I think has become even clearer now, in the situation we are in. We know that the farmer's income can roughly be divided into one third of government transfers and two thirds of the market. The centre party has stressed on a number of occasions that strengthening the farmer’s income is synonymous with increasing the price of food, and that Norwegian food is too cheap. Is that what the Council of State still means? Does the government have solutions other than to increase food prices to ensure increased income from the market to the farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e452	The income potential of Norwegian food producers is made up of several factors. Today, the market accounts for two thirds of the farmer's income opportunities. The state is responsible for part of it. As we have announced on the Hurdal platform, we want to look at the action space for what we can do on customs protection, which is also an important mechanism. With regard to food prices, the government has now taken a number of measures to mitigate the increased costs, both for food producers and not least for the consumer. It is also worth mentioning that in the last 12 months food prices have fallen by 1.6 pst, while the general consumer price has increased by 3.7 pst. It's not that food prices have increased considerably, but I think we have to bear in mind, with the increased costs we are now seeing in the world picture, that there is also going to be some increase in food prices, both in Norway and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e457	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Westgaard-Halle.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e462	Then I noticed that the centre party still believes that the food is cheap. I did not hear a complete answer to what I was asking about, that is, how to increase the income of the farmers from the market. The only answer I heard was that you could increase customs protection. I would like to ask the question again. The two thirds – which is the majority of the farmer’s income – how does the government want to ensure increased revenues from the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e470	I feel that I have answered that, including previous questions. We've said that openness around price formation is going to be an important element for the government to look at. When you talk about incomes for the Norwegian farmer, you talk about income opportunities – both the market, the state, international factors, customs protection and the farmer’s own decisions. However, it is clear that the market is important as an income option for the Norwegian food producer, and it should still be.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e475	Sivert Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e480	The Minister of Agriculture moved out into the VG before Christmas and said that food in Norway is too cheap — despite the fact that we have among Europe and probably among the world’s highest food prices. Since then, food prices have increased violently, and this affects those who have at least before, most of all. Does the Minister of Agriculture think that it is enough now, or does the prices have to be further up before the government is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e485	It is not that the Minister of Agriculture and Food or the Government is setting food prices in Norway today. Neither should it be, it's the market that does, and then we have an extraordinary, unpredictable situation in the world now. So I just want to say that the Council of State has never mentioned that we have too cheap food. What the Council of State called for was that it is stupid to have price dumping on individual goods in season in Norwegian goods. With the situation we now experience in the world, what's going to happen in the future is uncertain, but what I can guarantee is that we follow the situation closely, especially on food preparedness, both in Norway and not least internationally, where we experience the biggest fluctuations in price.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e492	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e497	We are now in the midst of several crises. Many farmers now experience considerable uncertainty about the spring part of the year, as a result of a sharp increase in costs, such as high electricity prices and very high fuel prices, as well as in fertiliser prices. As a result, many farmers don't have the economy to grow wheat, which we are totally dependent on. Several grain producers in Westfold tell me that they have now made changes and instead add up more forage crops. So this is happening at a time when we are facing a great danger of an international food crisis. The country's farmers don't have time to wait if we're going to be able to maintain our own food production. What does the Council of State say to grain producers in Westfold and elsewhere in the country that is now struggling economically, and therefore does not see itself financially able to invest in food grain production this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e504	I have said – and I can say it again – that I and the government have guaranteed to increase the target price along with increased subsidies, just to ensure the production of food grain in the future so that it will be profitable. But I have to say that it is three months since we were discussing additional support for Norwegian farmers, given increases in the price of fertilisers and building materials. The government delivered 754 million. kr. The party of progress did not find room for it in its budget. So I notice that the Progress Party has now turned around completely, and it is very good – it is very good that the Progress Party has now suddenly become involved in Norwegian agriculture. I think that is good, but at the same time I believe that the Progress Party must also be honest about what they have done just three months ago, and that they have actually called for the whole negotiating institute in Norwegian agriculture. The agricultural settlement we are entering into now is going to be crucial for Norwegian food production, for Norwegian farmers who have experienced a great economic uncertainty in recent years. That course has this government going to turn around, and we're on. At the same time, we have to recognise that the world market situation is very inconspicuous and has given us completely different challenges than what we were facing just a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e513	I don't think farmers in Norway are very calm and very impressed to hear politicians talking about what happened last fall. What is the reality is that Ukraine, one of the world's largest exporters, among others. wheat, has closed the export limits. In the EU, we are now going to cultivate huge areas of fallow land. At the same time, Norwegian farmers reduce their production of food grain. When the Council of State does not take inward that there is a war in Europe, and that there are dramatically changed assumptions, one can ask the question: Does the Council of State think it is the right signal to send, not just to farmers and the Norwegian people, but to the rest of the world, which seems to be standing in a huge food crisis, that you will not now show action immediately? So the spring is now, the next few weeks – before farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e520	In order to repeat myself, the government has now given a guarantee of increased target prices and increased subsidies, which are precisely to ensure profitability by sowing grain, due to the extra fertiliser costs. It's an important signal. But then I think the Norwegian agricultural trade unions are also concerned about discussing what the target price should be. We have now given a guarantee that it will be profitable. It's an important signal. What we now see in the world is primarily serious for developing countries, which have a high supply from Ukraine and Russia. For Norway, there is currently no cause for concern about food safety. It's also important for me to point out. But it is clear that food preparedness and food security will be crucial in the future, and we need to take more responsibility for our own food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e527	There will be follow-up questions – first Tor André Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e532	We hear that the Council of State says that there is an important signal that the target price should be increased and that the subsidy should be increased. It is obviously important for the Council of State to criticise the Progress Party for what we have done or not done before, but it is now that we in the Progress Party are concerned about, it is now important, and it is serious. It's very serious, it's an explosive price increase all the farmers now experience. No more have even purchased fertilisers for the season, or they have bought less than they really need. We need all the food production we can get in Norway now in this season, and there is great uncertainty about food access on the world market. The choices made now in spring are the ones that are leading the crops that come beyond the year. We are concerned with results now, before the agricultural settlement. What is the specific Council of State going to do now, so that we can get started with the spring months in a safe and secure way?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e540	We're just a few weeks away from the farm settlement, and the budget student is now working on the figures, which go on both increased costs, income and income opportunities. It's clear that that work is going to be important. It is presented in just a few weeks and will form the basis for an important job to be done by the government for Norwegian food production. Then I just want to say that food preparedness and food security are not something you suddenly come up with, that's something you should work with evenly for years. I would say that has not been done, but this government now wants to increase its self-sufficiency to 50 pst. We have to think completely different than what we did just half a year and a year ago, just to increase food production. I can also say that today the municipal minister and I will send out a letter to all the municipalities of the country that soil protection should be a general consideration in all land management. It is also an important signal to ensure sufficient access to cultivated land.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e549	Tor André Johnsen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e554	We hear the council repeat that it's an important signal. It's nice that the ambitions, the will and the signals are there, but we still feel that it's going too late, that it's too slow. There are now many farmers buying fertilizers, that's now they lay the foundation for spring sons, and it's too late to wait for the settlement. Then I wonder if fertiliser support is something the council can now confirm that coming. It should be easy to answer. There are two possibilities: you need more support, or you need to remove charges. That's how we look at it in the Progress Party. There is a lot of fees the government can take on immediately. Especially for us in the Inland, in the mountain areas and where there are no flatlands and good working with cereals, you have to have milk, and you have to have grass. What will the government do now for example? the dairy farmers and not least to ensure that actors such as Synnove Find can also have framework conditions that make it attractive to start up in Namsos or Tolga? Will the government look at the PU system, perhaps with new eyes, and also push more money from the state into the PU system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e563	If I'm going to respond to fertilizer first, the government delivered additional negotiations in record speed as referred to increased fertiliser costs. I notice that the Progress Party was against it just three months ago. That Additional Protocol states that in the context of the agricultural settlement, the parties and the State shall return to other increases in the cost of the year's agricultural settlement. It is important for me to say again that we are now working to provide the figures of the budget item, which is just going to show the real number of increased costs, the real number of income possibilities and the actual income that has been. Then we have a situation in the world now that has made us completely different numbers to relate to than what has previously been known. I can reassure the representative that the Central Party and the government have planned to reverse the course of Norwegian agricultural policy and clean up the situation after the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e572	Olaug Vervik Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e577	On March 12th, the council said to the Evening Post that she wanted to prioritize local cereal stocks, she had launched an investigation into national cereal stocks, and it was unethical that one with the largest wallet bought grain from the world's poorest. If you see these statements together, you're not going to jump. What is the priority of the Council of State to ensure that we actually increase production and are prepared in our own country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e582	What the Council of State intends to do first is to ensure that we have a constant food production spread throughout the year. It is the most important thing we do for Norwegian food security and Norwegian food security. And then it's not to hide that the Center Party and the government parties have been very concerned that we also need to have emergency storage of grain. That's what we've been doing. We have launched an investigation to be carried out by the Agriculture Directorate in early June. It is important for me to say that we have not yet concluded on how to store, but we have different runs – both local storage, regional storage and central storage. I think that's gonna be important, and we also see now with the situation we're experiencing in the world, that it should have been in place a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e587	Olaug Vervik Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e592	When it comes to getting national large stocks, the Christian People's Party does not disagree, but there has to be something to fill them with. If we're not going to use our wallet and buy from the world's poorest, I think it's a wrong priority now. What does the Council of State think when she herself has said that one wants local stocks to spread the risk, so that one has spread the risk among others when one is going to have a good preparedness? What will she prioritize when she says, "Yes, thank you, both?"
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e597	I have to point out again that the government has not concluded on how to store us. That's exactly what the investigation is going to tell us. And then I fully agree with the representative that we should not buy from the world's poorest and fill up the stocks tomorrow. The investigation we have launched was launched before the war in Ukraine and Russia, precisely because the government parties believe that food security and food preparedness are incredibly important in the face of world unrest, but also in view of various natural events. We had a dry summer a few years ago that showed us how important it is to have a stockpile of cereals in Norway. The work the government has now started is short-term work, but also a long-term work in which we assess both local storage, regional storage and central storage. And then we'll come back to a decision on it in a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e602	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e608	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. A survey from Nav yesterday showed that almost half of the mothers took out unpaid leave last year. The mothers were on average at home without pay and parental leave for 16.4 weeks. The proportion has increased sharply since the spring quota increased from 10 to 15 weeks, i.e. in parallel with the introduction of the third of the parental leave. This is exactly what the Christian People's Party was concerned about. The third is not made for newly-baked families. In 2018, there was a broad majority in this room to introduce a three-part parental leave. One described this as an important step in ensuring real equality. Father and mother were to be equal caregivers. I don't disagree. That mother came back to work more quickly was important. It was emphasised that it was important that more people return to work. Now we see the result of an increase in the quota, that women take out unpaid leave. At the same time, the parental leave is not about equality for the Christian People's Party. It's primarily about the kids and the women who've been carrying the kids for nine months, considering how long the leave should actually be. We're not politicians who know best what families need. It really shows these numbers, I think. Families know best what's right for them, and women know best even how long it takes to get after a pregnancy. What does the Council of State think about the consequences the third division may have had of increasing unpaid leave among mothers?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e621	The answer is that I think a lot about it. It is a matter for me that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is concerned about. It is also important for me to say that the parental leave granted in Norway is expansive – we must be able to say that. He's good. First of all, it is a system that is designed for families to care for their infants. Nothing is more important than giving these families and children the best start. In the Hurdal platform, we have some points about this. There's a couple of things that we're going to do about the third division, one that's going to keep the feather ratio of the day, but there's also a point that a mother should be guaranteed the ability to breast-feed in line with health-care advice. We know that different organisations, for example: The midwife and the National Centre of Competence for Breast-feeding have been critical, because the device is today, many women do not have the opportunity to breast-feed in line with what is recommended, which is that at least one needs eight months off work in order to do it in a non-stressing way, to say so. And then I've also seen that it's not the first time it's been reported that there's been an increase in unpaid leave. I would say that the scheme should also contribute to gender equality, but unpaid leave is not the right way to go if a person is thinking about gender equality in the workplace. This might be because the third division doesn't fit the family. There is also an increase in unannounced leave among men, I see in the investigation. I will take this with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e630	I think it is liberating that the Council of State determines that it is still mother who is breast-feeding, in the name of equality. The children need to be breast-feeding, that's the children's privilege, and I think it's best for the children's health. There's nothing we can decide away from. We also know that the breast-feeding councils go further than what is the reality of the third of the leave. If we are to have children's best interests in mind, if we are to have the importance of breast-feeding and to have peace in that period of the eye – women are different when it comes to getting after pregnancy – what does the Minister for Children and Family think that there should be flexibility? After all, the results that have now come to light have to arouse some thoughts at the Council of State. Is the third we have, useful, or should we look again and say, this is about facilitating for children and mother, first and foremost, but also for father.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e637	The study will show that today's system does not match your child's families well enough. We have to go in and evaluate that. When it comes to breast-feeding, which is part of this problem — that is, it’s not a problem — it’s wrong to say that the thirds cannot facilitate breast-feeding in line with health-care advice. But then it's almost necessary to take out 80 pst. Parenticides, and most families with children well now — it also showed the study submitted yesterday — 100 pst. off-takes. Then you get a shorter leave. We have to look at the context here, but I'm concerned about a development that several families see fit to take unpaid leave in a scheme that's actually quite generous.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e644	It opens for follow-up questions – first take Pettersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e649	We've come a long way with equality in Norway, and we've been assigned to one of the world's most equal countries for years. But we also have challenges, and I don't think about breast-feeding in this line change. I'm thinking about economic equality. It's about the freedom to be able to control your own savings, your own everyday life, your own education, your own work and your own time. This recent survey carried out by Nav shows, as has been the case, that half of women were at home without pay and parental leave for 16.4 weeks on average. This may have serious consequences for retirement and other rights. The right-hander says in his program that we want an evaluation of the thirds, and this study builds up under it. The centre party says in its programme that when there are specific reasons, there must be a better possibility of transferring between parents. In that perspective, what does the Council of State think — and from an equal opportunities perspective — about this survey? Is this a particular reason why we might be spending time evaluating?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e658	Yes, I want to take that investigation and, together with the rest of the government, evaluate what we are going to go through now. But we have our points in the Hurdal platform, and they stand firm. I'm not going to talk about breast-feeding now, but it's a little bit about that we need more flexibility, and we're going to evaluate the way we can do it. The representative Pettersen has the right to do what he says: the investigation gives cause for concern when it comes to economic equality, because there is nothing worse for equality than taking unpaid leave and having to do it for different reasons. What might be positive about all of this is that families do well to do this for the child. So either one should not underestimate that there might be some reasonable choices made, but then maybe the consequences are not good, or they give cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e665	Grunde Almeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e670	It should not surprise anyone that there are a number of family challenges related to taking out the parental leave. But the answer to that can never be to deprive neither mother nor father of his individual rights. The answer must be to ensure that everyday life increases and improves the arrangements, not depriving rights, for which several representatives argue. An example of this is that today we have a system in which it punishes itself to have children at certain times of the year. If you have a child who is born in December and lives in a municipality like Oslo, where there is no surplus of vacant kindergartens, you probably won't have room until you have the right to do so, that is, in August of the year when the child is two years old. Then one parent often has to go 8-9 months without income. It's too long for ordinary families. My question is: What does the Council of State want to do to prevent parents from taking out involuntary unpaid leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e679	Part of the answer to it has to do with the kindergarten field, and it's the responsibility of another state council. But that's a bit of a reason why some parents take leave without pay, to which the representative Almeland refers. When the representative says that a person is punished for having children at different times of the year, no such thing can be said. It's never a punishment to have children; it's a great pleasure. But there are some disadvantages when it comes to welfare services, which have slightly different limits for which they are available for a month. When it comes to the parental pension scheme, the platform says that we should not do anything about parental rights, but it is also on the platform that we can look at how this can be put into practice, so that other concerns can also be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e688	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e702	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Industry, who is directly responsible. The question is proposed, at the request of the Minister of Industry, moved and answered before question 23, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 4, from the representative of Erlend Wiborg to the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 6, from the representative of Liv Gustavsen to the Minister for Finance, will be taken up by the representative Hans Andreas Limi. Questions 11 and 12 from Mr Bård Hoksrud and Mr Sivert Bjørnstad to the Minister for Finance respectively have been withdrawn. Question 14, from the representative Ine Eriksen Soreide to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 22, from the representative Hege Bae Nyholt to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is responsible for this matter. Question 25, from the representative Silje Hemdal to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education who directs him. The question will be raised by the representative of Mr Framnes. Questions 29 and 30, from representatives Marius Arion Nilsen and Sofie Marhaug respectively to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Industry, on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. The questions are proposed, at the request of the Minister of Industry, moved and answered in response to question 24, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e732	Question 1 has been moved and answered before question 23. We are therefore going to question 2 from the representative of Terje Halleland to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e740	‘State Secretary Sigrid Hagerup Melhuus stated at the biogas conference that the disputed levy on waste incineration is positive and that the ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste and the levy on waste incineration contribute to a more attractive solution for biological treatment. The industry itself rejects this. Has the Centre Party changed its mind, or can the Council of State assure the industry that the Government is working to close down, reduce or place the waste incineration tax elsewhere in the value chain already in the State budget for 2023?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e747	The government has an ambitious climate policy, and one of the steps we take to achieve our climate goals is to increase and extend the charges on non-quota greenhouse gas emissions. We want to stimulate Norwegian business to change in a more climate-friendly direction, and then we will do so in a way that at the same time allows climate policy to be socially and geographically fair. We need to secure Norwegian business, we need to secure activity, and we need to ensure that this is done in a way that is socially and geographically fair. We have continued the Solberg government's proposal for a tax on waste incineration, and then we have reduced other taxes. Because, as I said, we want charging policies to be both socially and geographically fair and to ensure jobs and value creation in Norway. The government parties announced on the Hurdal platform that we want to reduce charges for most people. We've followed up on this. We have reduced both the electricity and fuel taxes, compared with the Solberg Government's proposal for the State budget for 2022. When the Senterpartiet participated in the closure of the waste tax in 2010, the main consideration was the competitive situation against Swedish waste facilities, that one was afraid that Norwegian waste would be exported to Sweden. Sweden had recently abolished its waste incineration levy. Today, the situation is different. In Sweden, all installations are covered by the EU ETS and the Swedish waste incineration levy, and Swedish plants therefore pay more for their emissions than Norwegian non-quota installations, and therefore we did as we did this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e758	Thank you for your answer. I am a little unsure if I got an answer to that question. So, less than a year ago, the Central Party thought that this was a burden of concern, a charge that would lead to more waste, which would lead to greater exports of waste to the rest of the world. So I want to ask the Council of State what's going on about today's situation that has changed this – and repeat the question: Is it such that the Central Party has now changed its mind, or is the government going to work for this incineration tax to be abolished, reduced or put another place in the value chain?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e763	Since 2010, when we closed the waste tax, as the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV did, the world has changed. For what was the main challenge then, and the discussion at that time, was the concern for, for example: ‘Norwegian district heating system’ — to take my own neighbourhood, which has a district heating system on the Triangle heating system, inter alia. The settlement of Hamar with garbage. Then one was concerned that, with the difference in fees between Norway and Sweden, it was more profitable to export the garbage to Sweden. Now it's the opposite, because now there's higher total costs on the Swedish side. And then we have a goal of being able to develop new climate-friendly technology, like carbon capture and storage, and one of the big point emissions we can take there is emissions from the waste sector. If we manage to take emissions there, we can take less emissions in other areas, where the costs are also great for those affected by measures to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e770	Yes, then I just have to say that the answer is yes, that the Central Party has also changed its policy in this matter, and that one is no longer concerned about increasing waste. And the message to the industry is very clear, that the government will not liquidate the fee, will not reduce it, nor will it place it elsewhere in the value chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e775	What has been the Senter Party's point all the way, including in 2010, was not to create a charging system that made it more profitable for example. typical border areas, such as Eastfold, Hedmark and Trøndelag and many others, to drive the waste to Sweden and burn it there, because it would be negative for the environment and negative for value creation in Norway. When we are now trying to bring down Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, we are also concerned to see if we can manage to develop new technologies, for example. carbon capture and storage, which means that we can create more jobs and also values based on the actual resource that waste is, but that we are always going to have a charging policy that means that we do not export the waste out of Norway. For it is neither good business policy nor good climate policy to add to major exports of waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e785	‘The Minister of Finance pushed out hard in 2018 and said that a litre price of fuel between 17 and 18 kroner was too expensive. Now we are in 2022, and the former opposition politician has become Minister of Finance. At the same time, we have seen pump prices completely up to NOK 26-27/l. This is going hard on ordinary people, and the transport industry is in economic crisis with today's price level. Does the Council of State believe that today’s prices up to NOK 26–27 per litre are easier to live with than when he said in 2018 that pump prices of SEK 17–18 were too much?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e792	We now have a tragic war going on in Europe. This war has hit the hardest of all the civilians who are in Ukraine. We have to keep in mind that only one person is responsible for the accident we're now in, and that's Putin. In addition to the serious human consequences, the war has created uncertainty in Europe through the effects of the war. This is particularly pronounced at increased power prices. The war in Ukraine has also led to further price increases over the past few weeks, in particular on fuel. Fortunately, today's price level is a bit lower than the 26–27 kroner to which the representative refers, but it is still demanding for many even though the price of a litre is currently 7–8 kroner lower than many places. It is most likely that the high fuel prices to which Stordalen refers will not continue at that level. The oil price rose sharply in the days following Russia's invasion of Ukraine on 24 February and reached a peak of about $130 per barrel on 8 March. Then the oil price has fallen slightly back. Future market prices indicate that market players expect further reductions in oil prices in the future. A fall in the oil price will lead to a reduction in fuel prices. However, future price developments in crude oil, and therefore fuel, are uncertain. The government parties announced on the Hurdal platform that we will reduce taxes that affect people most, such as electricity taxes and fuel taxes. This government has followed up. We have reduced both the electricity and fuel taxes compared to the Solberg government's proposal for a State budget for 2022. The government is busy making everyday life better for people. In the case of changes to key framework conditions, it may be appropriate to consider adjustments also in other taxes and taxes. Changes in taxes and taxes will be assessed together, not least in the context of the State budget, and of course look at how, in sum, we will ensure that Norwegian families get better purchasing power, which is the goal of this government. People with normal and middle income, when this crisis is over, shall experience that they have come out as well as possible, and that purchasing power is going up, not down.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e805	In November, the average price of diesel was 16,76 kroner, and today it is about 22 kroner. Transport is defined as a societally critical industry. Among truck drivers in Norway’s Lastebileiier-Verbund, many are bound up in agreements which mean that they have no further billing for the abnormally high fuel costs. Several of these alerts now that they fear bankruptcy if there are no tax reliefs. For many of the transport companies, it does not help financially that the government says they follow the situation closely. They need relief as soon as possible. My question is therefore: can the Council of State ensure that, in this exceptional situation, he will take exceptional measures by cutting taxes, as the Progress Party has proposed? This is to save the transport industry, which is also an important part of our preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e810	The issue of the Stordalen shows some of the major challenge we are facing right now, because there are huge fluctuations with the same level of charges. For truck owners, the taxes on diesel are less than NOK 6 – approx. 5,50 kroner if you expect both the part that is biodiesel, and ordinary diesel per litre – and there have been fluctuations from 16 kroner to 25 kroner with the same charging. There have now been major changes in a very short time. What is going to be important for the government, and not least for me as Minister of Finance, is that over time we have to take measures to ensure that we have a transport industry and that ordinary people are able to get better purchasing power. Especially on electricity, we've done a lot of work to dampen the violent results we're facing as of today. We are also going to work on this up to the budget for 2023 and towards the revised national budget, to see if there are new measures that need to be taken to help particularly vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e815	I feel that the Minister of Finance does not answer the question. The transport industry is in crisis. The many people in the transport industry say of those who are bound up in contracts is that they are now afraid of bankruptcy – very close at hand. There is also no available capacity for either driver or lorry in Europe. My question therefore remains: can the Council of States assure that, in this exceptional situation, he will take exceptional measures by cutting taxes, as the Progress Party has proposed, in order to save the transport industry, which is an important part of our preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e820	The Stordalen shows that there are pressures in many places for the transport industry, and that there are also major challenges in recruiting enough people. When it comes to recruitment, we also notice overall in the business world in Norway that there is simply a shortage of labour now. It is good for those entering the labour market, but it can be challenging for individual enterprises. As a government, of course, we're going to be busy having close dialogue with the transport industry, too, to see what kind of grip you can do. We have had very close contact with e.g. the taxi industry, to see what kind of action we can take there to create more security and predictability. We have informed the taxi industry that we are going to do charging rather quickly, to correct some of the errors that have occurred before. We're going to have a close dialogue with the rest of the transport industry to see if there are tax and tax measures that allow us to create more security and predictability. Right these months, there's a lot of waves because of the war in Ukraine. The grips we're going to do are going to be long-term, they're going to stand and make us get a transport industry in Norway that feels they have a government that sees them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e834	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e842	My question is brief and simple: ‘Can the Council of State explain the cost picture of Norwegian enterprises up to 2022 compared to the government budget for 2022, including the effects of the tax increases as well as the price increases on fuel and electricity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e847	The war in Ukraine has a major impact on the whole of Europe. It is disturbing, and it is only Putin who bears the responsibility. For our part, we notice, among other things. this of increased commodity prices, especially on electricity and fuel. It's a big worry, and I understand that people are worried. At the same time, we in Norway are better off than in many other countries. We are quite confident of our readiness and that we do not get war here, and the prospects for the Norwegian economy and business are good despite the fact that the war in Ukraine leads to uncertainty, and that the prices of inputs such as fuel and electricity have increased. There is strong economic growth, and unemployment is low. Developments need to be seen in the context of the closure of infectious diseases and the exit of the pandemic. The economy reports high labour shortages. Nearly six out of ten companies in Norway’s Bank’s regional network reported that capacity constraints are slowing down — that is, not getting access to people. Nearly half of the contacts in the survey have problems getting staff with the right qualifications. That's the highest share since 2007. The government is pursuing a predictable and responsible tax policy towards business. In the Hurdal platform, we have stated that corporate tax should be kept at 22 p.m. throughout the landfilling period. The corporate tax rate is unchanged in 2022. In 2022, we increased the wealth tax and changed the valuation of various property items. At the same time, we have made changes which mean that there are fewer people paying taxes on wealth for 2022 than it was under the previous government in 2021 – because we are concerned that those with low wealth and ordinary income will receive less tax. The property tax is a tax on persons and contributes to redistribution. Investment taxes may reduce saving, but there is little evidence that property taxes significantly impair the ability of businesses to make profitable investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e856	Let me focus on one industry. The bakery and pastry industries are hit hard by the electricity prices. Several companies report that they can go beyond the end and fear of the future at today’s price level should be taken into account as normal. The protection of large groups through long-term electricity contracts does not apply to many smaller bakery businesses throughout the country. The government has not wanted to deal with measures that embrace enterprises in this situation. The truck industry is already mentioned by a previous questioner, but it is experiencing major problems with already very small margins when fuel prices increase by more than 30 pst. in a short time. We do believe that the Council of State is following and paying attention to the situation, but should not these companies get more certainty about the framework conditions in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e865	There's some extremes now. Although the big picture is that it's going well, it's always creepy with macros. Too many are doing well, and there is a great demand for labour. One of the most pleasant things is that some people who have not been in the labour market over time get into the labour market. We also see that some immigrant backgrounds that have been out of the labour market come into the labour market. It's very, very good. But when you talk about the large numbers, you should never forget the individual businesses. And one of the things that's really important is that Wold now lifts up with power. That's why it was important for us, point one, to make permanent changes in the fee level, as we did before Christmas. So it's not just going to be related to the single year, and it's going to be for those who are not in the highest price ranges. Point two: We're working on system changes, so that there's more security for bakers and others, too, to get better agreements at a lower price. That's what the government is working on, and we'll get back to that pretty quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e874	Then it is really appropriate to challenge the Minister of Finance whether he can be a little more specific on what actions he will take in relation to the two sectors I mentioned on my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e885	To take the baking strip: the part of the electricity bill that goes to VAT gets the baking strip back, but what goes directly to the government on the electricity bill is the piece of electricity tax. That's why it was important to me right away that I became a finance minister, to reduce the electricity charge, because it helps everyone. It was not made as a crisis response, it was chosen as a permanent change. So when the power price gets more normal, that's going to be lower, because we thought the fee level had become too high under the eight years in advance. Then we're also working on system changes, which I'm going to get back to Stortinget quickly, which I both believe and hope will enable businessmen who want more security around their power systems to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e895	This question, from the representative of Liv Gustavsen to the Minister for Finance, will be raised by the representative Hans Andreas Limi.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e900	«Members of the Financial Committee Frode Jacobsen stated in a debate in the Political Quarter of the NRK on 17 March on possible measures against the high fuel price: «The government will see developments», and further that «if it becomes $30-40 it is very high, and then we have to do something». [[Work Party]] Does the Council share the view that it is first at a fuel price of SEK 30-40 that the government has to – as it was formulated – ‘do something’, and if so what?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e907	This question from the representative Limi is in many ways the same as I answered in question no. 3. by Mr Limi's colleague, Mr Stordalen. Without repeating my whole answer again, I refer to the demanding situation we are now facing in Europe. There is a war going on which Ukrainians are hard hit, and this war has also resulted in high commodity prices, which in turn means that the fuel price in Norway has risen, despite the unchanged level of charges. I have a lot of understanding that it is demanding for many, and I agree that the price today is high, although luckily it is lower today than it was the day I got the question – if a raining percentage calculation is it fast 10-20 pst. lower number of places. I still believe that it is high, let it be said, so it cannot be misunderstood. A price of 30-40 kroner would be a very high level that would make everyday life very demanding for many around the country. Of course, the government follows the situation closely, and we will assess in the tax system whether action will be necessary, including the reduction of taxes. We just have to hope and believe that we don't get that kind of prices, because some of the reasons why prices have also become extra high in the weeks that have gone by are the combination of particularly high oil prices and low price prices. The oil price has been so high before, but the price of the crown has not been so low in combination with high oil prices, so it has given the particularly large results that you saw at least 14 days ago, as it was the very highest prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e916	Hope and faith are important, but that's not always enough. I have to remind the finance minister that the fees did not go down at the end of the year, the taxes on petrol and diesel went up compared to the level in 2021. We are in a difficult situation, says the Minister of Finance. That's exactly where we agree. The question is what we do to mitigate the difficult situation and what will be the effects for both ordinary people and not least businesses in Norway. The Minister of Finance has previously reacted to fuel prices of around NOK 17-18, and it was also given a guarantee that it was not appropriate for the Senterparteen to sit in a government that increased prices to NOK 20 litres. Now we see that it's for the longest time history, and prices have gone up violently. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: has the Minister of Finance thought about some immediate measures that can remedy the dramatic situation of very many people out there now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e925	What is the government's clear goal is that a family serving from 400,000 to 600 000 kroner, a normal Norwegian family where mother and father may work, will get a combined lower tax burden. That's the whole goal. If you take a family that lives, for example. In Stange, where I live, and commuting to the Oslo area, they're going to notice in the tax settlement that with the budget we provided, they're going to get about. 9 500 kroner less in taxes if one e.g. commuter to Oslo. That's a direct result of the tax treatment we provided this year, compared to last year's. In addition, if you have a young person in the kindergarten and add what we have done to other tax changes, a normal median family who lives, for example. on Hamar and where one is commuter, remain with approx. $12,500 with our tax treatment. That's the totality of the grips we've done. When we're going to get out of this crisis here, there'll be one thing we're concerned about, and that's that a normal family of ordinary incomes should be left with more, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e932	Now, estimates show that the price increases experienced on both electricity, fuel and, not least, food, in addition to rising interest rates, can lead to extra costs for a regular household of perhaps NOK 50000 to NOK 60000 a year, or even more. This means that the changes to which the Minister of Finance referred quickly disappear because the situation is quite different from last year's, when the budget was adopted. I have to really conclude that the Minister of Finance agrees with Frode Jacobsen from the Workers' Party that it is only if we see fuel prices of 30-40 kroner that there is reason to do something. Does that mean that the Minister of Finance will be satisfied if the price stabilizes at NOK 29 liters, or does he think it's too high – especially when you see it in the context of what's stated earlier, in the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e939	Here the representative Limi tries an old trick in the book, to put conclusions in my mouth that I have never said, never thought and never dreamed of – I would have woken up in the middle of the night if it had been the reality that I had started to think like that. The point is that I'm concerned that people should be able to feel better, and a lot of us depend on a car. That is why the aim of this government and me, as Minister of Finance, is that when you see it over time, it will not be more expensive to have a car in Norway. It shall not be more expensive for those who rely on, for example: to use the car far to commute. It will be cheaper for them, for example: depends on taking a ferry, because we're going to get the ferry prices down there, and it's going to be free of charge on some of the smallest routes. Our whole goal is just to help people out with their everyday lives. There are some extremes right now because of the war in Ukraine. They're extreme. We're going to do some long-term grip all the way to make people's costs not rise, and they're going to be left with more money in total. Then it's important to just remind the representative, Limi, that when you see, for example. electricity and fuel, recorded by the Progress Party, is the total fee level lower this year than it was last year when the Progress Party adopted it. But the important thing is that we have to make everyday life better for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e953	‘The evening post refers to the Minister of Finance on 12 March as follows: ‘Wedum goes a long way in promising that ordinary people will come out well despite alarming times’ and quotes that ‘–All the analyses we base on next year’s government budget show increased purchasing power. But these are troubled times." Can the Council of State state state what conditions and initiatives, in addition to the outcome of the ordinary wage settlement between the social partners, underpinning the statement that ordinary people will get well out and gain purchasing power?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e960	Unbelievableness in Europe is creating considerable uncertainty and has made the increase in commodity prices that come as a result of them in the short term arduous. In Norway, however, we are better off. Not only do we live in security from war, but we also do very well in the Norwegian economy. It's strong economic growth. Employment is increasing, and the proportion of the population in employment has not been higher since 2012. Unemployment has fallen significantly in the last year and is lower than before the pandemic, and we are approaching the very low level from the rise of the period before the financial crisis in 2008. Safe economic governance is important. Financial policy shall be used to balance the fluctuations in the economy, to keep unemployment down, to high employment and to ensure a stable economic development. Although we are now in a more uncertain time than usual, government estimates suggest that economic growth will continue in the year and next year. That's our clear goal, even if it's demanding. We're going to use the wisdom to steer the boat through this turmoil so that it's still growing. There is a particular growth in private consumption that drives total growth. After many have saved a little bit of money under the pandemic, it will also affect the economy. The real disposable income of households is expected to increase both this year and next year, so you will be left with more when you see the year as a whole. That's the whole government's goal. Employment will continue to grow, so that a higher proportion of the population will participate in the labour market. There is a basis for the recorded unemployment rate to remain low over the next few years. There is also an increase in the income of those who have been unemployed in the past or who have been out of the labour market for other reasons. That's good for them, and that's good for all of us. The government focuses on a fair distribution, and through tax policy we carry out a redistribution from those with high incomes and wealth to those with low and medium incomes. In line with the Hurdal platform, persons with income below SEK 750 000 have received lower income taxes, and the total level of charges for goods that are highly targeted to persons has also decreased. Wages and salaries are now in progress. I would remind you that a central part of income policy cooperation in Norway is that social partners are responsible for wage negotiations. The authorities are responsible for ensuring that laws and regulations facilitate the proper functioning of the labour market. Higher energy prices lead to increased inflation both at our trading partners and at home. Uncertainty is great about the further development in Ukraine and about what will happen to the oil and gas price in the future. The uncertainty is greatest about the gas price, and it can also lead to uncertainty about our current price. This is why we have launched a series of measures to protect households from this uncertainty, through the power support system and other interventions that directly affect people’s purchasing power. There has been a heavy investment that has been absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e979	Here again, I hear that the Council of States spends a lot of energy telling me that it's the situation in Ukraine that's solely the cause, but that's the way prices went up in good time too before the Ukraine crisis. I'm on the Labour and Social Committee and I get a lot of phones from people who are hard-working. Recently, I received a text message from a former drug addict who lives on our state livelihoods. For him, this situation of increased prices has led him to eat dinner four times a week. What measures will the Council of State contribute to enable him to eat dinner seven days a week?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e986	Now I don't know his specific case. Therefore, we should also have a good social security network in Norway that captures people with additional challenges, primarily through the social security system and, where appropriate, through housing support or other measures to help people with additional challenges. It's very important, and it's part of our social security network. This is why it was also important for governments to strengthen the social security network in general for people who have had challenges, such as: by introducing holiday pay for those who have been unemployed. It was one of the big bets we had before Christmas, which is a new bet, and which creates more security for those who have been available. The same applies to early retirement, which is also true of people who often have a slight unemployment relationship with the labour market for a period of time and who may not have been granted pension rights. That's why we introduced a pension from the first heads. And when we saw the extraordinary power price situation, we spent over 1.1 billion. kr on increased housing support just to those who have the most misguided advice, in order to ensure that they were not affected by the increased electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e993	The reason why I raised this matter is that for many who have little initially and perhaps have some needs-tested benefits from the state, a tax reduction will not necessarily be the decisive factor in increasing purchasing power now. For them, the most important thing – as he himself said – is that you actually get to do something about the fees here and now. Then the call to the Council of State is: Is he going to do something about the fees before coming to next year's government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e998	Now I don't know the person, but in general, for people who have such a long economy, increasing housing support will often be one of the most important things we do, because it's a targeted, direct cash transfer. As his financial situation is described, he sounds just like one who is absolutely entitled to housing support. That is why we increased housing support in both January, February and March, and we increased it in December as well. It is a much larger amount than any tax adjustment, and it is on a completely different scale than for example. half of the fuel price. We also lowered the charges on electricity, but it also becomes much smaller – although we reduced the fees on electricity a lot, it is a much smaller amount for the individual than for example. increased support for housing. So that's probably the most important thing, because then it's about pretty substantial amounts for those who get it. However, in view of the changes in fees, which I think are very important, for example: When we reduced taxes on electricity, I thought it was very important – it is still a smaller amount for those who are entitled to, for example. housing support.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1006	Then it was my turn to ask a question to the Minister of Finance: ‘The prices of energy and food have increased considerably compared to the level at which the State budget for 2022 was adopted. Can the Council explain the level of revenue from VAT on food, electricity and fuel this year compared to the estimate in the State budget for 2022, and will the additional revenue be used to reduce VAT for the same product groups in order to mitigate the price growth in society?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1015	As I mentioned earlier in the Questionnaire, but since the representative Gulati came only now, I have to mention it again – I see that he's wearing defense slips, and I'm wearing NATO pins, and we're probably doing it for the same reason – Europe is in a difficult time. It is especially demanding for the people living in the war, but unrest also has consequences for commodity prices in Europe. This makes some goods, e.g. Fuel and electricity have become more expensive in Norway. There's a lot of uncertainty about what this picture's going to look like in the future. Especially for fuel, prices have gone up quite quickly, but they can also go down quite quickly again. The State budget estimates the total income from VAT. One then bases expectations on macroeconomic developments, including consumption estimates. The estimates for 2022 are mentioned in the national budget for 2022. The value added tax, i.e. VAT, is a general consumption charge, and it is the value of the total consumption that is relevant to the income estimate. VAT revenue from the turnover of certain goods and services is not estimated. There are also no accounting figures showing VAT receipts from the turnover of food, electricity and fuel to households. We don't have that in our systems. The total consumption, and therefore the total VAT revenue, is affected to a small extent by changes in the prices of individual goods. So the increase in the price of electricity, fuel – food, too, if it turns out to be happening – is not expected to generate significant VAT revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1024	The Minister of Finance is quite right that there is a lot of change in circumstances that we could not foresee in the autumn, but some political decisions were still taken, including increasing the CO 2 tax, which in turn has increased, for example. petrol and fuel prices. This was something the Progress Party was opposed to, but the government chose to do. Looking back now on how things have evolved – will the Minister of Finance say that he believes it was still right to increase the CO 2 tax, which then got the consequence it had, with increased fuel prices, at the top of everything we see around us now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1035	If you look at the overall tax and tax structure of the government I'm a finance minister, the total tax and tax burden went down for people with normal and middle income. I think that was really great to do. In addition, we seized taxes and taxes that made them go down. If you look at what is being recorded today, the total tax pressure on electricity, fuel and having a car, it also went down compared to last year. My goal and the government's goal is that a family where mother might make $50,000 and father makes $500,000 will have more in the wallet when this crisis is over, no less. It's turbulent right now, and individual prices will be able to swing up and down all the way, but the whole goal – when we're going to look back at this time – is for a normal family of ordinary incomes to be left with more, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1042	We share the goal that ordinary people – most people – will be left with more, but there is no doubt that everyday life for ordinary people has become tougher, not least for those with a fossil fuel car, and perhaps especially for those who live in the districts and use the car a lot. The gas prices we see are extremely high, even though they have gone down slightly from the highest level. But what is the highest level the Minister of Finance can accept before he believes that measures need to be put in place for example. reducing fuel taxes, so that people get a more common level of petrol and diesel prices than what we've seen in the last few weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1049	When the government wants to look at the whole picture, we're in any case going to introduce new measures that will bring down the sum of the costs of an average family. Then there's a lot of different things you can do. One of the things that matters most to those who have high transport costs in connection with work is the commuting deduction. It's been increasing very strongly this year, and many people will notice the tax settlement that it helps. We also want to look at having a car, for example. the traffic insurance charge. It's a more hidden cost that lies in people's insurance premium. There are also other costs for the families we are going to look at, for example. kindergarten, SFO and other things that make people with normal and middle incomes notice that they are left with more in their wallet. Here we have to look at a range of measures, because that's the whole goal. It's especially important now, because the oscillations are so high. With the level of fees we now have, a few months ago you could fill fuel for 15-16 kroner per litre, last week it cost 25–26 kroner, this week 19 kroner. So it varies a lot. But when we introduce measures, the sum is going to make people's everyday lives better, not harder, even though it's demanding weeks now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1061	‘It follows from the government’s political platform that the tax burden on revenues below SEK 750000 is to be reduced, while overall the tax level is increased for 2022. How is the alleged tax relief granted on income of SEK 600 000 compared to expenditure increases that person is now experiencing so far in 2022 on fuel, food and electricity, even with the severely inadequate power support system?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1068	I thank you for the question. The representative correctly indicates that the government will reduce the income tax for them with income of less than NOK 750000, and that job we have done well through the 2022 budget. Those with income of less than DKK 750000 have received a lower income tax from the estimates of the budgetary settlement. For persons with income of around NOK 600 000, it was estimated that the income tax would be reduced by an average of approximately NOK 2 300. On the basis of this estimate, the price and salary index for the budget for 2022 has been used. The actual growth in prices and wages may differ from those used in the budget. The forecasts for price growth are an important part of the basis for wage making. TBU estimates a growth in the consumer price index of 3,3 pst. from 2021 to 2022. The SSB published similar estimates last week. It's a relatively high price increase, but a different picture than you get if you look at the energy prices alone. At the same time, we should not underestimate that the war in Ukraine gives great uncertainty about food prices too. The SSB also estimates that the electricity support system contributes to a significant reduction in price growth. It shows that the billions of the power support system have an effect on people. Wages and salaries are a relationship between the social partners. We don't now know what the salary growth in 2022 is going to be, and the front line is in mediation. The government does not interfere in the wage settlement. The SSB, on its side, has also created a small real wage increase in 2022, a real wage increase in 2022. If it turns out to be a real wage increase, people have improved purchasing power overall, even though the price of some goods has varied a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1079	It is nice that those who serve approx. 600,000 kroner, I'll have a little tax relief. Unfortunately, it does not help to reduce the charges slightly if the total costs of the same family and the same person are significantly exceeded what is being notified of reductions in fees. It is important now in the context of wage-fixing, which the Minister of Finance himself was involved in. Lower prices are then needed in order to dampen the pay gap. I fear that there will still be little action and a lot of empty rhetoric. We saw it all last autumn when we talked about electricity prices. It finally came to an aid scheme, but it came very late, and it is too bad. All the proposals promoted by the Progress Party were defeated. I wonder if the government has really learned from history, and I'm really afraid now that you won't do anything concrete about fuel prices in particular. Then I have a specific question for the Minister: Does the Minister of Finance want to reduce the user charge, remove the CO 2 tax, remove VAT on fuel – yes or no? And if so, when can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1089	In the case of the power support system, the Progress Party shall be pleased that they did not receive a majority in favour of their proposals, because they were so much worse than what came into the government's insurance scheme. Among other things, when it comes to the individual notes you would pay out, there would be much less support per household. When we came with the insurance scheme, the Progress Party supported it. That's good. They should be happy that they did not get the impression of the proposals they first proposed, because they had a smaller scale and had helped less. But then it's important to say when he says that it's empty words: let's take a family from Hamar, which is an area like Tor André Johnsen and I know well, where a commuter to Oslo. That family will get 9500 dollars less in income tax this year, compared to the manner in which the representative Johnsen created a majority last year. 9 500 kroner less in income taxes is quite a lot. In my world, there's at least a lot for a family with median income. If the family also has a kid in the kindergarten, they'll get $2,200 less in kindergarten expenses. And with the tax incentives we do, you also get less in fees. This family will then have approx. NOK 12 700 more because of the tax and tax penalties we did when we became a government last autumn. There's a lot of money in a normal family's life.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1096	I have to correct the finance minister here, because it is completely wrong that the power proposals we proposed repeatedly were worse than the government finally made. We wanted to remove the electricity tax, we wanted to remove VAT, and we also proposed a maximum price. There is no doubt that the last proposal we had there, on the maximum price, was better than what the government made. But I'm a little concerned that it's not just going to be talking here, because it seems like the minister at least has an ambition. I hear him say that you have to look at the level of fees a little over time, and then the minister tries to refer to the war in Ukraine and that of course it has led to high prices. That's right, but it's not just useful to sit and wait for everything to go by itself. After all, it's all now that people most need action. It is now that most people need a government that immediately takes care to eliminate important taxes — such as alcohol and alcohol. the excise duty on fuel or the CO 2 tax on fuel, as well as the VAT on fuel – before workplaces disappear. Will the minister do anything about it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1106	Tor André Johnsen is a representative who knows Russian relations very well, and he is well up-to-date on what is happening in Russia and Ukraine. He knows that there is a connection between the conflict that is happening there and the huge turmoil that we are now seeing across Europe. Then he says it's just talk, but $12,700 isn't just talking in the election district like Johnsen and I'm elected from and for a regular family living in Hamar, where a commuter to Oslo – like a lot of people do. They may be organized in a trade union, have a kid in a kindergarten and get $12,700 less in taxes. It's not talk – it's action, and it helps in a family economy. So I'm busy with one more thing: that we're not going to make a grab in the economy that makes interest go up too much, because it's also tough for a family with a lot of debt. I have that responsibility, too. But the tax and tax measures that the government is doing are going to help ordinary families with ordinary income, and that's also going to be the whole point when we're going to present new budgets: that it's going to help ordinary families with ordinary income, and that they're going to be left with more, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1117	‘To the evening post on 12 March, the Minister of Finance stated that ‘yes, we get higher oil revenues, but the Oil Fund has lost more than its revenue has increased’. Does this mean that there are short-term, unrealised fluctuations up or down in the fund’s returns and not the use of money above the State budget that will be decisive when assessing the scope of action?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1124	The state pension fund abroad, or the oil fund if you want, is our common wealth. The whole idea is that the big income we have now is going to benefit future generations. It is in this fund that the future pension of many Norwegian citizens lies. Since 2001, our fiscal framework, with the State pension fund abroad and the rule of action, has set out a plan to use oil revenues above the state budget while at the same time managing petroleum wealth in a way that contributes to stable economic development, is growth-promoting and benefits future generations. The State Pension Fund Act states that the country’s net cash flow from the oil business as a whole is to be allocated to the State pension fund abroad and that the funds in the fund can only be used for a transfer to the State budget following a decision in the Stortinget. The revenue of the Fund shall be entered directly in the Fund. Since 2001, the following guidelines, called the Action Rule, have been used as a basis for withdrawals from the Fund: The use of funds shall over time follow the expected real return on State pension funds abroad. It is necessary to pay particular attention to balancing fluctuations in the economy in order to ensure good capacity utilisation and low unemployment. So it's the fund value and not the current petroleum revenues that over time form the basis for the use of oil money over the state budget. The fiscal framework facilitates the maintenance of the real value of the fund for the benefit of future generations. This is the entire management mindset that has given us as a community a safe welfare today, but also for the future. The fund and the rule of action contribute to the protection of the State budget from short-term changes in petroleum revenues. The rule of action also provides for freedom of action in budgetary policy to counteract financial setbacks. The fund value is uncertain. In recent years, the return on the fund has been high, but so far this year the fund has fallen significantly. There is no guarantee that such a fall in the value of the fund will be recovered. Such a framework is practised, short-term changes in the fund value will not affect the financial policy mechanism. In assessing the amount of oil money to be spent in each year, the situation in the economy will be given great and decisive weight. On the other hand, more lasting changes in the fund value will affect the long-term funding contribution we can expect to receive from the State pension fund abroad. My statement to the Evening Item on 12 March was a reminder that the value of the fund has so far fallen more than the petroleum revenues have increased. This shows that not only does war and unrest have human consequences, but it also has a negative impact on State pension funds abroad. We can't know what's going on and how Russia is now going to act. As long as we still have war and unrest in Ukraine, there is great uncertainty about both the fund value and the future petroleum revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1148	It was 2 minutes and 20 seconds before the Council of State was close to answering anything. The council said that we know that war and misery lead to the state pension fund losing value and now we've got it experienced – but it's actually not safe, it's not safe. For the investment for the State pension fund: yes, for Russia it has fallen, but for other parts of the world it has increased. So it's not certain that it's true. If it's true that it's gone down, what if it's the opposite, what will the Council of State do? Will he spend more money? That's not how it works. This, in fact, must have been written by a bureaucrat and the Council of State read it out. That bureaucrat believes I have done quite a job of answering a question that is impossible to answer. If you flip the tile, if you say it's gone up, will it increase the chances of reducing the cost to most people? Or does not the opposite effect of what the Council of State says apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1153	The whole point is, if we take 2020, when the oil and gas prices were low, then it wasn't like we spent less so-called oil money into the Norwegian economy. Then we used the fund capital. We spent a lot more oil money because the oil price was low. And then we used it to secure the income of people, we created different insurance schemes for businesses and made a lot of steps to keep the wheels going when the pandemic hit. Now that the oil price is high, it's not like we're spending more money in the Norwegian economy for that reason, but we want to always rely on what we have in the fund, precisely because we put that money into the fund. It's not like we're adjusting from day to day the use of money here in the staging room according to the value of the fund, or the oil price. It's stabilizing, it's the unique model that has earned Norway very well, that we've managed to spend money. And then we take out money after what we think the economy tolerates, so that we don't get increased interest rates, increased price pressure and increased cost growth without getting an improvement in everyday life for people. The whole goal of taking money out of the oil fund is to make your life and my life better.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1158	We agree on the goal, but the point is that the Council of State has said something quite different. The question is whether he can put it into practice, but then the Council of State could not put it into practice, but came up with a completely different answer to what was obviously an opinion the Council of State really regrets. I'm a little tired of this, standing in the staging room trying to defend something that's impossible to defend. It is not an economist who would defend that claim. Why not then lie flat and say that it was a bad statement, or it was wrong? It is not for a minister to insist all the time on what is idiotic, insisting that this is wise. Despite the juxtaposition of the government council on the exam assignment, I'm going to reverse the issue. See that the state takes more money into taxes and taxes from people most and everything else is similar: Does the Minister of Finance think that this will create more or less pressure in the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1165	Here the representative Tybring-Gjedde has a sort of premise that I disagree with what I myself said to the evening post earlier in March, but I am not. What I said then was a fact – the fund value had fallen, because the fund has lost large amounts because of the economic turmoil. Income from increased oil and gas prices has not increased as much as the fund value has lost. Ergo, of course, we've seen that the fund value is losing more than the revenue has increased. Fortunately, it's not like you directly connect the day to the day-to-day value of the fund and the revenue from the oil and gas sector to what we spend on money in the storeroom. That is the whole point of the rule of action – that the representative Tybring-Gjedde and I are going to have the freedom to adapt economic policy to what reality is like. That's the point, and that's what I said in the evening post. It's not like anyone has claimed that Norway is getting so much richer in the war. I think that's a completely wrong premise – everyone is losing on this war, and in the short term we're also losing fund value on the state pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1179	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1193	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1201	‘The Council of State has stated that it is not certain that Norway will be richer as a result of exceptionally high energy prices as the value of the oil fund has simultaneously fallen from the highest level at the end of 2021. In view of this, can the Council of State explain whether the oil fund intends to sell itself into the stock market at a now lower value and thereby realise the loss?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1208	The share of the State pension fund abroad is fixed and there are no plans to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1213	In that case, this is a good starting point, but then we come to the problem that the stock market can fluctuate. In times of crisis, this is usually the case, which also reflects the value of the oil fund. There's little doubt that the energy prices, as they appear now, are biting themselves firmly and over a rather long perspective is going to be significantly higher than what has been normal in the past. Is it not then very difficult to say that Norway does not necessarily get richer in the long term as a result of these changes? It seems quite clear that energy prices are unfortunately going to remain at a high level, and expectations should be that the stock market will gradually normalize and regain the value it had earlier in 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1220	What we're going to be a little aware of when it comes to the whole debate on whether Norway is getting richer or poorer is that almost no matter what perspective you take, it's a little pointless. The whole of Europe is becoming enormously poorer by the war we now see, because it creates enormous suffering, human suffering, and then we have to be able to orient the boat through it in the best possible way. Thanks to Norway's high oil and gas wealth, we have a larger tool to make it possible for people in Norway, when this crisis is over, to experience that they have come out better than they do. Chronicly, it is true, as was also said to Tybring-Gjedde, that the fund value of the oil fund has lost more than we have earned on increased oil and gas prices. How the fund value evolves in the future is completely impossible to say. It has a long-term perspective. This winter we have lost more than we have won. I don't like that perspective, because we're all going to lose on this war, whether we're going to earn or win in the short term economically or weekly, but we've also lost financially in accounting terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1229	Like the Minister of Finance, I fully agree that this is a terrible situation we are experiencing in Europe. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is a cruel event that has intolerable human consequences. But that's not what I'm asking questions about, because we can agree on that. On the other hand, the theme of what we are discussing now is whether we have room to deliver on what I perceive the Central Party promised in the election campaign. I was myself in many debates with the current Minister of Agriculture, who promised the voters in Troms that diesel and petrol prices would go down – at least they would not increase. Then it seems quite strange that when we have economic muscles to meet that requirement, you choose not to do it. Why should the voters in Troms at all have any confidence in the Center Party in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1236	One of the most important things for which any government is responsible, and to which a former Minister of Justice and Defence ought to have a conscious relationship, is the security of the people. When we've been and are in the middle of a crisis, as we are now, the heaviest priority we immediately did was to notify that we're going to spend more money on defense. We believe that there was a clear need for it, and that some of the priorities that have been done in the past have not been good enough. We therefore announced that we would increase the defence budget by 3 billion. kr. Also on civil protection, we believe that some of the priorities that had been done earlier were not good enough. That's why we announced 500 million. kr. Plus, there's food safety. When they have seen the totality of the tax and tax policies of this government, the families in Troms – where there are many with quite common and medium incomes; it is not a high income area – will experience a lower tax and tax burden and that they are left with more in the wallet. So Troms and Inner Troms, which is a heavy defence area, will be concerned that they now have a government that prioritises defence and preparedness and national security.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1246	‘The government announced on 27 February an increase in humanitarian aid to Ukraine of up to SEK 2 billion, declared on 7 March that this was in addition to the humanitarian budget, and indicated on 9 March a decision of SEK 1.75 billion in addition to the aid budget. The details of the distribution will not be available until May. The humanitarian crisis in Ukraine is now taking place and is getting worse every day. How much will the government actually increase humanitarian aid to Ukraine, will all the funds be allocated further, and why is the distribution of funds not already ready?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1253	The Russian warfare in Ukraine has enormous consequences and is hitting the civilian population hard these days. According to the United Nations, more than 3.5 million refugees from Ukraine. The number of internally displaced persons is even higher. Ukrainian authorities, the United Nations and other humanitarian organisations report on major humanitarian needs, such as water, food, medical assistance and other vital equipment. Emergency work is very demanding and risky due to ongoing combat actions. From the beginning of the war, the government has made it clear that Norway will take responsibility and stand up. We decided on 27 February that Norway should contribute 2 billion. humanitarian aid to the Ukraine crisis. The Government is concerned that the announced humanitarian aid to Ukraine should not be at the expense of other humanitarian crises. That's why the government proposes that $1.75. The aid budget shall be administered. Norway has been quick to pay contributions so that humanitarian efforts can get under way. About 1 billion. have already been paid out of the humanitarian budget. The Government has the distribution of the remaining humanitarian contribution for evaluation. The distribution will depend on how the situation develops and what needs arise on an ongoing basis. The government supports the UN, the Red Cross movement and the efforts of Norwegian humanitarian organisations in Ukraine and neighbouring countries. These are the partners we know respond quickly and effectively to the humanitarian needs we see, and work to ensure the protection of civilians. Norway also contributes through the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, the Union Civil Protection Mechanism, the UCPM. This is a mechanism whereby Ukraine and neighbouring countries can report needs for material and technical medical assistance. To date, Norway has contributed surgical and medical consumables and medicines to Ukraine. In addition, Norway will now send ambulances and personal protective equipment. The first patients have arrived in Norway after the start of the medical evacuation scheme for patients from Ukraine. NOR-EMT, the Emergency Medical Team, is also ready to send out on short notice if necessary. Norway has recently offered tents and field beds for a refugee response, at the request of Moldova. New requests from Ukraine and neighbouring countries are being considered on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1268	It is good that the government now clears that there will be an additional allocation. It has been a little difficult, I think, not only for the parties in the Great Britain, but also for the humanitarian actors, actually to get a grip on what has been the government's policy. There have been some different signals. So then I just want to take the opportunity to get a confirmation that this means that the $1.75. This is now the case, not to be taken from elsewhere in the aid budget, but to be added to the aid budget as an additional appropriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1273	I can reassure the representative that the dialogue with the humanitarian organisations is very close and good and running, and that the channels we are using have responded very quickly to the needs that they are receiving from the ground. I just need to stress the importance of operating through channels and organisations that have reception apparatus, contacts and organisations on the ground. I can confirm – again – that 1.75 billion. The government has said that it will come as an addition to the aid budget. Of course, this will have to be handled in a practical way through the forthcoming budgetary rounds, and I am sorry if the representative has not felt that this was clearly communicated. At least it has always been the government's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1280	I think one of the things that contributed to creating confusion was the message that went out to Norad to stop all payments for two weeks, apparently to make repriorities to this humanitarian budget. I fully support the government's decision on a large humanitarian allocation to help Ukraine. For a long time – even before the war broke out – the right has called for more humanitarian aid to Ukraine, because there was a humanitarian crisis in the east even before this war broke out, as a result of Russian warfare in eastern Ukraine since 2014. But it's positive that this is now resolved. My next question is related to the distribution of funds. I also agree that it makes sense to use actors and channels that actually have access in an extremely demanding situation, and I would also like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the efforts of humanitarian organisations. But as much as 1 billion. So kr shall not be decided until after May/June. That's a very long time. The question is whether it can be done more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1287	It is unlikely that the decision on further allocation will be taken after May. In that case, it depends on a misunderstanding. These assessments are carried out on a continuous basis as the needs are reported. So far we've distributed about half of the funds, to 250 million. UKL 350 million for the UN regional response plan. kr to the Red Cross movement and 100 mill. kr to material via the EU. We've also paid 144 million. to Norwegian humanitarian organisations in their emergency work. And as I said, the other distributions of funds are carried out continuously, and we are flexible and responsive to the needs that we get reported. With regard to the freezing of Norad, this is a completely different matter and has nothing to do with the humanitarian means. This is about getting an overview of payments over long-term assistance to ensure that we have the necessary room for action during the demanding time we are facing. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1294	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1302	‘Fishing health report 2021 shows that more than 54 million salmon died in Norwegian mermaids last year. That's the highest number ever. In addition, 30 million puree fish and 30 million salmon died in the cephalopod phase. The fish die from, among others: lice attacks, viral infections, stress and injuries. The conditions are a clear violation of the Animal Welfare Act § 3, which states that «Animals must be treated well and protected against risks of unnecessary stresses and stresses». What will the Council of State do to solve animal welfare problems in the aquaculture industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1309	The fish health report, published annually by the Veterinary Institute, is an important temperature indicator of whether the industry takes good care of the fish. Unfortunately, this year’s report shows that the health and welfare of farmed fish is not good enough. Too many fish die in the mermaids. This has both an ethical and an economic dimension. Food-producing animals must have lived well and markets deserve products where animal welfare has been adequately protected. Animals that die before slaughter also represent resources that are lost. If we're going to continue to be the world's leading salmon producer, we're going to have to bring mortality down. And if we are to ensure continued growth in the aquaculture industry, we are also dependent on good knowledge of the risks of disease and welfare problems. This knowledge shall be the basis for the requirements of, inter alia, the legislation of the authorities. disease prevention and welfare. To make it clear: requirements are already set out in the legislation on fishing welfare throughout the farming cycle, from the establishment of farming facilities, through operation and transport and for killing/slaughtering. Examples include water quality requirements, monitoring and care requirements, fish density requirements and pre-kill stunning requirements. Compliance with the requirements is the responsibility of the industry and compliance with the requirements shall be monitored by the Food Safety Authority. The Hurdal platform is explicit that the Food Authority should be strengthened. This initiative includes the entire value chain, both blue and green. Fish farming is also animal husbandry. Fishing welfare will therefore also be a natural part of the forthcoming animal welfare announcement, which the government will promote for the Storting. It is natural for me to consider, forward to the notification, what new measures it may be appropriate to introduce if the industry does not reduce mortality. The marine industry is of major importance for Norwegian food production and value creation. The government will facilitate further growth in order to create more secure jobs, more processing, greater value creation and increased export income. This must be done in a predictable, controlled and sustainable way. Finally, let me be quite clear: it is not sustainable that so many fish die before they can become food.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1324	I thank you for the answer, which does not contain the obvious, namely the requirement to reduce mortality in the farming industry. Despite all the rules and plans to which the Minister for Fisheries refers, more fish die in the farming industry than ever. The numbers are enormously compared to all the other industries. On 11 March, the fishing blade writes in its management position: «Fisker Minister Bjornen Schjäran [[Ap]] The follow-up question is then: can the Council of State now confirm, here and now, that requirements for much lower mortality will be included in the traffic light system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1336	First of all, we have demands today, and as I said in my answer, the requirements we have also apply to fish. Fish welfare is required throughout the rearing cycle. The regulatory framework is clear on who is responsible for ensuring good fishing welfare. It's the industry itself that has. We have announced in the Hurdals platform that we will evaluate several indicators in the traffic light system. It's a pretty complicated job that we're doing the most serious thing. Other environmental indicators have been assessed in the past, but to date it has not been found appropriate to introduce more. Not all environmental impacts are suitable for inclusion in an action rule for capacity adjustment at permit level. The challenge is that the impact must be measurable and be sufficiently closely related to the volume of production in the production area defined. This is complicated -- we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1347	Thank you for some kind of answer again. It is quite surprising that the Council of State cannot respond to the fact that mortality in the farming industry must be reduced to a measurable level, that measurable mortality requirements must be imposed. And it's striking to hear that he's talking away from the most elementary goal you can have in an industry that uses animals, that's a demand for maximum mortality – especially in an industry that has extreme mortality. Why does the Council of State not want to confirm that low standards for maximum mortality are to be imposed in the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1354	I think I answered very clearly, and I actually think that if you're going to represent each other when you're in a discussion at the Storting's pulpit, the minimum requirement may be to reproduce each other correctly. I've said very clearly that mortality is too high, that mortality has to go down, and I've also justified it. So I say we consider more measures. One is that we have notified a big message about animal welfare. There will be a current place for action. And I have also said something about how we in the Hurdal platform have established that we want more indicators in the traffic light system. Then I hope that the Biggest and Biggest Representatives also respect the fact that it is quite complicated with the requirements we have to set for environmental indicators, based on what they are to be used for. We are now in a legal case with farmers in production area 4, who have sued the State for exactly what is involved in whether the indicator and what is around it meet targets. This is a work that we take most seriously. Death has to go down, and we're going to deliver policies that respond to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1368	This issue is also linked to the traffic light system: ‘One panel of international researchers recently carried out an evaluation of the traffic light system that regulates the growth of the aquaculture industry. The panel is critical to the accuracy of the current system and provides clear recommendations for needed improvements. How and how time will the Council of State follow up on this evaluation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1377	The traffic lighting system was proposed by the government of Solberg and received broad support in Stortinget in 2015. The system has been developed continuously since the first entry into service, in 2017. Just before Christmas, an international committee delivered its report evaluating the scientific basis of the traffic light system. This report is part of further development. The overall assessment in the report is that we have a system that is unique in the world in converting scientific risk assessments into policies. It's important to bring it with you. The Committee concludes that the traffic light system is based on an in-depth scientific assessment of available knowledge and that this assessment has been carried out professionally. At the same time, the transition from expert assessments to policies is difficult, especially when complex science is to be translated into something that all of us who are not researchers should be able to relate to. Therefore, in its summary, the Committee highlights in particular how uncertainties relating to methods and results should be addressed and communicated. In addition, the Committee points to the need to clarify the role of expert assessments in the system. The Committee has identified several improvement points in the scientific evaluation of the effects of salmonidosis and made concrete recommendations. The work of the Committee is an important basis for meeting the government’s clear ambition to further develop the traffic light system and the follow-up to the evaluation has already begun. The Traffic Lighting Management Group, consisting of the Institute for Marine Research, the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research and the Veterinary Institute, shall now closely review the report together with the Evaluation Committee. They will then make a recommendation to the Ministry on the concrete follow-up. The time course will depend on what the specific recommendation is. The marine industry is a very important industry for Norway. Through the traffic light system, we need to ensure continued growth in the industry, while at the same time taking care of the environment. The traffic light system is a developing system, and we will continue to improve it, both by improving the current load indicator and also by assessing the inclusion of several environmental indicators. It shall provide predictability and ensure that we provide growth in those areas where the environmental impact is acceptable, which is important for the legitimacy of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1394	I thank you for your answer. I could probably imagine that the Council of State was a little more specific about the exact time you will go about evaluating these improvements and taking the necessary measures. The reason why I'm asking is that in several reading posts in the Fishery magazine, recently such progress has been called for, and it's been pointed out that the Marine Research Institute on its website has said something to the effect that it will look at the future, or the next few years. Is the Council of State in agreement that such involvement is a little passive?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1399	I said in my reply that the evaluation is in progress. So I think it's wise, given a system that's so fundamental that we have sustainability, but also fundamental in the sense that it's going to be predictable and manageable for all actors, including the nutritionists, that we're doing such an evaluation of this kind of process in a thorough and good way. Therefore, today's answer from Storting's pulpit will have to be as reserved as it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1407	‘The WHO and UNICEF express great concern about a strong increase in mental health problems globally, especially among children and young people, as a result of the pandemic. In 2019, the government of Solberg presented the first strategy for non-infectious diseases in development cooperation. The government of Støre has said that mental health should be given priority. How does the government intend to follow up this priority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1414	Thank you very much to the representative, Mr Schou, who drew attention to a very important area. The government contributes to the fight against non-infectious diseases and to mental health in low-income countries, including: through the World Health Organisation. The WHO includes mental disorders among the non-infectious diseases. We primarily support efforts aimed at strengthening primary health services in low- and middle-income countries, including the prevention and treatment of non-infectious diseases and mental disorders as part of universal health coverage. Furthermore, work is supported to reduce the risk of non-infectious diseases related to unhealthy diets, air pollution, tobacco use and harmful use of alcohol. Norway has supported the work of the WHO on non-infectious diseases through both earmarked support and general contributions. Norway has, inter alia: supported the WHO Special Initiative on Mental Health. This initiative helps to increase awareness of mental illness in some countries and to include mental health as part of the prevention and treatment provision of primary health services. Several civil society organisations supported by the Norad and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also integrated mental health as a focus in their health programmes, both in development and in humanitarian settings. Data from the WHO show that the need for psychosocial support and mental health care has increased significantly in the wake of the pandemic, as the representative rightly stresses, and as experienced by other humanitarian crises and disasters, for that matter. Humanitarian support where mental health is included in response work is therefore also an important contribution in this context. Furthermore, WHO data show that the covid-19 pandemic has led to weakened health systems in most countries, including health services for people with mental illness and other non-infectious diseases. In our further work on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response, the government will among other things. focus on strengthening health systems with a focus on both infectious and non-infectious diseases. It is important here that mental health services are included. The government believes that mental health efforts are a particularly important part of the reconstruction after covid-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1429	The Hurdal Platform mentions health as a focus of government development policy, and that is positive. However, mental health is not mentioned, and it is worrying given the extent of mental health disorders globally. Why is mental health not mentioned as part of the government's field of activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1434	Psychiatric health is elevated high in the Hurdal platform, but not necessarily under the development chapter. There are many things that are not necessarily specified, but which are nevertheless central to Norwegian development policy. Development policies work on a variety of issues. The government has decided that we want to continue the strategy adopted under the previous government, called Better Health, better life: efforts to combat non-infectious diseases in Norwegian development policy. However, we are now considering some adjustments to this strategy, including: in the light of the covid pandemic, and not least the need to strengthen the nexus between humanitarian intervention and long-term development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1443	It is very positive to hear that you want to continue what was in Better Health etc., which was established by the Solberg government. There may also be a need to make adjustments, because the world is changing with a pandemic. I hear the council say it should be given priority, but I still don't know how. So I challenge the Council of State to be more concrete about how the government will follow this up, and how the Storting will be informed about the government's efforts to promote mental health in development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1448	As I said, through the continuation of the strategy, a number of initiatives and channels continue to focus on mental health. But I might perhaps stress that the need to integrate mental health into the general work we are doing to build health systems in developing countries may be the most important thing. ‘mainstreaming’ this into local health interventions is perhaps the most important, and there we know that many developing countries are far behind. This, as the representative now acknowledges, must be seen in the light of the covid pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1456	‘1. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence were present during the solemn reception of Norway’s first P-8-A Poseidon maritime surveillance aircraft and, in clear order, acknowledged the importance of new maritime surveillance aircraft and the plane station of Evene. This is a quantum leap for Norwegian maritime surveillance, and for the first time in over 30 years, the defense receives a new maritime surveillance aircraft. Is there any indication that phase-in of aeroplanes will not comply or will not provide the expected increase in maritime surveillance capacity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1463	Many call Norway the eyes and ears of NATO in the north. The new maritime surveillance planes, P-8A Poseidon, are a formidable and impressive platform to be used to monitor our sea areas. There is no doubt that these planes will provide Norwegian and Allied authorities with a better basis for decisions. The planes are very important for our preparedness and crucial both for our safety and for the safety of allies in the north. Norway has purchased five P-8 aeroplanes, and all aeroplanes are delivered by Boeing according to an agreed delivery plan during 2022. Two aeroplanes have already been delivered and taken over by Defence Equipment, while three aircraft are being manufactured. The first plane, Vingtor, was delivered and taken over at the end of November. The aeroplane is still in the United States for the implementation of national adaptations, which will be done over time with all Norwegian P-8 aeroplanes to ensure that they can take over tasks currently performed by P-3 Orion and DA-20. Aeroplane No. 2, Viking, was taken over in the change of month January/February and became the first Norwegian plane on Evenes. The aeroplane has MPA capacity equal to the US P-8, and will eventually return to the United States for the implementation of national adaptations. Then, in 2020, the Defence Manager decided to establish a temporary facility for reception and operation at Evenes until the permanent facility is ready around the turn of the year 2023/2024. The temporary facility has been completed and was put into service when the first P-8 aircraft landed on Evenes in February. Like the representative, I also have great expectations about the capacity of these planes. I am convinced that the P-8 will be able to meet the expectations we have for them as soon as the defense has phased in the planes and started the operations. So in today's security policy situation, we aim to also increase the number of flights and increase activity in the north, increase alertness in the north. That also means that we're flying as much as we can with P-3 from Andeya. There is a formidable job for us to keep high production on P-3 oreon, and I want to pay tribute to the work done there. So also the security policy situation we're in, that I've seen the need to do more on P-8 too to get them phased in a good way earlier than what's in the original plans. In order to do that, we acquired, among other things, now, through exceptional allocations, more sonar buoys than was planned in order to maintain that capacity in a better way, so that we actually increased the capacity of P-8 at an earlier stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1480	I would like to thank you for an interesting and reassuring answer, for the fact that the delivery of these planes is on the route and it is assumed that the expected power and capacity are out of the basis. In the response, it appears that the Council of State will take the initiative to give the aircraft additional capacity related to sonar, and then it will be natural to ask: in the light of developments in the North Fleet – which today consists of far fewer seagoing vessels than it did during the Cold War, but the more small vessels that can operate in coastal waters, and also amphibious vessels – will the Minister take the initiative to equip the new surveillance aircraft with missiles, which they can actually, in order to combat this type of ship?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1485	In coastal areas, it will mainly be F-35 which will have the capacities that will be available in this area. The next acquisition of P-8 is torpedo. P-8 is initially a maritime vessel intended to be able to fly far-off, have sonar to detect submarines, and also be able to operate submarine control if necessary. This means that torpedoes are to be acquired as soon as possible. And then at some point there'll probably also be an evaluation of further pollination of the P-8. But I will not be able to give any concrete answer to that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1490	As the minister had in mind, these planes have a very important task of monitoring our vast sea areas. As he said, they make up a good part of what is our contribution to NATO in the north, but they also have a very important role nationally in being able to give us a good understanding of the situation and make the right decisions if the situation requires it. This is five planes that cost the neat sum of 11 billion. kr, and it is important to maintain the capacity of the aeroplanes at all times. The question is: does the Minister assess that these aircraft are adequately protected at Evene's flight station?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1495	I think the representative is well aware that in the long-term plan there is also a prerequisite for us to acquire air protection, because that is some of the protection we are going to provide to our planes. It is so far not in place, it is an acquisition to be made in the future and within the current long-term plan. The air protection we rely on today is a mobile air protection system, the NASAMS system, which is easy to mobilize when we need it, and which can be mobilized and also used at Evenes. It will be the current situation at all times that determines where we are going to have air protection in place in relation to the needs we might have. The plans provide for the protection of these aeroplanes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1504	My question is as follows: ‘There are county meetings seasons these days, and we record some decisions, such as deviations from the government as a policy. For example, the Vestland Labour Party has decided to settle what was settled in 2012 and rejected in 2013. Is it such that these decisions affect government policy in the field of transport, or can we use the same signals as before the season of the county meeting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1513	The framework for government's transport policy is provided by the Hurdal Platform, and further follow-up to the National Transport Plan 2022-2033 is an important task for the government. Transport policy and priority of resources for transport are themes and issues that concern and affect many throughout the country. That's why, of course, we're always open to listening and receiving recordings. The debate on social development is good, but the government is following the lines of policy drawn into our political platform and current transport plan. In the case of the entirely specific project E39 Stord–Os, the government assumes that the State Road Administration will continue to work with the State regulatory plan for the project based on the adopted municipal plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1522	It is good that the Council of State says that it is based on the plan that is in place. Of course, it creates some challenges when the leader of the Vestland Labour Party in the government college and has adopted such a resolution, and when tone-giving spokesmen and old spokesmen on Facebook say that finally we have a new policy in place that will allow us to now figure out an alternative to the line that is attached. Hence, it creates some uncertainty. But then the Council of State can state that the Workers' Party in the West does not give the impression of his ambitions to realize Hordfast with the middle, decided line, and that the resolution is then a game for the gallery. It's just an internal medicine case for the Western Labour Party, and not something that the government intends to follow up or make changes based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1527	The representative is also a member of a political party, and just as little as the County Council meeting in More and Romesdal has moved the representative's party to change its stance on the Moorax in government, it is necessarily such that it changes our position on this matter. There are quite ordinary party political processes, party democracy, and in party democracy there will be various decisions over time. But the government has not changed its position due to the Western Labour Party's annual meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1532	Now it is not that the Progress Party's annual meeting has been composed of members of the government. As a result, this decision has created more uncertainty. But then the Council of State can confirm that the resolution has been read and rejected by the government, a hold on to the same policy as one has had for this project, and that all the local Labour Party summits in the West have given the impression that the government can now change its policy, has only been a game for the gallery, and that everyone who has our concerns based on the County Council can now relax and look forward to planning a four-field E39 in the middle line between Stord and Us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1537	Nor do I perceive that the decision in the Western Labour Party prevents us from moving forward with the process that has already been taken on the basis of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1545	‘Working for more is our most important job. Therefore, Nav's services must be as accessible as possible to people who need them, when they need them. Someone needs to get in touch with the Nav physically, and must have the opportunity to do so. At the same time, digitisation offers new opportunities to make assistance better and more accessible to more people. What action will the Council of State take to strengthen Nav's digital availability?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1552	As pointed out by the representative Stokkebø, the labour and welfare management must be accessible to all users. Services shall be tailored to the needs of users whether physical meetings are necessary or digital solutions are more appropriate. More and more users expect the door to Nav's services to be from home – via the internet or on the phone – and digital services to be popular and used more and more. It therefore facilitates the provision of help to more people through different network solutions, whether they are organised information, self-confidence, dialogue services or self-service solutions. Not least, we have seen how important this is in situations where management is experiencing great progress, as under the pandemic. The audience asked for, and was more than previously, a police officer over the Internet. To a large extent, video meetings or webinars were used, and most municipalities also used the new digital application function for economic social assistance and the corresponding transparency solution for users in your NAV. Digital services that facilitate increased self-service and automation are also crucial in the release of resources for closer follow-up of those who need assistance to get into work. The modernisation of ICT in the labour and welfare sector is a long-term development. During the Stoltenberg II government, this great promise was given priority and set in motion. The modernisation programme has subsequently been followed up by successive governments with broad support in Stortinget. The aim is to develop good self-service solutions and provide opportunities for digital communication with the administration so that those who prefer it can meet their needs from home, when appropriate. Project 1 and Project 2 of the modernisation programme have been completed. Project 3 is still ongoing and will end in 2022. As the representative is aware, this development is now continuing in Project 4. Project 4 shall develop modern system solutions for labour-oriented services and large performance areas such as day-to-day pay and work-clearance payments. The project was started in 2021, with broad connections in this room. In 2022, 316 million were granted. NOK to finish Project 3 and continue Project 4. As pointed out both by previous governments and by the Storting, these are large and complex development measures that are well-established and quality-proof, as required by the state’s project model. Project 4 will be implemented up to 2025 with a cost framework of 1 billion. kr. I am concerned that we are making it possible for this modernisation to continue with the quality and efficiency shown by the Labour and Welfare Act in recent years. It is necessary for the management to be available, to make use of technological opportunities, to provide good services and to be efficient and reliable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1567	Thanks for the answer. First, I have to say that I am delighted to work and cooperate with the Council of State, in the Committee and on the Stortinget. It is very good that we share the view that Nav should be more accessible also digitally. But then my question is, if the council thinks Nav is going to be more accessible, why does the government think it's a good idea to cut $13 million. kr in the investment in digital debt advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1572	As I said, I am concerned that we are making it possible for modernisation to continue with the quality and efficiency shown by the Labour and Welfare Act in recent years. I'm going to follow it up. As far as the representative is concerned, I am concerned that all services should be available on a digital level also in the labour and welfare seat. We follow up that work of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1577	It's nice to hear the Council of State and the government talk about sharing ambitions about more digital availability, and that one will continue many of the efforts that were also being made on the Right Guard. What I think is a little sad is that you can't tell me anything more about the consequences it's having cut off in digital debt advice. There are a lot of people out there living in a debt crisis that they don't get out of, that needs our help, and that deserve an answer -- especially now, when interest rates are going up. I'm trying again: why does the government think it's a good idea to cut $13 million. kr in the digital debt advisory service, which would help more people and reach more people? What are the consequences for users?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1582	I share the view that debt advice is an entirely elementary service that is followed up, among other things. through the welfare seat and the municipalities, which also have debt advisors in their corps. With regard to digitisation, which the representative asked for, some of the projects are now in a closure phase and have been completed, while Project 3 and Project 4 continue. I have no reason to believe that it is going to go beyond the debt advice that is actually happening. On the contrary, I would say that it is an important task to continue also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1591	‘In the fatherland friend, we were able to read recently about a young boy with anorexia who experiences a round dance in the system. The relatives tell us about lack of competence, professional disagreements and lack of feedback. What will the Council of State do to prevent this kind of mental illness and ensure that young people are adequately provided with treatment, and how will the Council of State ensure that there are a sufficient number of treatment sites and that the health professionals involved have adequate and appropriate skills?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1598	Young people who develop eating disorders may experience loss of youth, and eating disorders may develop in a serious direction. Therefore, we need to prevent and provide early and good help when there is a need. The representative refers to relatives who experience a lack of competence, professional disagreement and lack of feedback. It shouldn't be like that. These patients shall have a good quality patient profile. Recommendations on the content, competence, coordination and interaction are described in the guidance and course of eating disorders. Mental and health care services in the municipality provide treatment and follow-up of eating disorders. But there's a need to strengthen the offer, there's no doubt about it. In recent years, there has been an increase in the number of people referred to and receiving treatment for eating disorders. Unfortunately, they wait a long time before seeking help — often more than five years. The treatment has good effect, and we want more people to get help. Health regions need to assess the need for different types of treatment within their care-care responsibilities. In the budget for 2022, we have facilitated increased treatment in mental health protection and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment, with 350 million. more on the basic funding needed by hospitals to give priority to this. We have also strengthened the allocation of mental health interventions as a low threshold of health interventions in municipalities. The government’s forthcoming mental health escalation plan will be important in order to strengthen capacity and treatment in services. It shall include health promotion and prevention, more accessible and close assistance and the provision of them with serious and complex challenges. We have also announced that we will strengthen health stations and school health services. The government will also increase the population’s competence in the care of their own mental health. These are important interventions that show that we will provide better accessibility and previous help for people with mental health challenges, including young people who are struggling with eating disorders. But the most important thing we can do is to prevent children and young people from developing eating disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1613	According to predictions on mental health protection, a strong increase in those who will need help related to eating disorders is expected. We also know that this is a challenge that has increased under the pandemic, and that the people who are dealing with this are saying that those who are seeking help are getting younger and younger. The branch post has also recently highlighted the fact that in my part of the country there is a large increase in the number of children who need help. In Agder, in 2021, 87 children were admitted to treatment, a close doubling from 2015. In the planning of a new psychiatry building in Kristiansand, ten daily places are planned in the juvenile clinic, a measure that may be necessary once the course of the disease has gone so far. With the knowledge we have, there is a great distance between the capacity and the need. How will the Council of State ensure that there are a sufficient number of treatment sites for children to meet the specific needs of eating disorders?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1628	All mental health care clinics for children and young people and adults provide services to people with eating disorders. All health regions have established regional units for the treatment of particularly severe eating disorders. Ordinary doctors and municipal health services also have important tasks in treatment, referral and follow-up. This government has announced an escalation plan for the entire mental health field. When it is planned for new hospital buildings, we have also said that we should not continue the reduction of daily places that we have seen in the last 20 years. It's stopping on our guard. The goal is to increase capacity. I am very happy that mental health protection has managed to increase its capacity in 2021 and 2022, despite a pandemic, because we see an increase in the number of people who need mental health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1637	The boy in Kristiansand, to whom I referred, was written even though the weight was similar to that he had when he was previously judged to be life-threatening underweight. Parents report a lack of communication between different services, and different treatment providers do not follow planned treatment plans and measures taken by other institutions. It is also reported that there is a lack of competence for eating disorders in regional health services. Sørlanden Hospital itself has taken the initiative to review a sample of cases to check treatments offered to them, and they have also established an intensive provision for children with eating disorders. That's very good. Nevertheless, management and employees in the ABUP say that they find it difficult to get access to people with the right skills in order to provide the best possible offer. What will the Council of State do to ensure that personnel with the right and sufficient competence are available to health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1646	Ensuring enough qualified health professionals is one of the first issues that this government has addressed. We have set up a Health Care Commission to provide us with an analysis and measures and recommendations on how we can train, recruit and maintain health professionals for the need for our healthcare in the future. Unfortunately, we're on our heels within a number of professionals. We have a lack of both psychiatrists and specialist nurses. Unfortunately, the previous government has not achieved its own candidate goals in training this type of specialised staff. This is what we have started with, both above the hospital budget – it is the hospitals that are responsible for educating our specialists, both doctors and nurses – and through the work of the Health Personnel Commission, which is the strategy in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1654	This question, from the representative Hege Bae Nyholt to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1659	My question is: In the Hurdal platform...No, I'm going to get right on the question, am I not? – What action will the Council of State take to secure the law in the current year, linked to... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1664	The representative is allowed to include the introduction to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1669	Thank you very much. The Hurdal Platform states that the offer of sport shall be available to all. At the same time, at the end of February, Nav reports that the year’s allocation of means of activity for the participation of disabled adults in physical activity has been exhausted. There is a clear indication that the scheme is underfunded, and this deprives many adults of the possibility of being in physical activity. An evaluation commissioned by the previous Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs shows that the scheme has a positive impact on the quality of life and health of people with disabilities. [[The President clubs.]] In addition to promoting public health... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1676	Now the representative has to take the question. So one repeats that question and the reason that was sent. That's what you're supposed to do. But take the question itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1681	The question is: ‘What action will the Council of State take to secure this right in the current year’.» And I'm sorry, both President and Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1691	That's it -- it gets a little bit hesitating.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1700	‘The Hurdal platform determines that sports offerings shall be available to all. At the same time, at the end of February, Nav notified that the year’s allocation of means of activity for the participation of disabled adults in physical activity has been exhausted. It is obvious that disabled persons should be as equal and have the same opportunity as others for active leisure. What action will the Council of State take to secure this right in the current year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1705	The government is working to ensure that the sport is accessible to everyone, and in order to achieve that, we will, among other things. build more installations, we work to reduce prices and equipment pressures, and this helps to lower the participation threshold for all. The arrangement to which the representative Nyholt refers falls within my remit. It was introduced on 1 July 2014 and is a framework managed activity aid scheme for persons over 26 years of age. Activity aids are aids specifically developed for disabled persons in order to be able to participate in physical activity. Such aids are, for example, sit-skis, hand driven bicycles and gears with and without auxiliary motors and/or support wheels, and these aids are also available to persons under the age of 26 but then under other rules. For the current year, 55.1 million has been allocated. kr for this, and in recent years the scheme has become better known among users. It is in itself positive, but does not result in the framework allocations being extended. Because of the high demand, so many decisions had already been taken in February that the framework was tied up. This aid scheme is governed by the Law on Social Security. It is a condition that the person has a permanent disability and that the means of activity is necessary and appropriate for the person to perform physical activity, either alone or with others. Although the system is governed by the Law on People's Security, it is a framework rule. The seat of employment and welfare must therefore stop granting applications when the framework is unbundled. It is positive that the scheme is now more well-known than it was in the past, so that more users are provided with equipment that makes it easier for them to be active, and any increase in the allocation of the current year scheme will be assessed by the government in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1719	Thanks for the answer. The positive thing we can say that the appropriations are already empty is that this is obviously a popular scheme used by several, as the Council of State also pointed out. At the same time, it points to the need to increase the allocation, and therefore I would like to ask a little more about it. In previous years, the budget has been approximately 100 million. when combining the scheme and the appropriations in the revised budget. Given the popularity of the measure, it is therefore safe to assume that the need is even greater than it is. The Joint Organisation FFO, the Youth with Disabilities and the Cooperation Forum of Disabled People’s Organisations request an additional 100 million. kr in relation to the RNB in order to ensure the scheme and its duration. Can the Council of State guarantee that she will work for an amount in the RNB that meets such a need to a sufficient extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1724	First, I would like to say that I am well aware of the requirement of user organisations, both the Organisation for the disabled, the Association for the Disabled and their youth organisations. As I said in my previous answer, we will assess this forward to the revised national budget. But I also want to say that the cost of activity aids has been increasing since the scheme was introduced on 1 July 2014, which is probably due to the fact that the scheme is also better known among the target audience. It is in itself positive, but since this scheme is a framework, the Labour and Welfare Act must reject applications once the appropriations have been used up. In the last four years, appropriations have stopped during the calendar year, and any change in the appropriations will therefore be assessed in the context of the annual budgetary process, including the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1731	Thanks for the answer. People with disabilities are a heterogeneous group like everyone else, but although there are great variations, we know that for the group as a whole, the larger living conditions challenges are compared to the rest of the population. It appears, among other things, that at low employment rates, lower levels of education, more difficult access to services and less participation in society. In brief, this group meets on larger and smaller barriers that exclude them from participation in social life in different arenas, including sports. There is obviously no simple solution, but the means of activity are measures that help to break such barriers. However, the scheme may become a barrier in itself if it is not predictable and accessible to all. Several stakeholder organisations request that the scheme become part of an estimate allocation in the future, like all other instruments. Would the Council of State consider such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1736	I share the representative's view that this scheme is important for quality of life. The questionnaire also referred to the evaluation report delivered by Oslo Economics in June 2020, and it points out, among others. that the scheme is of high value because it has a positive impact on the quality of life and health of users and that it thus promotes both public health and equality. There is also reason to believe that one of the reasons why this scheme was now empty is that users are also applying earlier than they did before. But I can do nothing but repeat what I have already said, that any change in the allocation – including whether there should be continued framework management or an estimate allocation – I will consider in the context of the annual budgetary process, including the work on the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1741	Then we're going to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1749	This question, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to Minister of Industry Jan Christian Vestre, who is directing the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1754	One could first of all believe that Vedum had become tall and dark, but it was the Western Council that answered. ‘Møre and Romsdal are one of the largest export counties in the country, and it was a great pleasure when the previous government decided that the Export Council should be moved to Ålesund. Now, the Ap and S government has decided that the export council should move from Ålesund to Oslo, in other words, away from the large export areas and absolutely everything other than “near people”. Can the Council of State explain why the Central Party's electoral mandate 'near people' no longer seems to be the Vedum Government Council and the Central Party's policy?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1763	Thanks to the representative for the question. The government is going to use the whole country, I can promise the representative, even when it comes to government jobs. That is why we are now building a very solid export environment in Ålesund, and we are facing the expectations of new jobs there. I have spent a lot of time in Ålesund, Sunnmøre and on the west coast after I became Minister of Industry, and they have a lot to contribute to the government's export reform, «All Norway Exports». That is also why we are now strengthening Export finance Norway's presence in Ålesund and Innovation Norway's presence in Ålesund. Nor is it a coincidence that our first two strategic national export efforts are sea wind and maritime sector/yard industry, which goes right into the heart of the value-creating community of More and Romsdal and the West. This government has a very high level of ambition for exports and export promotion. We're going to increase Norwegian exports except oil and gas by 50 pst. by 2030. That is why we have a bad time and we have to get moving quickly. The Solberg government's response to these challenges was to create another public establishment. Then I would like to remind you that we already have 17 different nutritional instruments that recently had more than 180 active instruments in use. They do a good job separately, but when I meet the companies – and I meet a lot of them, over 200 of them after I joined – I get feedback that we need to simplify the tool, not red tape it further. That's why, as a first step on the way, we've launched a door-in, a digital platform where all companies can turn to one place to get help with what they need. But this is just the beginning of a major simplification and improvement effort to make our instruments better for businesses, so that they can spend time on value creation and not on public bureaucracy. To set up a new establishment, as the previous government wanted, and to make it work well over time, it takes time, and it's cost-intensive. This government has ambitious goals; we are impatient, we will see results quickly. That is why, together with the business community and the social partners, the NHO, the LO and the others, we have developed a new export model that will take us to the goal more quickly. That is why we have established the National Council for Exports. So we haven't moved anything. We're setting up a branch, which currently has no employees, and then we're setting up a national export council that has members from all over the country, including Tore Ulstein from More and Romesdal. In that Council there are also members from the Nordic countries, from the Viken, from Rogaland, Vestfold, Telemark and Trondelag: All of Norway exports. In support of their work, we also set up a secretariat in which representatives of the social partners, relevant departments and actors are invited to contribute, i.e. the whole of Norway is exporting. With this new model, we ensure that export promotion is speeded up, complete, coherent and anchored. We use taxes on value creation and not on building up even more public actors. It helps to simplify, it helps to make it easier for businesses to identify, and that's how we contribute to the highest possible value creation in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1783	When I last checked, the value creation here in the country is largely along the coast, and More and Romsdal is one of the largest export counties. When this was established, it was said that the new entity will contribute to a stronger cooperation with the industry for the highest possible value creation for Norwegian exports: ‘It is an important task for Innovation Norway to help increase and differentiate Norwegian exports. We are established with a strong regional office in Ålesund, which facilitates close and close cooperation with the new Export Strategy Council in order to ensure a good, comprehensive offer to business throughout Norway, says CEO Håkon Haugli of Innovation Norway.’ What is it that all of a sudden there has been something completely different, half a year later? So, is Innovation Norway just completely overrun, and the big commercial belts where the value creation in Norway is to a large extent actually happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1793	As I said, we have made this new export reform in close cooperation with the companies, with the business community, with existing tools and not least based on all the input we have received. I do not fully understand the question from the representative, because, as I said, Ålesund will become an even more important spearhead in our export work in the future by moving jobs from export finance to Ålesund. We are strengthening the presence of Innovation Norway, and we are creating the jobs it has created expectations of, but we are not doing it by creating another public establishment. I thought, with all due respect, that the Progress Party was concerned with reducing public bureaucracy, and when our companies then tell us that we don't need more public agencies, but that we need better instruments that take us to goals faster, that's what needs to be important, and not that we get another budget, with another government, another logo, another HR system, and another administration and accounting system that costs money, instead of spending money on value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1802	I'm one of the few, maybe, who have a nutritional background, there's probably not many in Stortinget that have it, I've been working in industry, etc. I've been following closely a nutrition cluster on Møre, which is among the best in the country, and we've worked hard to move government jobs out to the regions, out of Oslo. I also understand that the Labour Party and the Centre Party have been clear before, and when Innovation Norway is as clear as they were when it was established – it is only a little over six months ago – it is very strange that this is suddenly not the policy of the Centre Party and the Labour Party. Is it really the case that today's government with the Center Party and the Labour Party does not want to move out state jobs, to where the market is, and where the business is actually? I think I can answer for most of the companies in our area: we want the state workplaces to where the business actually is there, and not in Oslo. Is that policy just removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1809	I'll try for the third time to answer the same question. So we're strengthening the export presence in Ålesund, but we're doing it within existing instruments. We're not creating new public agencies, because it's wasted money. I note that the export reform to the government, called ‘Hele Norway Exports’, has been greatly disrupted in the business world. NHO cheers on this. LO cheers on this. I think I saw that the Association of Nutrition in Ålesund thought this was a good idea. Innovation Norway is included, etc. Tore Ulstein, who is an important contributor to this work, is with us on. He can really do something about value creation on the coast of Moravia and in More and Romesdal. This is a model that takes us to the goal more quickly and contributes to the fact that the resources we spend on export promotion are being used as export promotions in businesses and not by creating more public agencies. Then, since I have ten more seconds, I would say that we also put forward five other ambitious measures, such as measures such as industry, among others. in the West, has asked for a series of years that the previous government did not deliver. Now we've implemented it in five months.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1816	Then we go to question 23.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1824	It was nice to right the previous line change. Perhaps the Council of State should have a conversation with its colleague who's going to set up seven new county municipalities, but this we're going to have to do another round. My question is as follows: ‘The government has high ambitions for growth in value creation and exports in green future industries such as battery, hydrogen, ICT, marine and tourism. In this way, access to relevant competences will be a critical factor. How will the government ensure these future industries sufficient labour and skills to achieve the target of growth in value creation and exports, in a situation where unemployment is low, other areas of society also need more employment and business experience as difficult to obtain professional skills from abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1833	As the previous exchange of lines made clear, we have just launched the government's ambitious plan to export the whole of Norway. During the spring, our major industrialisation plan on the Green Industrial Lift Roadmap will be positioned in Norway within hydrogen, sea wind, CO 2 management, batteries, forest and wood industries and other green projects in the mainland industry – a real green industrial leap, from word to action. The representative is quite right that then we need highly skilled labour, both skilled workers, engineers and the supplier industry. We need research and development. We just have to be the best at what we're doing. Then we're going to have access to clean power and a number of other big, important projects. But competence is undoubtedly one of the most important things. We need to do this if we are to make Norway a zero-emission society, contribute to green and profitable conversion and make use of our entire country – we have no choice. We choose to go into this with a positive attitude, that we may have the best assumptions in the world to succeed in this, among other things. Because we have a lot of expertise in Norway. The efforts we are about to make are so ambitious that they will require a whole new inter-departmental cooperation, both between the departments, the social partners, industry, the academic community – the instrumentism – and the government has decided that we in the Ministry of Economic Affairs should lead this work, which is therefore a collaboration across ten different departments. The government's ambitions will require proper skills and good access to labour, and our objective, of course, is to contribute to the highest possible value creation within a sustainable framework throughout the Norwegian economy. In order for us to do that, we must also facilitate both capital and labour to flow where there is the greatest return on application. When new, profitable industries emerge, the workforce and their skills will be given new applications than they have previously had. We saw this during the fall in oil prices from the summer of 2014 onwards, as engineers and skilled workers from the petroleum sector gradually moved into new industries and got new green jobs. It's the transfer of labour that we also see when the economy goes well. It's positive. The government is also actively working to meet the future's skills needs, not just to meet today's needs, and we are concerned that industry has access to the right skills and sufficient labour. It is a work that also affects the Ministry of Knowledge. We're working together well, and we're now working on identifying the skills we're looking for, not least into the green industry promise. There is then a wide range of measures that we need to consider. Of course, some of it is about decentralised education, the fact that it is a digital offer also for people in the districts, and we need to look at competence policy in general, the right and duty of continuing education and the possibility of filling skills through the workplace. We believe that we should also look at the competences of those who come to Norway. Not least, we now have a situation with many highly competent people from Ukraine. We need to identify skills quickly and ensure that D numbers and work permits are put in place so that they can contribute to society. So there is a whole range of measures that need to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1851	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which had a lot of good reasoning that we share. Some of the challenges with the answer are that the Council of State does not respond to what is going to happen in the medium and long term in order to acquire the skills we need, because it is about education, it is about gradually re-schooling and moving people from the industry down the road, but that is not immediately gone – oil and gas industries are going to be big for years to come. I think it's interesting to go a little further on what we're going to do in the short term if we're going to take seriously that, for example, we're going to build a large battery industry and a large sea wind industry by 2030. The labour supply will then become critical over the next two to four years. I've got feedback from a lot of people I've talked to in the business world, in many industries, that it's really easy to pick up highly skilled labour from abroad, even outside the EEA, is becoming extremely important, and that it's too difficult today. So I want to ask you one more time: what concrete thing can we do to become more competitive internationally when it comes to the labour we need in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1858	This concerns several issues. As far as batteries are concerned, it is already in progress that several specialised schools have merged and set up a battery vocational school, through various sectoral programmes. Such industry programmes honor this government. I am absolutely sure that the Left also thinks that this is a good proposal, and we would like to support several such initiatives in the future. As regards labour immigration and competence, next week, the Storting will decide on a proposal that the representative knows very well. Our starting point is that there are few or no formal obstacles today. But what I hear when I travel around is that there may be some barriers – perhaps interpretation of legislation and regulatory practices – and I would say that the government should be listening, we should be humble. Of course, we would like to discuss proposals that can also contribute in the short term to make this more flexible. But if there is now a need for major regulatory changes, I guess another question, which I'm sure we'll come back to next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1865	I thank you again for your answer. It is possible to have a constructive dialogue on this area, because we are, in fact, a few of them overseeing it. I also think it might be right that there might not be so many formal obstacles, even though there are some that can be cleaned up. I think the main problem is that there is increasing international competition for labour in some of these areas — in ICT industries, in some of the other new technologies — and that other countries are beginning to focus more and more on strategies to attract the workforce, the founders and the investors. We see that many other European and Western countries have started to get, and perhaps we have become watered down that we are a country people come to anyway because we are the world's richest and best country – and then we're forgetting how difficult it is to actually achieve the competition. So I hope the Council of State can answer that yes, here we actually have to take new initiatives, not just by law and regulation being in place, but by actively recruiting the key competences we need in the new industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1872	I take that challenge with great joy, and we would like to have dialogue and cooperation on good proposals here. And then I just want to add that it's another big challenge in the Norwegian economy now. It's that, even though we have low leave, there's a large proportion of the population that's completely out of work. One third of the adult population is outside. As a social democrat, I will always go ahead in the 1st May train to stand up for social security networks and a harsh welfare state that takes care of those who for some reason cannot work. But I also meet a lot of people who are out of work, who want to participate, who are not allowed to participate, and this is wasted with resources. Had we had the same employment share — that is, the proportion of the population in employment — in 2019, before the pandemic hit us, as we had in 2008, during the beginning of the financial crisis, there would have been 150 000 more jobs. So in the last 15 years, we've almost lost an oil industry in employment. There's a waste of society's resources, and there's a big impact on the individual. So an active policy for job creation and inclusion will be one of the most important things for this government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1880	‘Russia is a major producer of metals and minerals. Out of the thirty critical raw materials on the EU list, Russia produces eighteen. These are critical in technology and in the green shift. For example, Russia produces 25 percent of the world’s vanadium. There are large incidences of vanadium in Norway. But the development of the mineral industry is hampered by bureaucracy and lack of capital. What does the government do to speed up the Norwegian mineral industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1885	I would like to thank the representative for a good question. The war in Ukraine has created uncertainty and major challenges for Europe and the world. The Norwegian authorities strongly condemn the illegal attack on Ukraine. It is a serious violation of international law and has dramatic consequences for the population of Ukraine. The conflict has also contributed to uncertainty as to the need for important minerals essential for the implementation of the green shift is met. The representative shall show, inter alia: to the world’s need for vanadium, of which Russia is a major exporter. Norway has this type of resources, for example: there are large incidences of vanadium in Rogaland counties. There are certainly other occurrences around in our beautiful country. We are aware that the company Norway Mining is working for and planning to extract this mineral. The representative asks what the government is doing to speed up the Norwegian mineral industry. Then again, I just want to make it clear that access to mineral raw materials, minerals and rare earths is a central prerequisite for success in the entire green shift. Therefore, it is important for us that there are good framework conditions for the mineral industry. We're now working on a mineral strategy. It shall be completed during 2022. We have great ambitions, and our goal is to develop the world's most sustainable mineral industry. We work broadly with industry, with organisations, with partners, with research communities, and not least with environmental protection organisations and the Sameting, to get the most around the table to see how to gather on an offensive strategy for the future. A well-functioning mineral law is of great importance for industry, and it is also an important measure to ensure good framework conditions. A NOU will be submitted with proposals for amendments to the Mineral Act. It's coming on July 1st this year. And we will work to ensure that the law becomes a good tool for good and sustainable resource management for the benefit of society, the environment, the climate, value creation and future jobs. Although Norway is in many ways dependent on commodity imports to our process industry — which we are also so happy with, and in the case of nickel, phosphate, manganese, titanium and a number of others — I would like to stress that Norway cannot simply add up to importing important minerals. It has shown us the war in Europe and Ukraine in a serious way. Mineral nutrition is important for Norway, and we have a responsibility to extract the minerals that are needed ourselves, and it must be done in a sustainable way. Therefore, we need to facilitate the realisation of new mineral projects within a sustainable framework. We also need to remember that through our process industry, we have great competence in the processing of minerals and their application, which will be important for the conversion. The link between minerals and industrialisation is therefore important. In the coming years, several projects are being planned. Our legislative work and work on both the mineral strategy and, in particular, the battery strategy, which we are also engaged in, will help accelerate this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1904	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it was very interesting to hear that the Council of State has such a public aggressive approach to what we are facing in an incredibly important industry. I'm glad to hear that. In 2016, Norwegian minerals had a value of approx. $2,500. kr for what was on the ground in mainland Norway. Then the starting point is that in relation to the studies that have been done, we've only examined about 50 pst. of the country. So we actually have to put some money into it as well. And then we have the socket too. On the Norwegian pedestal, an assessment of at least 1 000 billion has been made. kr. That said, there has also been a certain increase in capitalisation from 2016 to today, so the values are probably many times higher. And when you process this, the value might be 20 billion. kr. The questioner is... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1913	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1918	We agree on the last one. Unfortunately, there was no question. I can only say that this is very important towards European value chains, and we are in close dialogue with the EU and other European countries that are also concerned about their being less dependent on China, for example, and are more concerned with ensuring strategic autonomy on some important minerals and resources. And there we know that Norway has outstanding resources, and I believe that when we can also do it in the Norwegian way, with social sustainability, environmental sustainability, respect for natural resources, respect for international law and with stability around the framework conditions, we should definitely seize that opportunity with both hands. But I also want to add that mineral nutrition and mining have been associated with some attention and some disagreement about the environmental consequences. Therefore, it is also very important that we get all the parties around the table – including the environmental movement – in this important work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1925	I'm going straight to the problem. In Finland, a mineral fund of 5.5 billion has been established. kr. It has helped create a lot of jobs. Is there a model that the Council of State can imagine to be based on commercial basis for as well as launching new projects? At the same time, in the case of concessional treatment, today, 12–15 years are going through a concession. For example, could it be introduced under the Ministry of Oil and Energy to take responsibility for the whole process, instead of having four or five departments in charge of implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1932	Yes, we are now considering different tools to identify both the resources we have in Norway, where those resources are, and where we can extract them in the best possible and most sustainable way. Of course, we also look at concession treatment, the processing, who is responsible, whether or not some processes can happen in parallel, and of course how this can be done in a way that is as valuable as possible within a sustainable framework. All these questions I hope we get addressed in the work on new mineral law. As I said, there's a public investigation going on. We'll get an answer to that soon. Then I hope it can contribute to a good and informed debate. It is good that many people are interested in this. So, as I said, the government is working with a mineral strategy that involves us widely. We invite you to open dialogue. Everyone who has something to contribute there is cordially welcome to promote recordings. And of course we will then consider what it is possible and desirable to go further. But that we have great ambitions in the mineral field, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1939	We're going to go to question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1947	This question, from the representative of Mr Arion Nilsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1952	This is starting to become a habit. This is the second time in a row we meet when I ask questions to the Minister of Oil and Energy. But today it was a good coincidence. The question is: «High record oil and gas prices provide huge revenues to the State. The same high oil and gas prices, combined with Norwegian taxes and VAT. at the top, also provides record electricity and fuel prices in Norway. In the debate on 8 March, the Council of State stated that the government prioritised electricity support for households, but did not support it at high fuel prices. Most people and businesses are struggling a lot now. Can the Councils clarify whether more support for the fields will be provided, or whether the current support regime is all that the government is planning to do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1961	Thank you for the question. Energy prices, as we all know, have increased significantly through 2021 and into 2022. In particular, this has resulted in an increase in electricity prices. The war in Ukraine has also contributed to further price increases now, in particular on fuel. The oil price rose sharply in the days following Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine and reached a peak of about $130 per barrel on 8 March. Then the oil price has fallen slightly back. We also look at the pump prices. I drive past the gas station every day and see that they go up a little bit, and they go down a little bit. Now they've gone down a little bit. Energy markets are uncertain, but future oil price reductions may appear to be expected by future market prices. Of course, we don't know that, but at least it's worth bringing in the discussion. A fall in the oil price will lead to a reduction in fuel prices. However, the future price development of crude oil, and therefore fuel, is, as I said, uncertain. The government parties announced on the Hurdal platform that we will reduce taxes that affect people most, such as electricity taxes and fuel taxes. The government has also followed up. We have reduced both the electricity and fuel taxes compared to the Solberg government's proposal for a State budget for 2022. We have also compensated the drivers for the increase in CO 2 tax because we believe that there should be fairness in climate change and that we need to take into account that there are geographical differences. Not everyone can drive an electric car today. Due to the exceptionally high electricity costs in the last few months, we have also introduced comprehensive measures to remedy the situation. There are temporary support schemes for households, which have been strongly strengthened, for agriculture, sport and voluntary organisations, as well as, as I said, the reduced electricity tax rate. We are continuously assessing the consequences of the increase in fuel prices and how this affects ordinary people. For example, if you run 15 000 km per year with a car of 0.6 litres per mile, an increase of 5 kroner per litre will be an additional cost of 375 kroner per month. Some common families are noticed in Norway. But the extra costs of increased electricity prices, before the electricity support system, were much higher. It was therefore important to give priority to power support. We can also, especially if, overall, we are not restrained in fiscal policy, now have interest rate increases. As the representative knows, households will then be able to increase their monthly interest costs by much more than NOK 375. Any changes in taxes and charges should be considered in a comprehensive manner in the context of the State budget, so that we can see the coherence of fiscal policy. We will later present revised national budgets. It is then also natural to consider any changes in the fuel tax in that context. We have sent a proposal to extend the electricity support system for households for March 2023. There is also an obligation on the part of the government that we want to help ensure that clean and reasonable energy remains a priority in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1981	That's exactly why we're planning to reduce the price driver's increased electricity prices and fuel prices. It will reduce the risk of interest rate increase. It is true, as the Council of State says, that power support has come to households, but nothing has come to business. In response to written questions and in the media, the Minister has called for business to withstand fluctuations in the market. But what we're experiencing now is not fluctuations in the market. It is persistently high prices that are most likely to last for a long time. Power prices three to eight times higher than normal prices over half a year are not a short-lived fluctuation; it is a crisis for something that has been the carrier of Norwegian society for 100 years. In addition, we have fuel prices, which are increasing considerably. Does the Minister not see these challenges? And what business is the Minister visiting, if he doesn't get these signals from the players in the industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1990	We're evaluating this on an ongoing basis. I have said in the past that we do not in any way exclude the possibility that further measures may be relevant to business as well, but it is important that we are also aware that there is a distinction between the companies responsible for, among other things. to engage in business activities for its own account and risk and to the responsibility of the community and taxpayers. The companies are used to different prices going up and down. In the case of commodity prices, transport prices, interest rates moving up and down, in the case of electricity prices. Now we're facing a paycheck that we don't know the outcome. There is a constant question of the balance between the country for which compensation, if any, is to be granted and for which the country is not to compensate. That doesn't mean that we exclude doing further grips. As regards the reduction in the electricity charge, approx. 1 billion. kr of the reduction in business benefits. Further measures may also be needed. That's why we closely follow the situation with the business community and the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e1997	The Minister devalues the situation. What we're experiencing now is not a turn, it's an extraordinary crisis both within power, within fuel and within many other inputs. The government must take this seriously. It was unfortunate that the Minister of Industry had to step in for the Minister of Oil and Energy, because then I can take the opportunity here in the Chamber to invite the Minister to the Food Conference here at Stortinget next Wednesday. I also sent an e-mail about midnight – with some typos, so there were two pieces. At 14–16 Wednesday next week, we have invited business leaders, organizational leaders, other big business representatives and a big business. Then we're going to find out the situation and we're going to hear it directly from the business community. Can the Council confirm that he will participate in the next week and take the business seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2004	I thank you for both one and two invitations, and I would also like to say that it is commendable that the Progress Party and the representative here invite business to a seminar. It's good, it's fine. Business policy should be developed together with enterprises outside the country, where value creation actually takes place, not necessarily in an office in Oslo. Then I can reassure the representative that I also spend a lot of time in the country. I have visited more than 200 companies after joining. I met at least four yesterday. None of them took up the power. They were busy with many other things. But we're busy with power, because it's an extraordinary situation. There are dramatically much higher prices than it has been in the past. As I said, the companies are used to prices going up and down. Some have long-term power agreements; others have fixed-price agreements. We have to follow this very closely. Until now, we have not assessed the need for further exceptional measures, but we do not exclude it. This is also completely dependent on what happens in the next few weeks and in the next few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2016	This question, from the representative of Sofie Marhaug to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will also be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2021	I note that, like the former Minister of Oil and Energy, the new Minister of Oil and Energy is not so happy in the Question Time of the Storting, but I am not going to charge the Minister of Industry for that. The question is: ‘The Minister of State said to the NRK that the break in wind power generation on land is now over, despite the massive resistance of the population. When will the NVE initiate wind power concession treatment — already after the March investigation or only after the legal clarification of the integration of wind power into the Law on Planning and Building?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2030	Thank you for the question. The government of Solberg stopped all concession treatment of wind power as far back as 2019. There were good reasons for such a stoppage, but at the same time it has the effect of not developing new projects and new wind power generation. Now it's been a long time. The processing of wind power in the autumn of 2020 resulted in a number of changes in the treatment of wind power. Many of these can be implemented without changes in the law, and this is now NVE with it. The incorporation of wind power into the Law on Planning and Building requires, on its part, amendment of the Law, with the processes it involves. There is no direct link between the legal work and the suspension of concession proceedings. This government will work with the municipalities and not against the municipalities in the development of new wind power on land. Whether it is right to continue the suspension of the Solberg Government in the wind power concession treatment or whether to open up new wind power projects and, if so, on which premises, requires careful weighing. This is something the government will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2041	No parties opted for large-scale expansion of wind power on land. On the contrary, as the Council of State has explained, there had been a pause – one gave way to pressure from the people and introduced a timeout of wind power concessions. I think many feel cheated when the Workers' Party and the Right only six months after the election campaign are fighting to build up and build down as quickly as possible. Wind power on land has the same negative consequences as before: Nature is raging, scarce jobs are created, and the Tax Justice Network has documented how the profits of Norwegian wind power generation end up in tax havens such as Luxembourg and Switzerland. Even in places where municipalities themselves have wanted wind power development, there has been no conflict. The exercise, to which reference has been made by other politicians in this room, has been highlighted as a picture of glare, but it has been a disaster for reindeer workers. Does the Council of State think it is democratic and responsible to start building up now?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2048	There were many things I have not said and others have not said either. No one is fighting to build the most wind power possible on land now. Rather, there is a stop in the concession treatment of new projects. But we need more renewable energy, and I guess Red is just as busy as we are getting to the green shift. Then we have to have green electrons, and the government isn't basically against wind power on land all over the country if it's done in a proper and good way. As I said, we will work with the municipalities, not with the municipalities. What has happened in the past, under previous regimes, is being answered by others, but for this government it will be very important that such projects have local anchoring and digestion, if you want to move on with it. That is what we are now assessing, together with other energy sources and energy forms, how we can ensure that we have sufficient, clean and reasonably renewable energy to meet the climate targets, but also to build all the new green industry we are all so concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2053	It is quite right that some municipalities have wanted to expand wind power, but it has not been conflict free. It's not least the Fosen judgment is a very good example, that nature and indigenous rights have been violated and violated. So even if you can have excitement for something, it's not sure that's right to do it. But there is still great resistance in municipalities to the development of wind power, and when you say that you need to intensify the development of wind power on land, you will have to press those municipalities if you want to get a massive expansion. I agree with the Council of State that the climate crisis is important. The last interim report to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that natural degradation will reinforce the consequences of the climate crisis. We know that wind power on land captures large areas, including nature's own CO 2 stocks. How can the Minister, knowingly and willfully defend the degradation of nature and target it as a climate action when we know that land-based wind power also means that the consequences of the climate crisis can be reinforced?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2063	“Get to a massive expansion” – I don’t know where the representative got it from. I don't think she's heard it from the government parties anyway, no one's been talking about massive expansion. Rather, on the contrary, we have said that we need more renewable energy, and the energy being built must be sustainable. It must be an uproar, of course, within the framework of international law. We have a climate crisis, we also have a natural crisis, and we are busy stopping the degradation of nature. But on a principle basis to be opposed to one energy form, one type of way to produce it, instead of going into and evaluating each project and assessing whether it should be realised or not from an overall perspective where all these elements are involved, we do not believe that we are responsible energy policy, nor is it going to be the government's energy policy. But the representative can be absolutely sure that if and when the treatments start again, it's going to look different than what it's been like in the past, just because we want people with us, not courage.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2070	We're going back to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2078	This question, from Silje Hemdal to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education who is directing him. The question will be raised by the representative of Mr Framnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2085	«Health professionals have acquired good competence before their profession. They have worked closely against other disciplines in everyday life, including those against the nurses. There is today a great shortage of nurses around Norway. Therefore, it is paradoxical that health professionals do not get their skills points/supplements when applying for the training of a nurse. Will the government work to develop the competence of the health professional also be valued by applying for further training before nursing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2092	We need to ensure a good match between access to competences and the needs of society across the country, especially in the case of critical health professionals. We know that the demand for health and care services will increase in the future, and that we need both health professionals and nurses, both now and in the future. We need more nurses in parts of the country, especially in the municipalities. This government will build high-quality professional training throughout the country. Education and lifelong learning must be available where people live. If we strengthen the regional education offer, people can get easier qualifications and more education. The central statistical agency has estimated that by 2035 we may lack up to 18 000 health professionals and more than 20 000 nurses. It is therefore important that we look at how we can train, recruit and keep both health professionals and nurses throughout the country. This is why the government recently lowered the Health Personnel Commission, which is to look at this. The Commission shall submit a NOU by 1 February 2023. Applicants from vocational training programmes may qualify for admission to higher education by applying to general study competence. In addition to general study competence, there is a requirement for the minimum character 3 in Norwegian and 3 in mathematics for admission to nursing. It has not been relevant to introduce additional credits to give priority to applicants for vocational training in the ranking of applicants for higher education. There is a great deal of interest in nursing training. Over 13,000 applicants had a bachelor's in nursing as their first choice in 2021, and it was almost 9 pst. by all applicants through Coordinated Recording. It corresponded to 3.7 qualified applicants for each place of study. In the autumn of 2021, 5 136 students started a bachelor's degree in nursing. As of the autumn of 2022, even more applicants will be offered a study space as we have increased the admission capacity with a total of 500 new places of study in nursing and special care training at many of the country's universities and colleges. A public body has also been appointed to carry out an overall review and assessment of the legislation on admission to higher education. The Committee shall make its recommendations to the Ministry of Knowledge on how to create a more comprehensible and flexible admission legislation, which ensures the legal certainty of applicants and which may be adapted to future higher education and technological developments. The selection shall deliver a NOU by 1 December 2022. We have to wait for the results of these processes before we can make a more detailed assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2107	Thanks for a comprehensive answer with lots of details. I have been asked by Monica Fosse, the Chief Trust Authority of the Swedish Trade Union Confederation in Stord municipality, to ask the following questions: Will the Minister take the initiative in a conversation with the trustees to see how one can resolve this jointly as soon as possible? Health professionals also wonder why military personnel and those who go to public high school are getting extra points and not them. Can the Minister explain that logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2112	I can promise that at any time we have good dialogue with trade unions and other relevant parties in almost all of what is going on, and where relevant. The overall picture is two things. One is that we increase the number of nursing places quite significantly – 10 pst. increase from 2022 in relation to 2021. The second is that we have very good search in these places. Fortunately, recruiting nurse students in Norway is not a problem. And then we're going to need more. That means that we have to focus on the fact that more people are in the profession. This applies to both nurses and health professionals. We're going to go into the work on what I think is simplification related to the recording structure and what's going to be added points. That work is going to start after the NOU, which is announced on 1 December 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2119	Since my next follow-up question got a little black out before, what can the Minister and Government do to get ahead of those adjustments? Did I understand the Minister's right if one says that this with professional competence should actually count in case of further training? What can a person do to enforce this, because you're in a hurry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2124	What is urgent is to increase the total volume of both health education and training. In the case of nursing training specifically, we have a good search at the places of study. There are 3.7 applicants who are qualified for each available study place. We don't have any trouble recruiting people for nurse training. What is our challenge in some places is to give good and flexible runs so that you can take on- and on-the-job training. The singer requirement for admission to nurse training is that you have general study competence and grade 3 in Norwegian and mathematics. There are no plans to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2132	‘The government has decided to cancel the examination. Nevertheless, the positions shall be taken in May. Last year, the previous government postponed its position to June. What will the government do to motivate more students to come back to school and follow the teaching, and will the government move the setting of positions to June?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2139	In subjects with examination, there are normally specific time limits within which the position character must be established. When it doesn't become eleven months this spring, these deadlines fall away. The general rule that the position character shall be set at the end of the training shall continue to apply. The pandemic has led to differences in the school days of students at different places in the country. Some have experienced long periods of severe infection prevention, while others have had a more normal day of schooling for almost the entire period. It is the schools that know best what their assessment base is for the student group. For this reason, I believe it is important for schools to have the freedom to adapt training and the time when position characters should be set. We have chosen not to set a deadline for when to set a position this spring. But – and I would like to stress this: I have encouraged schools and school owners to facilitate this as late as practicable, so that teachers can have the best possible basis for determining their position. I have also been clear that I expect that the time that would otherwise have been used for the exam will be used to provide students with good training and more opportunities to demonstrate their competence. I would also like to draw the Stortinget's attention to the fact that last year no time was set for setting a stand-still mark when all the eleven-week exams were cancelled. The schools were encouraged to put them as late as possible. I think it was a wise solution then, and I think it is a wise solution now. In order to support schools in setting positions, the Education Directorate has published a number of resources. A webinar was also held on 22 March on point of view. Webinaret targets school leaders, school owners and state administrators in particular. The representative, Melby, points to something important in his question: motivation among the students and that the pandemic has affected it negatively for many. I have regular dialogue with school owners, teacher organisations and the Student Organisation. Many point out the same thing, namely that students experience a lack of social community membership. Our students have missed being together at school in the time we're behind. I believe it has been important to come back to a normal day of school, where calmness to both education and social life is very central. I have wanted to give schools room to work professionally and socially to stabilise school life for Norwegian children after the infection prevention measures, and have therefore also given money to municipalities and county councils, so that there is room for action to meet local needs. We just distributed 216 million. kr to municipalities, county councils and health schools, where areas with particularly high infection pressures have been prioritised. This is in addition to the fact that the government prioritises a strong local economy. By the additional number of the State budget for 2022, we increased the free income of the local government sector by 2.5 billion. kr in addition to the proposal of the Government of Solberg. I have great confidence that good work is being done in this area in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2158	I am very happy to hear that the Minister of Knowledge shares my view that it would be an advantage if many people took care to use the entire school year, thus setting the stand as late as possible. I am happy to hear that the signal has been sent, and I hope the Minister of Knowledge is clear to the whole sector that it is desirable, so that as much as possible actually follows it. Then the Minister of Knowledge shows that a lot of money has now been allocated to the municipalities that have had the highest infection pressure, and where we can assume that most students have lost valuable learning. That pot was a pot from our government in which the new government chose to cut, and after the government cut it, the red level of education was carried out in many places, i.e. that students received less education throughout the country. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: Has the Minister of Knowledge considered expanding the pot, and has she received some feedback from the sector that it is believed that 216 million. kr is enough to do the job they are now assigned to?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2167	The sector is very clear to the undersigned that they want peace, trust and time to work with the students, so that they can learn as much as possible and make the best possible use of the time up to summer. It's the same thing that the government and I, as the Minister of Knowledge, have been concerned about, that is, giving it peace and confidence in the good and important work. So I think it's a little paradoxical that after two years of pandemic, how many have boasted very much of the wonderful effort that teachers have made for all the country's students, in the wake of it as a kind of premium for the important and good job, has a discussion about how much we should control the detail of the work to be done in the future. I'm absolutely sure there's a lot of commitment among Norwegian teachers to get the students up in the morning and into school, and that we're going to do what we can to get the most out of it. And I'm busy giving time, calm and trust to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2176	I'm a little uncertain about who the minister of knowledge refers to when she says that you should run the school in detail. At least it has not been suggested either by me or by my party. What we've been busy about is strengthening access to resources to the school, so that they can do the job they're assigned to. What has been important about the money, which has also been allocated throughout the pandemic to lost progress, is that they have not been earmarked for any particular purpose; the school has been allowed to use it for what they even thought was reasonable. It also appears that they have used them for very good measures: increasing teacher density, intensive training and a wide range of such things. But when I was a minister of knowledge, the feedback was very clear that strengthening the municipal framework generally did not mean that the students were getting closer follow-up at school. That money didn't make it. Is it such that today's Minister of Knowledge has received other signals, and that the schools now actually receive increased resources, or is there a need to earmark money, as the feedback I received when I was Minister of Knowledge was?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2185	The most important feedback I get is the desire for calmness, time and trust in working together, working well with the subject and giving students as normal a daily life as possible. Then there will always be a desire for more resources in school. There, I think, the need and the wish are exhaustive. Of course, there's also a discussion and assessments we do in this government. But the very clear signal now is that there is no desire for explicit measures, proposals or plans to do this in a different way from the work already done at school. There is a desire for calmness, time and trust to work well with the subjects and to get the students back to a normal day of school. I feel that the sector is very happy that I have been concerned about expressing that trust to me. That's why we said, when canceling the exam, use the time well. However, schools themselves need to assess what time to spend on, both for students and for each individual’s ability to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2195	‘The government will ‘phase out the competitive promotion’ which ensures the competitiveness of smaller dairies. Subsidies to smaller operators are, as is known, an instrument for ensuring competition and a certain selection in Norwegian shops all the time the market is dominated by one major player. The Government has decided, inter alia, to exempt the Q dairies from the distribution grant. What does the Council of State think will be the consequences for smaller operators in the dairy sector by eliminating anti-competitive measures, and what will be the next steps to be taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2202	Let me first say that competition is also important in the milk sector. I would like to remind you that it was the previous red-green government that introduced competition promotion measures for the dairy sector in 2007 under the price equalisation scheme. Since then, the independent actors have been added closer to 2 billion. financed by the price equalisation scheme. There is now considerable competition in dairy shelves, both nationally and in international actors and brands. The Hurdal Platform notes that the government will maintain the milk price balancing mechanism but gradually phase out the competitive instruments from the scheme. A central part of the milk agreement was that the promotion of competition should be evaluated every five years. The scheme was evaluated in 2012 and 2017. It is therefore natural that a new evaluation is now being carried out in 2022. At the same time, such an evaluation will provide a very good basis for deciding how to follow-up on the Hurdal platform. this area. This has been announced in the past, and the mandate for the investigation is now just around the corner. For me, it has been important to have a good factual basis and to have good dialogue with the actors about these arrangements. I have therefore met with the operators in the dairy sector, the trade unions in agriculture, the NHO Mat and Drink and the NNN on the mandate for the investigation. Trade has also been invited to make a contribution to this work. The government determines that the price balancing system is a central part of agricultural policy, and we will maintain this system. It is important that the price equalisation mechanism does not incur excessive costs that weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian milk and reduce the possibility of target price withdrawals. The issue of distribution grants is the management of existing legislation. The administrative decision, which was also taken before this government joined, i.e. when the Right is in government, has been charged and is still being treated in the Directorate of Agriculture. Therefore, it is not correct that the government has decided to deduct the Q-meierien distribution grants, as the representative Molberg claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2215	Thank you very much for your answer. The government's desire to phase out grants to smaller actors has created quite a lot of anxiety and confusion. It has, among other things, contributed to the complete cessation of investments by independent actors, and this has a great deal to say for local jobs in several places in the country. In my home country is Synnøve Finden in Alvdal. It is a corner stone enterprise that is now facing an uncertain future, due to the political signals confirmed by the Hurdal platform. I note that the Council of State says that the government is to evaluate these promotions of competition and that the mandate is soon clear. Then I wonder if the Council of State can say something about what this in practice means. How will smaller actors in Namsos, at Røros, in Alvdal, in Gausdal and on Jären deal with this in the future when this evaluation is ongoing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2220	This is a lot of what the evaluation should respond to, and where I should not pre-conclusion. I want to remind Right again that the distribution grant was actually the Right who made a decision on his watch. Now there is a complaint in the directorate, which can also come to my table, and I am asking for understanding that I cannot comment on an administrative matter that is currently being dealt with. Then I just want to say that I look forward to this evaluation and to making that mandate – I think it is important for the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2227	It was the Agriculture Directorate that decided to remove the distribution grant to the Q dairies in the transition between two governments. Now it's like the Hurdal platform is not to be misunderstood in this area. It is only right that the promotion of competition should be phased out without any further explanation. Finally, this will also weaken the Norwegian farmer. Without competition, the processing stage will be more inefficient, the innovation rate will decline, and the Norwegian dairy market will be weakened for consumers. I note that the Council of State says that she is too competitive in the dairy sector, and that competition is good, but on this basis and if we look at the Hurdal platform, it is a little difficult to understand how the government can be too competitive. So the question is, is the Council of State really in favour of competition in the dairy sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2234	Governments are very much in favour of competition in the dairy sector. The Council of State is also very much to follow up what the government has adopted in the Hurdal platform. That's the job we started with. Then it is important for me to point out that it is important to include all input into the mandate in the further job we are going to do, not least in the investigation work to be done. Then it is important that the investigation is now conducted by environments that know the market and know the scheme well. At the same time, I emphasise that the evaluation is competitive – it is important to point out. And then I would say that both the investigation and any changes in the use of the instrument will be consulted. I focus on an open process and a good professional basis for the assessments and decisions we're going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2244	‘The PST and the E service promote the influence activities of foreign countries as a serious threat to national interests and point out that the threat has increased in recent years. It is essential that the PST is provided with sufficient instruments to address the threat posed by such activity. In May 2021, the Solberg Government sent proposals to criminalise influence activities at the hearing. The proposal involves attempts to influence decisions or the general formation of opinions in Norway. How will the government follow up on the bill?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2251	Initially, I would like to stress that illegitimate influence operations pose an increasing challenge and also pose a threat to open and free democracies. Both the PST and the E service have for a number of years promoted the influence of foreign countries as a serious threat to fundamental national interests in Norway. In the February annual threat assessment this year, PST demonstrated that foreign intelligence influence operations can undermine the confidence of the population in the Norwegian authorities. If other countries' services succeed in influencing or changing a political decision in Norway, it weakens democracy. Last Friday at the latest, the PST reported an increased intelligence threat from Russia in the light of the invasion of Ukraine and the reactions of the West. The security policy situation suggests that these types of instruments can be a more topical threat now than they have been in the past, although the threat has been persistently high. Influence operations are not explicitly regulated in the current penal code. The former penal code prohibited certain forms of influence, but it was repealed upon the entry into force of new criminal law. The lack of criminal regulation means that the PST can to a very limited extent detect, prevent, investigate and organise the influence of foreign countries in Norway, and this is a problem that I appreciate that the representative addresses. During the hearing, the Solberg government’s legislative proposals were criticised for containing vague and unclear conditions that pose a risk of a cooling-down effect on freedom of expression. There were heavy hearing bodies, such as the Association of Advocates and the Norwegian Human Rights Institute, which therefore considered that the proposal should not be adopted in its present form. Basically, I think there are good reasons for imposing a criminal order that criminalises this type of activity. However, it is a demanding task to design a criminal order involving illegal acts of influence while at the same time taking account of other considerations. I agree with the hearing bodies that it is very important to ensure that human rights requirements are met in a safe way, and in addition, the penalty order needs to be formulated sufficiently clearly so that citizens are able to predict which opinions and actions are punishable. I aim to get to Stortinget as soon as possible with a concrete bill that affects illegitimate influence operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2268	I thank you for the answer, and I can promise the Council of States that the Right will be flexible in getting such a bill through quickly. But I ask a little more specific when we can expect it, all the time when the government of Solberg sent this bill to the hearing soon a year ago, and the consultation deadline expired three months ago. Is it possible to sketch something about progress as soon as possible, because as soon as possible can you mean so much in ministerial languages?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2273	I can unfortunately not be more concrete than that at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2278	Another law the Council of State knows well, and that we worked a lot with when the Council of State was in opposition, is the Security Act. It was sent to the hearing last autumn. It was a law of the Senterpartiet was very clear that something should be done, and also in the Hurdals platform it says about the Security Act. I do not see that the same power of action is present now that one might have been involved in opposition, but how far has the Ministry come to work on revising and tightening up the Security Act, something that is expected to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2285	The government is very concerned about taking care of Norwegian interests, and national security is a very important part of it, especially when we look at how the threat picture has looked like in recent years, and how it has evolved in view of the possibility that foreign countries can run intelligence in Norway and want to influence Norway with both traditional instruments and new instruments, such as economics, among other things. had a case of last year related to the Bergen Engines case. The government began to work to strengthen national security as soon as we got in. Among other things, we have put in place a mechanism for screening investments, which allows us to have better control over it than we had before. We are also working on following the Safety Act, and we will get to Stortinget when it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2292	Thus, all questions in the ordinary Question Time have been answered, and Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-03-23.ana.ud175e2306	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
