ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e28	As the representatives can see, part of the staging room is blocked. There's nothing to do with the good-looking staging representatives who usually sit there, but it's for safety's sake for them. The President will therefore ask that those who cannot sit in their fixed place find a free seat. Those who are not sitting on their own seat can draw themselves by raising their hands or taking a walk up here and talking to the secretary.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e46	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt and the Councils of State Bjørn Schüran and Ingvild Kjerkol will meet at the oral questioning session. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e55	The coronary apnea caused a great deal of pressure on our health services, and more patients are now waiting for treatment. Waiting for treatment is demanding, and many patients feel that life is being put on hold. Regional health enterprises have been given financial support every year. Both the previous government and the current government have compensated the hospitals for corona-related costs. Nevertheless, we see that patients are in a hospital queue for too long, while there is free capacity among private actors who want to contribute to the public health service. In some areas, waiting time may range from one to two years for completely necessary treatment, such as hip and back surgery. For patients, it may rarely matter if they undergo hip surgery in a public owned hospital or a private hospital. What's important is that the quality is good, that the state pays the bill, and that you get back to everyday life quickly. This week I visited Aleris’ hospital here in Oslo. Today, Aleris has a maximum capacity of about 750,000 patients a year on a national basis. Today, the State uses less than 10 pst. of this capacity. At the same time, the number of people waiting for treatment is higher in 2021 than in both 2019 and 2020. Waiting time is lost opportunities, uncertainty and insecurity, and for many, there will be long periods of waiting, sick from work or unable to follow their studies. We have to admit that we have a aftermath, but there are also many who are waiting for completely necessary treatment in the Norwegian healthcare service. My question to the Minister of Health is: Why will the government keep patients waiting for months and, for some, for over a year rather than using the available capacity that is in the private sector of healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e68	The coronary apathy has led hospitals to a continuous transition for two years. It has gone beyond the planned treatment, and there has been a situation both during the previous government, on their last watch, and it is also a responsibility we have now. We are very closely following the development of waiting time. Health regions do a great job of resuming vulnerable treatment. It is that health regions make use of the available capacity through agreements with private individuals. Now the representative mentioned Treen one actor who has agreements with most of our health regions. It is part of the effort that is now given priority. What we have done by the government is to strengthen basic funding. By exposing so much of the planned treatment, health regions are also losing to the activity-based part of their funding system. Our profile in this budget, as well as in the additional proposal we made in January, is to strengthen basic funding so that health regions are best placed to recover vulnerable treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e77	Yeah, it's good with a good and strong hospital economy. But it is also sad that the government does not use the private capacity that lies in the possibility of having good public–private cooperation. Perhaps this has never been as politicized and ideological as it is now, and that is because we have a health minister who, through his statements in the media and here in the main hall, shows a hostile attitude to the private sector's desire to contribute to public health. She also operates on a platform that will terminate all commercial operations of welfare services. This is contrary to what ordinary people want. In Kantar’s health barometer, almost seven out of ten respond that it does not matter which health care provider provides services, if the services are good. How long must the waiting time become too common people before the government will use the capacity of our entire healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e84	Here I think the representative Troeen has filled with very much juicy rhetoric, but very little content. I'm not hostile to anyone. The patient in Norway does so for the purpose of helping patients. If we look back a little bit in time, how the representative Troeen's own party has handled this, for example. Last year, when a settlement was made with the Progress Party in the revised national budget, pointing to the need to prioritize private capacity, the Minister of Health at the time also replied that it was not appropriate or feasible – of course to criticism from the Conciliation Party. So we haven't done this in any other way than the right did. Treatment was also at risk in both 2020 and 2021. And now health regions are working to get back to those problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e89	There will be follow-up questions – first Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e94	I think it's clear to everyone who listens to the questionnaire and who has listened to the signals we've received from this government, who wants and has been very clear that private people who want to provide healthcare will not get the best framework conditions under this government. State Secretary Karl Kristian Bekeng, the Minister of Health's own State Secretary, has said that if you look at health as any commodity, like selling coffee or shoes, you could say it's completely irrelevant who's doing this. It's just about getting it done in the most effective way possible. It is a statement that came when we discussed Kantar’s health policy barometer, where the population answers that they believe that the solution is a good public–private cooperation in the future. Does the Minister of Health support the opinion of his own State Secretary, and does she believe that it is a correct definition, that the treatment of patients in the private health sector can be equated with selling shoes and coffee?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e101	I believe there is a difference between health care and selling shoes and coffee. My State Secretary believes that too, and that is why he also got a job with me – we agree on that. But I totally disagree with the reasoning of the representative Troeen. Ever since we received a publicly funded healthcare service, it has been a collaboration with private and non-profit actors. I believe that the best conditions for them – and this is based on direct dialogue with these actors – are achieved through agreements, long-termity and predictability. And that's where I think the Right Solutions are failing. They've also been evaluated. The privatisation reform of free treatment options has not provided shorter waiting time or better predictability for the private and non-profit sector. We have another way, where the private and ideals who treat Norwegian patients get agreements and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e106	Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e111	The Health Minister and I have discussed free treatment choices frequently, and we probably interpret the evaluation of that report differently and disagree on it. In fact, it has shown that patients who choose free treatment receive shorter waiting time. But in the debate on free treatment choices, to which the Council of State refers, the Council of State has in the past been very concerned that the price is very much focused. But what we're now looking at, after Health South-East recently released their tenders, is that they only put one thing into the tenders for the private they want to buy services from, and that's the price. Often in these debates, the Council of State shows that the solution is to be found, but in the requirements now set from Health South-East to Private, there is no equivalent requirement for documentation to be provided by private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e117	I did not understand any question, so I cannot see that I have anything to answer. What has been the Workers' Party and the Central Party's main objection to the privatisation reform's free choice of treatment is that it is a central authorisation to provide specialist health services that are unconnected from the health regions, which are responsible for care. We think that's the wrong way to control the resources. We want agreements with the health regions for the private and ideals who treat Norwegian patients. We believe that it provides long-termity and predictability and also gives the community the opportunity to prioritize resources as needed, rather than an offer-based service, as we see in other countries, which is not as successful as we are in providing good health care across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e122	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e127	Last August, the then Prime Minister, Ingvild Kjerkol, told Nea Radio that: If we are given confidence in ruling the country, we should give priority to saving the system of the first state budget. Well, now Kjerkol has been serving as Minister of Health for over six months, but we still see that the queue has now increased to 150 000 people who are undetermined. The number of people without permanent staff has increased only after Kjerkol took up the Ministry of Health. The number of Nordics without permanents has never been higher, and there are no signs that the trend is going to turn. Now we are accepting many thousands of refugees from the war in Ukraine who will also have demands and needs for a permanent resident, without having a single crown to strengthen the coverage of permanent residents. I am sincerely afraid that at the end of this year we will look up to 200,000 people who are standing without a firm, i.e. a new Kjerkol queue. This is very serious — especially since you have a legal right to be on a regular list that is based in Norway. The Minister of Health may say that she is following the situation closely — which has become the prime trademark of this government. Nevertheless, it is a fact that she stands and looks at while the fixed medical system falls apart. After Kjerkol has now been in the Council of State for more than six months, the number of non-constants has never been higher. It might be tempting to ask if the Council doesn't think it's flat. When she was in opposition, Kjerkol traveled around and promised that she and the Workers' Party would come close to the Medical Association's claim for 4 billion. kr to strengthen the fixed medical device. She said $1.7 a.m. kr was not enough. But when Kjerkol got power, it was all of a sudden in a small amount of 100 million. kr – very far from the workers' party's beautiful promises in the election campaign. What does the Council of State say that she promised a strong strengthening of the fixed medical system all the time she has provided only under 5 pst. of his own election vow?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e136	I can assure you that we are taking seriously the crisis in the fixed medical system. We consider it one of the most important tasks of this government. It is a service that gives access to a general medical specialist to all residents of Norway. It gives us a strong primary health service that other countries envy us. Our goal is to strengthen the general medical service so that we both recruit and have stable medical coverage across the country. This is a crisis that has evolved over ten years. What was a good arrangement when it was established in 2001 is not a good arrangement in 2022. The action plan presented by the previous government has not had the desired effect. It has supported the representative of Hoksrud – it is the priorities of the Hoksrud Party. It is a crisis that has evolved year after year until the worse. We are now looking at structural changes in order to ensure a sustainable general medical service for the future. In the next few years, a number of decision-makers are going to get rid of the pension. It's not going to be recruited new if we don't make an arrangement where young doctors see it's possible to run their profession. So we're working on that. We added, and in this year's budget, we spend half a billion more on the fixed medical system, but it is therefore an action plan that has not produced the desired effect – rather on the contrary. Development has gone in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e145	Then it is that the Council of State is now following the situation closely, but what she says is that this is something that has evolved year after year. So I record that the state council said just before the elections, that this was to be taken into account in the first state budget. One hundred million. kr is not to take hold of this in the first year. It is also the case that the proportion of those missing is increasing and increasing, but at the same time Norway is sending out of the country. We've done it in Egersund, we've done it in the West, we've done it in Kragerø. So we're going to do it around. People who have taken Danish education are therefore sent out of Norway because you are not allowed to work here. Then it might be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about that investment in this area, and does the Council of State know how much relief an average doctor gets for the hundred million dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e152	One hundred million. kr – that’s what we got in three weeks when we wrote an additional letter, and it’s hard to take the representative Hoksrud seriously when he expects a three-week permanent reform. Then I think at least he used his eight years quite poorly, as he had the opportunity to influence this issue. What we're currently working on is changes that will provide us with a sustainable general care service for the future, which ensures the primary health service that is the core wall of our healthcare and that is important for patients to be able to receive specialised treatment near where they live. Then I want to say that this action plan, which has now worked for a few years, has not had the desired effect. It does not meet the medical challenge, which is a major challenge. There did the government Hoksrud has supported for eight years, very, very little – about something.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e161	The council says you can't do this in three weeks. It is therefore possible to find billions for other good purposes that the government would give priority to – and obviously more priority than ensuring a good set-up. Cancer sickness Hans Christian Solbakken from Gjøvik has not been fixed, and he has cancer. It doesn't feel safe, as he says to Uppland Arbeiderblad, and that should be a major challenge to the Council of State. In that case, at least you should stop sending out experts from the country who can – and will – work here, but who do not get that opportunity. So the answer to the hundreds of millions of Kjerkol is a strengthening. This means that an average doctor can reduce his weekly working time by ten minutes. And the Council of State promised, as I said, before the elections to save the staging order. Why did she do that, when there's never been any more undetermined than what it actually is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e170	The challenge of securing adequate doctors in Norway was addressed on the first occasion. We strengthened medical training by 15 new places in the three weeks we had available when we wrote an additional letter to the Solberg government's budget proposal. So over the years, we've been based on the fact that the rest of the world is training doctors for us. It's a challenge this government is addressing. We're going to increase the number of medical places. We're going to increase the recruitment positions of general medicine. We announced a little over a month ago a quarter of a billion ALIS positions, which are recruitment positions for general practitioners. What we're doing on recruitment is the most important measure we have now, until we have more structural measures to maintain and stabilise the permanent body that works too much, and that needs relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e177	Erlend Svardal Bøe – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e182	I have listened to the debate so far. In an interview with Dagens Medisin last year, the Council of State said that what was urgent was to save the fixed medical system, and that the government would provide additional appropriations to stabilise the fixed medical system. The Council of State has also stated that the basic grant should be tripled. When I hear the Council of State talking about structural changes, I wonder what it is. It sounds like a postponement tactic to make the least possible possible. The KS, the Medical Association and the previous government agreed on the 17 measures contained in the action plan for general medical services, including: increased basic grants to reduce the list length of the fixed doctors. So my question is, what will we see of entirely concrete measures by this government to stabilise the fixed medical system? And when does the Council of State plan to follow up and deliver on its own promises to stabilise the fixed medical system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e189	The previous government did not deliver on this. The action plan presented by the previous government has failed. In Svardal Bøe's own municipality of residence, Tromsø, you use your own funds. An action plan of 100 million has been presented there. kr over four years, and even there, you can't solve the challenges. We need to look at the relationship between basic funding and activity-based financing. The Medical Association is also very concerned about that. Then there are several of the measures in the action plan that are about recruitment, and of which we see good effect, and of course we should continue to strengthen them. Pursuing money on a solution that does not lead us to the goal is something I do not think Right seems to be a good idea either. We have to solve this fixed crisis. The young doctors today don't want to work 55 hours on average. Then we have to do something about the structural conditions of the system, and we're going to present that to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e199	Marian Hussein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e204	As the previous speakers have pointed out, we're all concerned with the tenure and making sure that the Nordics have most of the regulars. They form the core wall of our primary health service. We are in the midst of a fixed crisis, a crisis that can lead to increased social differences and affect vulnerable patients. These strong words are drawn from the Health Directorate's own report, where they concluded that it must be acted on quickly. If not, the consequences will be very serious. We are also in the midst of a health workforce crisis. The Health Directorate concluded in its report that the current action plan’s actions, frameworks and tools are not sufficient to meet the challenges. So my question is, what immediate measures will the Council of State provide to resolve these crises?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e213	We have strengthened the educational capacity in the healthcare sector and in the education sector in order to get more health professionals in several professions, for which I feel that the representative Hussein is involved. The representative Hussein then refers to the Health Directorate’s assessment of the impact of the action plan on the fixed medical scheme and that it is not active. That means we have to think about something new. We're going to negotiate a budget with SV in the coming years as well, and I hope we can find together and prioritize this important primary health service and what is the core wall of our service structure, namely that everyone has access to a general medical specialist. It is a citizen of good cooperation in the future. In the short term, we have different discussions about other types of measures here in Stortinget, which SV negotiates with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e222	Marian Hussein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e227	I note that the Council of State is looking forward to working with SV on the budget, but at the same time it is quite demanding, when the decision-makers are in difficult days, and they are also at risk of getting fines at the top of an already stressed working day. We had a debate on this last week, where the Council of State did not fully agree with the SV. There is a need for immediate action, says the Health Directorate, but at the same time the Hurdal platform – and I also heard the Council of State say it earlier – says that structural changes are needed. But strengthening the fixed medical system is more than just education. It's about ensuring trust in the decision maker, but also looking at the solution. Will these measures be part of the revised national budget of the State Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e234	The revised national budget will be presented next week, so I have no leaks. It would have been exciting if I had. But I strongly urge SV to make good proposals to give priority to the fixed medical scheme above what we have done in the budgets we have agreed so far. Nothing would please my heart more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e239	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e244	The war in Ukraine has updated the question of the use of nuclear weapons. Following the invasion of Russia on 24 February, Putin announced that he had ordered that the country’s nuclear forces be put on hold. The nuclear weapons use threshold has fallen. The new security policy situation gives reason to look at new uses and threatens the use of nuclear weapons. The question of what can be done to avoid a nuclear war was probably not theory before, and at least it is not now. The Hurdal Platform suggests that Norway should increase its nuclear disarmament effort. The Foreign Minister also stated in November that ‘Norway will support measures to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons in defence doctrines and measures to reduce the risk of nuclear use. [[...]] At the Madrid Summit in June, NATO shall adopt a new strategic concept for the Alliance. If the principle of non-use of nuclear weapons first becomes part of the new strategic concept, it will be a valuable contribution to increasing safety and reducing tension in today’s unincorporated situation. It will give Russia a boost to use nuclear weapons first and raise the threshold of all atomic powers. This will be an important step in reducing the role of nuclear weapons in security policy, as the government and the Foreign Minister have said they will do. My question is, will the government go in so that non-primitive use of nuclear weapons becomes part of NATO's strategic concept?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e255	As the representative said, it is the NATO Summit this summer. There, we're going to review what's the strategic concept, which is kind of the basis of NATO's values. In advance of that meeting, we have signaled that both I and the Prime Minister will come to Stortinget to consult on what will be Norwegian positions. What was adopted at the 2010 summit was that the goal was to be a world free of nuclear weapons. It was a big step, and we got the other NATO countries on it. I think it's important in the situation that is now, that we agree on what are the common principles in NATO. In this context, Norway is a clear driver of disarmament, but I very much disagree with one of the premises that the representative here draws up. I believe we should adopt a policy that is in line with Norwegian security policy interests, but if it is that if NATO makes decisions, Russia will make a pass, then I must say that I fundamentally disagree with the approach adopted by the representative. We have also seen that Russia has deployed medium-range missiles in Kaliningrad, in violation of the INF agreement, so we have to deal with the reality that is where Russia is threatening nuclear weapons. Then I think it's important that we assume that we should contribute to a mutual disarmament, which is going to happen on both sides at once, that it is verifiable, and that it is irreversible. That is the basis for government policy in this area, and then we will consult with the Storting on what positions are now taking place in the NATO alliance towards the summit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e264	I thank you for your answer so much. I agree with most of what the Foreign Minister says, and it is clear that in today's situation Russia is threatening to use nuclear weapons. The question then is how we deal with such a situation – how can Norway and NATO help raise the threshold rather than lower the threshold for actually using nuclear weapons. Introducing a non-priority use principle will not mean deterrence of the threat of using nuclear weapons, but only that NATO itself is telling off the possibility of threatening to use nuclear weapons first. Would the Foreign Minister agree that it would be both immoral and unwise for NATO to launch a nuclear conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e273	There has been a difficult situation between the United States and Russia in this area for a long time. But at least one principle has been established recently, and it was the doctrine that no party can win a nuclear war. It was pronounced both from Russia and the United States. With regard to the discussion on first-time use, which has also gone on in the United States, we will consult the Storting about it. But I think the main problem now is the way Russia threatens with nuclear weapons. I also think it is important that we assume that it is those who have broken the INF agreement. When Ukraine as an independent state signed the Budapest MOU in 1994, they denied the right to use nuclear weapons. So I think we should find good wording at this NATO meeting to contribute to real disarmament, and then at least we should not sign the prohibition agreement, because it would be a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e283	Ingrid Fiskaa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e288	The question of the UN's nuclear ban is another matter that we can discuss at a later stage. According to SV, Norway will join that agreement, being a step in the right direction to achieve mutual nuclear disarmament. But today's question is about first-time use. I understand that the Foreign Minister is very much in agreement that a principle of the first-time use of nuclear weapons will be both immoral and unwise to have, and I therefore ask again: is there a principle that the Norwegian Government will follow, including in NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e293	I think it is a little special that the representative is standing on the floor of Stortingen and says that she sees it as I have said that this is immoral. After all, I have said that NATO's current doctrine is immoral, and I do not think so. So I reserve the right to use the words I myself use. Then we will consult with the Storting on how best to contribute to nuclear disarmament, but I believe that NATO has been very responsible in this situation. We will drive disarmament, but we will also contribute to consensus in NATO in these areas, just as we contributed to it in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e300	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e305	In the newspaper this week we could read that Kjerkol believed that the closure of Ullevål hospital and an investment of 50 billion. SEK to a new hospital in Oslo is a good thing to mobilise for the red-green ones in next year's municipal elections. ‘This is a train that has left the station for the longest,’ said Kjerkol. But in the 1st May train in Oslo it was the parole for the preservation of Ullevål that gathered the vast majority of people behind it. In the city, the majority of the population are opposed to the closure, as is the case in Oslo City Council, and all the trade unions of the employees of Oslo Hospital are opposed. An overall psychiatry community believes that Aker is unsuitable for mental health treatment, located in the middle of the Sinsen Cross, and the country’s leading emergency environment states that disaster preparedness is being weakened for half of Norway’s population. The crown argument for closure is that Ullevål has old barley, and that's true. New hospital buildings are needed. But what Kjerkol never says is that there are also 110,000 square meters of good hospital buildings on Ullevål. It's a solid waste to dispose of all of this. There is also a good place for new buildings on the Ullevål property, which is not on the narrow plot at the Rikshospital, where one must build a hospital in a high block. But the most serious thing is: on Ullevål they have a complete emergency medical environment today under one roof. If disaster occurs, specialists from all disciplines must be available in the same place, at the same time, to save life and health. So it's this emergency hospital that Kjerkol wants to split up. What does Kjerkol have to say to all the professionals who warn that this means a ‘life-threatening division’ of the emergency medical environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e314	The representative shall be the State Council of Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e319	The decision to build a new hospital in Oslo is the end of a long, long process. The size has taken a decision on these plans in so many rounds that I wonder if my fingers are going to – I can use them several times, of course. This is a project that has a broad democratic anchoring in this room, and then the task of a minority government is to implement it. Whether the democratic mindset of the representative of Moxnes and me is quite similar, you might wonder, but these are plans where the Municipality of Oslo has been heard in many rounds, and where the Municipality of Oslo has also joined the target image of services. In the case of these trauma functions to which the representative Moxnes refers, there shall be national trauma centre in Gaustad, and it is these competent, excellent professionals who also sit in the driver’s seat to plan it in detail, so that it will be good and safe. I believe that the professionals in Oslo University Hospital deserve modern work facilities. I believe that the patients and the citizens of Oslo deserve patient care in modern buildings that are adapted to the future and not to the past, and that is what we are going to do on our guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e328	There is no real majority in the Storting for the closure. The majority is for Ullevål Hospital The majority in Oslo City Council is to maintain the hospital. In the letter that went from the trade unions at both the Rikshospitalet, Ullevål and Aker, they rectify the claims made by the Council of State Kjerkol. They deny that Aker will be a major emergency hospital. You share the emergency response. Trauma and acute surgery are located in the Rikshospitale, while emergency medical activities are located in Aker. This divides emergency medical treatment and preparedness and divides the professional environments. This is what the good professionals warn against in letters to the State Council Kjerkol. So again – and then I want an answer: What is the Council of State Kjerkol has known about emergency medicine, which those who work in emergency medicine have failed to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e335	This case has been dealt with in Stortinget for many rounds, and what the professionally responsible for national trauma centres have said very clearly is that you need a recording area of approx. 200000 in order to operate a sound national trauma function through what was then the national trauma centre. It is in these plans that this is justified. Then I know that the representative Moxnes and the party Red is against the size of the Aker hospital. You disagree with my local party in Oslo, and that's a fair thing. I think it's important that we gather mental health protection in new fields. Today, the clinics are spread at 40 different addresses. It is no advantage for patients to receive treatment with such poor physical facilities, and it is also true that Oslo University Hospital today spends hundreds of millions of years on maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e342	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e347	I record that there is no particularly impressive response to the fragmentation and fragmentation of the emergency medical environment in two, against which the trade unions and all trade unions strongly warn. So the state council is pulling the psychiatry out of the hat as an argument to lay down Ullevål hospitals. Gaustad shall be wound up and patients shall be moved to a building with a built-in airspace close to the Sinsen Cross. An overall professional management of psychiatry and drug treatment says no to these plans. Patients need good surroundings, the opportunity to walk, be able to engage in other physical and recreational activities in the green environment, just as it is in Gaustad. What is the Council of State Kjerkol knows about psychiatry, which professional management of psychiatry at Gaustad has not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e355	I've heard the voices of professionals at Gaustad. I visited Gaustad yesterday. It's a fantastic facility, a peaceful building, that doesn't give associations to hospitals, but it also has challenges to be able to address future needs for mental health protection in a city as big as Oslo. The fact that there may be a need to have a green suit and the kind of facilities associated with patient treatment in the future, I believe that the processes that are currently underway are catching up. It's peaceful buildings we're talking about. So having ambitions to expand the capacity of those buildings is in itself a demanding matter. Building new ones now will lead to better patient treatment. It will lead to better working conditions for our professionals, and it needs Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e360	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e365	Once again, Kjerkol did not come up with very convincing arguments against the overall leadership of psychiatry. What we want is to set up new buildings on what is the largest hospital in Northern Europe, with a good place for expansion, where you can also maintain 110 000 m2 of well-functioning modern hospital buildings, which are at Ullevål per day. So it's like the Groruddalen, with Kjerkol's plan, won't come back to Aker, because you put Ullevål down. Then the districts of Grorud and Stovner will still have to be referred to an overburdened Aarhus on Lørenskog. The alternative is to preserve Ullevål and rebuild Ullevål, and then ensure that Aker becomes a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen. What is the Council of State's response to Groruddalen's election that they will not get back to Aker because of the hospital plan of the same Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e372	The Hurdal platform is very clear on the ambitions of Aker Hospital. So we're going to follow up the plans that have been adopted, and also the formulations that are in the Hurdal platform. With respect for this pulpit: I am not getting up in the morning to impress the representative of Moxnes. I am very pleased that we have a large majority of people in this room who think about the patients and the inhabitants of Oslo, and who are adopting plans for new hospital buildings that are up-to-date for modern patient treatment, which gives professionals better working conditions, and which also increases capacity, because this is a city where the population is growing. The Stortinget has made up its mind for many laps. The representative of Moxnes is not part of that majority, but he must also respect that there are actually decisions that I have to follow up as the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e379	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e384	It seems that the government councils and several trade unions disagree, because it's clear there's a lot of criticism from different trade unions about a collection at Gaustad, and the division between Gaustad and Aker, but I don't intend to ask about it. The Council of State emphasises that new and improved areas are now to be earned. And then my question is: with the huge building mass that you are now going to put on Gaustad, on what is a small plot – in my opinion too small a plot – with too large areas and during a long period of construction where the hospital will also work during the construction period, is not the Council concerned that the areas are too small in relation to the number of square metres to enter, and is not the Council of State concerned about how the activity in the Rikshospital should work during such a long period of construction, as is evident here?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e391	Building new hospital buildings in Oslo is a large, comprehensive and complex project. There are many construction projects to be carried out — some of them at the same time. The Radium Hospital shall be rebuilt. New acres are to rise. The municipality is already in the process of building a new city hospital guard. Gaustad Hospital is to be travelled to the Rikshospitalet, and we also have the Life Sciences Building, which is to link the hospital's activities with research, education and other types of development initiatives. So it's clear that these are demanding processes, but it would be even more demanding if we had started a big, new fight. Who, then, would have suffered? Yes, it's the patients in Oslo, and it's the professionals in Oslo. So I feel that the critics here are starting to run out of alternatives. These are plans that have been adopted and will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e396	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e401	Several countries' intelligence services believe there is a significant risk that Putin will escalate the war against Ukraine on the day of release on 9 May by formally declaring war on Ukraine. The Russian forces suffer from a lack of motivated soldiers and need reinforcements after considerable losses and very many wounded in this brutal and international war. A formal declaration of war will include, inter alia: enable Putin to fill the forces with new reserves. What preparations do Norway make for a possible further Russian escalation of the war, and what will Norway's response be if Russia formally declares war on Ukraine, if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e408	The situation in Ukraine is now very serious. We've seen how Russian forces are moving forward, but it's also obvious that Putin hasn't achieved the goals he's set. I think it's fundamental throughout this war that we have consulted with allies when we have designed reactions, both verbally and in the form of connection to sanctions, or when we have decided to send weapons. That's why I think it's a little demanding to stand here and say what to do concretely if a special situation occurs. We've taken every day at a time. We've said it will have great consequences if it gets escalated, and we've also done it in different ways. I think the most important thing in this war is that we are with our allies, that we are dealing with them. Now we have been informed, as the representative is about, whether it can be escalating on 9 May, but then we will come up with any reactions in this regard. So I just want to take the opportunity to say that I said wrong to the representative Fiskaa when I said medium-range rockets. So what's true is short-range rockets, so I answered a little bit unexplained in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e417	After all, it is beyond doubt that if Russia now declares full war on Ukraine, it will mean a considerable increase in the threat to the West and to Norway. I do not expect the Foreign Minister to be detailed on any operational measures, but it is important for the Stortinget to have a assurance that one is leading where and can consider alternative scenarios and dimension our possible reactions after that. Then my follow-up question will be as follows: What preparations is Norway making for a possible further Russian escalation of the war, and what will Norway's response be if Russia formally declares war on Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e425	I have well explained in detail what preparations we are making at the different stages when we have consulted the enlarged Foreign Committee during this war. What has been important is that we are now preparing for new sanctions. New sanctions packages come from the EU. We are constantly assessing how we can help Ukraine most with budget support and other matters. We consider which weapons supplies will be appropriate. But the basic thing for us has always been to act with our allies, and we will continue to do so too.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e432	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e437	I will follow up on 9 May. Should Russia formally declare war on Ukraine on 9 May, it will not only constitute another meaningless escalation of what is already a brutal war, but it will also probably result in more suffering and a worsening of the humanitarian situation for the Ukrainian people, but also for countries in the neighbourhoods. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say something about how Norway and the government are preparing for this, and what measures are being taken to remedy what is a humanitarian situation that might be even worse than it already is?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e444	I'm a little uncertain about whether the issue is dealing with the humanitarian situation or other issues associated with an escalation in this war. But I want to answer what goes on humanitarian first. It has been important for Norway to contribute through the EU, because they are good at coordinating efforts, both for those countries receiving refugees and also in Ukraine. There is also a fund that enables us to contribute direct budget support through the UN and the World Bank, in this case, to the Ukrainian people. They have to pay wages, for example. to teachers, and they have to pay for hospitals. We also contribute through some voluntary and humanitarian organisations, for example. Red Cross, which has people on the ground in Ukraine. I think the needs of Ukraine will be enormous in time when this country will be built up. This is a war that Putin can't win, and then we're going to contribute even more to the construction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e451	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e456	I am going to pursue the path that is at EU level and our coordination with the European Union. There are many ‘ifs’ linked to it on 9 May will change the message from Putin and Russia. Can the Council of States say anything about what external sanctions are now being discussed in the EU in connection with a possible Russian declaration of war on 9 May? She would also like to clarify whether there have been discussions about further penalties, in which case in what form, and when preparing for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e461	There is contact with the EU regarding the different sanctions. Firstly, when sanctions are imposed in one area, there are also other ways to find those who are subject to sanctions. Then we have to introduce new sanctions to close the gaps that arise in the legislation. What kind of sanctions the EU imposes is primarily the EU that has to go out with. There was something in the papers about this related to oil. But as for the conversations I have, I can't say from the Stockholm pulpit that I've heard that and that and that from the European Union. It must be confidential conversations. But there are very strong reactions and powerful sanctions that clearly aim to hit Putin's financial ability to wage this war and punish the individuals involved by listing those responsible for this war. There will be new penalties on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e466	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e471	I want to look a little bit ahead. After all, all the warriors have an end, and that is after all all in the future we all have to live. Seeing that Ukraine is winning the war – there is a lot that eventually points to it – and that Russia is being pushed out of Ukrainian territory: Ukraine has had a desire to become a member of NATO, although Zelenskyj has been a little more cautiously attached to it, but I will assume that is because of the invasion of Ukraine. But it has also been a mantra for the country to decide its own foreign policy. So the day Russia may have been pushed out of Ukraine, does the Foreign Minister then believe that it is natural for Ukraine to apply for membership in NATO, and that it is granted?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e476	What has been fundamental since Russia came up with its threats before this war is that I, the government and the other NATO countries have stood firm on what is the solid foundation, that it is something that each country must decide for itself. That's why Sweden and Finland reacted so early – even before the war – to what was Putin's threat, because it's something they have to decide on their own. That is why I have been somewhat reluctant to comment on the debates in Sweden and Finland – they need to find out on their own. This also applies to the question of Ukraine: there is something they need to define on their own, and NATO may decide on an application at a later stage. This also applies to the representative’s questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e481	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e487	I could pursue this more, but I want to ask another question. The head of intelligence in Ukraine – that’s a rather demanding name, but his name is Kyrylo Budanov – predicted early in the war that Ukraine would win against Russia. So he said yesterday that it means, for his part, that Putin has to leave – he won't surrender, but he has to leave. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that if Russia is pushed out of Ukraine, there is a natural outcome of the war?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e494	I'm a foreign minister, I'm not an analyst -- about what I think will happen. It concerns some of the questions I get in the Questionnaire today, there are open questions where I ask to make different assessments. It's quite demanding in the current situation. Firstly, we are discussing with other allies, and secondly, we are preparing for different scenarios. It is not appropriate to go out with speculation about it now. What we see is quite clear about Putin is that he is talking about Ukraine as a threat to Russia. It's not Ukraine. But what is a threat to his power is democracy, because it causes his power base to be weakened. It is also clear that there are voices in Russia today, but many of them have fled, many are refugees to neighbouring countries. For me to wonder what will be the outcome in Russia, I think is very demanding right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e501	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e506	The Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that we must be together with Europe and our allies in our reactions to Russia. The most important thing we do is to support Ukraine with weapons, with other support, but also with effective sanctions. Last week, new sanctions were also introduced by the government. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government has spent a lot of energy stressing that Norway only deviates from the EU port ban at one point, namely the exceptions for Svalbard. At the same time, there appears to be something strange about a general exception that we now have for all Russian fishing vessels. Two thirds of the calls in Norway can thus continue for Russian fishing vessels. What the EU has done is to allow Member States to introduce exemptions for vital products such as agricultural products, food, humanitarian aid and energy. It's a statement from the President of the European Commission. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Where does it say that the EU grants all Russian fishing vessels exemptions from the port ban, and which EU countries have introduced a similar derogation as Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e515	What Norway has done is to establish specific legislation based on the sanctions imposed by the EU, so that it is easy for Norwegian fishing vessels to interpret the sanctions. Because there's a completely different situation with us than in very, very many other countries. That is why we have clearly indicated the size of the vessels, etc. So it's an interpretation of the law we've done, which means that we're not asking for a general exemption from EU sanctions in this area. That was part of what we discussed in advance, but we did not see that it was appropriate to ask for a general exception for calls in mainland Norway, but a general exception for Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e520	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e525	My question goes to the Minister of Health. The jubilee was on the roof when the medicine Kaphtrio was finally approved for the treatment of the atrocious pulmonary disease cystic fibrosis a short time ago. Finally, CF patients can receive the treatment they need and deserve, which gives life expectancy and a better everyday life. Nevertheless, we should not allow the approval of Kaphtrio to overshadow all those with other diseases that today do not get the drugs they need, medicines that are available in our neighbouring countries. An example is cancer medicine, and I think everyone in this room knows or has known someone who has or has had cancer. Cancer affects many, and the consequences of cancer are great. Nevertheless, we see that our neighbouring countries offer cancer drugs that provide better predictions for survival or survival – drugs that are not offered to cancer patients in Norway. In Rogaland’s newspaper, we could read about Marit and Eliza. Both have severe breast cancer. Unfortunately, the prognosis is bad, but they get different medications. While Eliza gets Enhertu, which is a new medicine that provides longer life span and fewer side effects, Marit Kadcyla gets. Kadcyla provides shorter life-time and major side effects, such as constant fatigue, flu symptoms, tongue breathing, nausea, headache, skin pain, neuropathy and difficulty sleeping. Marit and Eliza have the same disease, but are treated differently and have a very different quality of life and prediction. The only reason is that Eliza lives in Sweden and gets the new medicine, while Marit lives in Norway and gets the out-of-date medicine. This means that the months or years that Marit gets with her children will be less and will be marked by severe side effects that destroy the quality of life. The reason for the decision-making forum not to approve the medicine is as always: the price is too high. Does the Council of State think it is fair that Eliza and Marit should live their lives with such a difference in quality of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e538	It is important that we reduce the time from new medicines being marketed in Europe until we are able to use them in the Norwegian healthcare system. In the Hurdal platform, we have committed ourselves to a reduction in the processing time. It's very important. Then Stortinget has adopted criteria for how we should prioritise. This is the way – also for the Advance Party, as for all other parties in this Chamber – that we can use a crown once. Here, the Storting has decided on the priority criteria for utility-resource-seriousness, and so they function in such a way that the more serious the condition or diagnosis is, the greater the benefit of the drug, the greater the willingness of the community to use resources. That is why we are taking expensive medicines into Norway. The easiest thing would have been if the drugs were cheaper. There we have a major global pharmaceutical industry that we must have in place to achieve it. They want to get paid for their innovations, which are patent-protected in the early years. It is also important that Norway seek cooperation with other countries, so that we can negotiate best prices and help as many patients as possible in Norway. The pharmaceutical industry recently came up with its WAIT index, i.e. how long it takes, and Norway is in a sixth place among 39 countries for medicinal products that are being used by the public and become available to all. And for example, from Sweden that the representative went up: it's not like everyone gets access at the same time. There are the regions that decide, and it is an important principle in Norway that everyone has access at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e549	That's right, as the Council of State says, you can only use a penny once. But this also applies in other countries, not only in Norway. And that Norway is in the sixth place of 39 on such an overview is not reassuring. We are, after all, the richest country in the world and should be able to achieve this in a better way. Is the Council, then, in agreement with the decision-making forum's assessments, which almost value what the life of mothers and daughters with breast cancer is worth, cf. my first question?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e556	We need a system to prioritise, and it would be a fundamentally unfair system, I think, whether the Storting should take that decision. Then it would be those who have the most resources and the most access to the representatives of the Storting, who would reach out. I think we have good priority criteria: use, resources and seriousness. We also had a good debate when we had the previous priority message, where the Storting was particularly engaged in the rare field, and thus wanted a separate investigation of the criterion severity. This is a system that was legalized when the Progress Party was set up in the department that I am now running. So I think it's a little short-term memory from the representative Morten Wold to now throw wrecks at a system that, first of all, ensures all patients equal access when new drugs are taken up, but that also takes priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e565	There will be follow-up questions – Morten Wold.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e571	Short-term memory is probably something that affects politicians on both sides of the political divide quite often, is my impression. This applies to both the right-hand and the left-hand sides. The Progress Party wishes to replace the Decision Forum. We believe it is wrong that it is the four top directors of our regional health companies, who have direct self-interest in how the bottom line of the accounts of each regional health company will eventually be, who will decide which medicines are to be offered to Norwegian patients. I would like to remind the Council of State that she and her party have fought the election with the slogan 'Now is the turn of ordinary people'. Why does the Council of State not want to do anything about the decision-making forum for new methods, so that just more common people can get treatment they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e580	New methods have just been evaluated, and we will follow that evaluation. We also want to present a new priority message to Stortinget. There are a number of things we want to develop and improve. The Progress Party has also submitted a proposal to introduce a Danish model. We will respond to that proposal, and it will be dealt with in Stortinget. I think it's interesting to see the so-called WAIT index. In fact, in Norway we have more medicines available than 33 other countries in Europe, and both Denmark, Sweden, Finland and England are on that list. So we're not doing it that bad compared to other countries. However, this government's aim is to cut down the processing time and introduce new active therapies more quickly – to the satisfaction of our patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e589	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e594	Monday this week Ecocrim came with the threat assessment si for 2022. Here they are written, among other things. this on fishing rigs: «It is very likely that some fishermen and undertakings involved in the reception of fish are involved in systematic under- and under-reporting of fish and shellfish.» And on the other hand, ‘Norwegian fishing resources and their economic value attract actors who benefit from systematic under- and mis-reporting of catches at fishing receptions. This is carried out either in cooperation with the fishermen or by substantiating the catch or catch value of the fish.» Earlier in the week, the Minister for Fisheries was in the VG and commented on the matter. He then said that he should carry out a comprehensive reform of resource control. But such a reform is already under way and started up by the Solberg government. And in September of 2021, the current Minister of Fisheries Odd Emil Gebrügsen announced that in addition, a separate section of the Ministry of Food and Fisheries would be set up to deal with the prevention of fishing crime and that an important task for the new section would be to implement the national reform of fisheries control. So our question to the Minister for Fisheries is: is the reform of the Council of State talking about earlier in the week of VG the same as the previous government said, or is he planning a new or additional reform? In which case, what should this reform contain, and what is new?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e611	What before the election from the previous government was talking is now being turned into action. That means that a new section, which is going to work on fishing crime, is in place in the department The new section is now, as some of the first one it does, going to work out this reform. Then it is that we must cope with what we have to do, namely to expose those who take care of the community's resources and, in the worst case, to damage the clean-up of a whole industry with great workers who work hard, honest work every single day, we must have a systematic job. We need to cooperate closely with the industry, with those in charge of fisheries control and with the police. I am pleased that Ecokrim puts this high on its agenda. That means we also have that resource dedicated in addition to this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e620	I thank you for your answer and note that this is about implementing the previous government's national fisheries control reform. That's good. That's good policy. However, the Council of State says more to the VG, that it considers several measures ‘to protect the important marine resources and all legal actors’. The question then arises: can the Council state what this is, whether these were also measures initiated and implemented by the previous government, and/or proposals from the Fisheries Control Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e627	The Government’s objective is to strengthen efforts to prevent fishing crime. I have said it this way that it is important to me that we make it easy to do the right thing. We're working on a lot of measures. We use the input from the Resource Control Committee, and we are now implementing a series of measures to ensure a sustainable industry that meets the requirements that we know will be important in the future markets. We're working on digitization. We are working on a more efficient organisation of the Fisheries Directorate. We're working on strengthening the interdisciplinary work, and then we also have an international work, among other things. through the Blue Justice initiative, which is about tackling cross-border fishing crime. I will probably be able to get back to the job that is done in an appropriate way. So the important thing is what we actually get to do now, and not what we've been talking about in previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e632	Olve Grotle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e637	I note that the Council of State actually refers only to the measures and plans that the former government has taken, but looks forward to a new one within a certain period of time. So to a follow-up question a little in the same street: in the media, it became clear that the Norwegian Fisheries Team is not in agreement with the idea of an outstretched juxtaposition in the fishing industry. The leader of the Nordland County Fishing Team says to the NRK that it is hair-crowding and sad, and that a whole industry is being criminalised by Ekokrim. ‘I would say that 99 per cent of all fishermen are law-abiding’, says the leader of the Northland County Fishing Team. The question to the Minister for Fisheries is: Is he in agreement with the criticism that the Fiskarlag is now travelling against Ecocrime, that they are criminalizing a whole industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e644	I assume that the representative Grotle also heard my comment in the same news case. I chose to say it in such a way that I am sure that all, most people who work in the Norwegian fishing industry, not only work hard, but also operate honestly. I am concerned, as I started with today, that those who commit crime, those who act as bandits simply, should not continue to take care of the community's resources and, in the worst case, destroy the reputation, put into play the reputation of an entire industry. So I think the other actors who have the word in this context are going to have to explain their views. I believe I have been clear on what my view of this is. The most important thing is that we can get hold of this, so that we have good resource control, that we don't get any distortion of competition by allowing those who are involved in crime to compete out of the real ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e651	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e665	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and the President will show in that context the electronic question list. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Fredrik Holm to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question will be raised by the representative of Ingerd Schou. Question 9, from the representative Emma Georgina Lind to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik. Question 13, from the representative Hege Bae Nyholt to the Minister of Knowledge, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative of Mr Arion Nilsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e683	This question, from the representative Fredrik Holm to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question will be raised by the representative of Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e688	‘When will the Government initiate the EEA cooperation investigation in the last 10 years and the investigation on the experience of related countries in having agreements with the EU other than the EEA Agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e693	Friday, May 6th.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e698	Thanks for the answer. Then we look forward to May 6th! I am following up on this: the Hurdal platform's attitude towards Norwegian European policy is unclear. On the one hand, it states that ‘the EEA Agreement shall form the basis of Norway’s relationship with Europe’. On the other hand, alternatives to the EEA Agreement have to be explored and the impact of EEA funds also needs to be reviewed. It seems to be a kind of unsolved compromise between the Workers' Party and the Center Party of the Government Platform. Will the Workers' Party strengthen its efforts to promote active European policies within the government in the light of recent developments in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e707	I believe that the entire government is pursuing an active European policy, but the entire government also wants more knowledge of the EEA Agreement. There have been several examples where there has been a great need, including in the Storting. We have had the NAV scandal, which questioned what the space for action is. We have had a number of questions related to pay and working conditions that ask questions about what kind of room of action we actually have. We have also had questions about, among other things. ostetoll – and other questions. I believe that as an annex to the EEA Agreement, we should seek as much knowledge as possible about how it has worked. Now it's been ten years since the last investigation, and then it's natural that we update that knowledge base – even now, ten years later.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e714	It would also be interesting to measure today’s situation against what EU membership would involve, to show what the difference is. But I'm going to continue with Sweden and Finland, which is now talking openly about NATO membership, for a quick process. Denmark will shortly hold a referendum on whether to close its security reservation in the EU. This will place Norway as a foreign country in the Nordic region, where our main neighbours are both NATO and EU members. We had a special position, now we can get into a special position. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see any concern about such a position?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e721	I believe that within the terms of the agreement we have, we take care of Norwegian interests in a very good way. I explained it yesterday in the Storting, and I will also come back to it in a long debate on Europe tomorrow. I think it is a bit funny that the Right believes that we should consider EU membership as an alternative. So now the Right has been in government for eight years. If there was a desperate need to figure this out, the Right would already have done it. But they didn't choose to answer this question. What is the theme of this investigation is the knowledge of how the EEA Agreement works in practice, and what kind of space of action we have, and I think we all have an interest in that. Then, of course, there will be discussions for and against the EU, but there are slightly different discussions than what is the subject of this investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e733	"To Dagbladet on 26 March, the Minister of Finance said about the high prices of petrol: "We look at instruments all the time, and we follow the situation closely." How high must the price of petrol and diesel be before the Minister of Finance starts to follow closely and look at the means to actually implement measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e740	Throughout 2021 and into 2022, fuel prices have gradually increased, but after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, price increases have been strong. In March, the average pump price for petrol and diesel was slightly above 22 kroner per litre. There are considerable variations in fuel prices both over time and between stations, multi-kronor price differences are not uncommon. In March, fuel prices could be well above and well below 22 kroner per litre. In April, fuel prices ranged from 19 to 22 to 23 DKK per litre. This suggests that average fuel prices are now slightly lower than in March. When we took over the budget from the previous government last autumn, we chose to lower fuel prices – at an extra lower rate when it came to biofuels. This is because, as a government, we have a great deal of understanding of the sum of costs for people, and we also prioritised – especially for those who had a particularly high cost of transport – improving the travel allowance considerably. We also chose to prioritise costs when it was a ferry, so that the ferry prices were reduced from 1 January, which the Solberg government had not included in its budget. The holiday price is 30 pst. lower than the reference point when discussing lower ferry fare. We have also announced in the budget that we will bring free ferries on some sections of the year. So there's a lot of action we take to keep the costs down for people. The situation in Ukraine is extraordinary, we're only getting everyone hoping for the person to settle, not least for the Ukrainian population and the huge suffering that's there, but also for stability in the international commodity markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e747	Now the finance minister has had almost a week, and he has had three minutes to answer, but has chosen not to answer the question itself, which is how high the petrol price must be. Instead, we get stories about commuter deductions, about ferry prices – and not least about a factual error, because it was said that the government put down petrol prices before Christmas. What they actually did was set up the petrol tax in relation to 2021. Yesterday, the petrol price at Shell Sola was NOK 23.68 for both unleaded petrol and diesel. I wonder if there is a price so high that the Minister of Finance assesses measures, or does the price have to be even higher?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e754	I think it's a high price. I also filled the fuel this week for 19,60 kroner – if I do not remember completely wrong – at Best in Romedal. So there are pretty big price variations. It is also important that we are clear about the chain, that they do not increase prices more than necessary. For example, when you take the diesel blend between biofuels and ordinary diesel is just above NOK 5,20 – which is the level of the levy. It shows how much of the enormous cost fluctuation that has now occurred, which does not depend on a charge but depends on fluctuations in the commodity market. So what I said instead, quite rightly, was that the government inherited a budget proposal from the Solberg government where we chose to set charges at a lower level than the preferred government partner of the Progress Party and Roy Steffensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e759	I am recording that the Minister of Finance says he thinks 23.68 kroner for petrol and diesel are high, but he still has not responded if it is high enough to put action in place. I've seen that there are three question hours left, that means I can repeat the question nine times the next three weeks. I hope I don't do that, I'm willing to do that, but we can end it right now and now, so I'll ask you one last time: how high does the gas price have to be for the finance minister to start and put in action?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e764	I think the exchange of words here illustrates some of the challenge, when I at my local Best station filled for around 19,60 kroner – the pump price there was at least less than 20 kroner, which I also think is a high price compared to what we tend to have – and then the representative Steffensen shows a situation where a much higher price takes in an area where the market should actually be larger. Only the difference between the two constitutes a large part of the level of the fee, because the level of the levy on diesel – which I expect may be what Steffensen has filled, as many people do – is a mixture of 5.20 kroner, which is in a way the excise duty on diesel. So just here the price difference between the two 4 dollars, that's almost the entire fee level. There are quite other external factors that are now drivers: extreme unrest in the international commodity markets, especially in diesel. That's why the last thing you've seen is that the diesel price can sometimes be higher than the petrol price.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e772	‘Member States shall include in their taxes on diesel and petrol and VAT the amount of the amount of the amounts that are staggered. with background to the sky-high fuel prices. Fuel has a basic price before charges and VAT. Which is probably relatively low. The Council of State can present what the state has collected and filled in the cash flow in the treasury per year. date in 2022 in fees/VAT. in the case of fuels?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e779	The excise duty on fuel is fixed in centimetres per litre and is independent of the price of fuel. Of course, when the fuel price is high, the charging part is also lower. If you use less fuel, your tax revenue will also go down. So it varies. The concrete figures I have obtained from the Directorate of Finance, the figures published in the national accounts at dfo.no, show that the country's revenue from the fuel user fee was 3,351 million. NOK in the first quarter of 2022 against SEK 3,369 million. kr in the same period in 2021 – a little less this year than last year – and 3511 million. kr in the same period in 2020. So we see that there are slightly lower revenues in years of those fees. It was in 2020 and 2021 lower revenues than it is this year. The national accounts show, therefore, that the country’s income from the user charge is falling. These are the specific figures the representative has asked for, and they show that the tax revenue is decreasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e786	Then it might be even more strange that one is so much afraid of inflation if the same fee is cut. It is that when you cut the fees, it is not the same as when you use the money. One way to use the money is to get inflation. What, then, is the basis for one to make it like cutting taxes is the same as spending money? It is produced as a use of money. One takes in more than 1,000 billion. kr extra in oil and gas revenues and other revenues, so one does not need to use these charges. And if you don't use the money, it's not money use, nor does it create inflation. So what's the basis for cutting taxes being produced as money use?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e793	We need to get closer to the very concrete figures in the revised national budget. It's going to be perfectly precise to the Storting, so things are going to be completely correct. But as it seems this year, the fund values of the oil fund have lost more than other increased revenues, because the world is so unstable. One of the results is that Norway, as a large owner of companies around the world, can say ‘has lost’ – but it is always scary to put things directly up against each other. My main concern as Minister of Finance is that Norwegian families are the families with the second most debt in the entire OECD region. The entire OECD will say everything from New Zealand, Australia, Canada and the United States to all European countries participating in the OECD. We are then the country that is really most vulnerable to higher interest rate increases than announced. That's why, when we look at the total use of money, we also have to make sure that we don't take action that makes the interest costs for families go up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e800	It's actually tempting to say that the expression fill anxiety has got a new meaning, because most people now have anxiety when they're standing with the fuel pumps in Norway, with the sky-high prices that are actually. In 2019, the central party leader Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum was outside and believed that the centre party had to become the bilistane of its party. Vedum expressed: «Taxes cancel unsocially and hit most of those with the lowest income. When you say you're going to twist the consumption, it's they with the best advice that gets the quickest chance to do that," says the head of the Center Party, Trygve Battle Violence Vedum. The co-leader announces that the party will work to ‘remove the whip for those who cannot afford to buy an electric car’. It is they with the worst advice that will naturally be the last person out," says Vedum." My question is simply: why is the Minister of Finance inconsistent with the central party leader in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e814	I think it is incredibly wise the centre party leader has said in 2019. I guess I'm not very objective to assess it, as far as I'm concerned. That's absolutely right, and if you look at the government platform, we say that the tax and tax level for people who earn less than NOK 750,000 is going down. That is why, when we took over the government budget proposal from Erna Solberg, who is Frank Edvard Sves' preferred prime minister, we chose to reduce fuel charges, and we reduced taxes on electricity. When the Progress Party had the finance minister, they chose to increase the fees, not least on electricity, very much. The highest electricity charges we've had was when Siv Jensen was Minister of Finance. We put the charges on the power down by 2.9 billion. NOK 2022 compared to 2021 – if I do not remember faults. We got a lot of criticism, especially from the Right, that we put the charges down on both fuel and electricity. They thought it was was wasting money, but I totally disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e822	‘The Solberg Administration provided for construction start-ups in 2023 for a test and drill centre for oil protection in the northern regions. The centre was to be established at Fiskebøl in Vesterålen. In a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries dated 7 April, the Swedish Coastal Agency carried out a downscaling of the project and the development of test facilities in Horten instead. Can the Council of State confirm that the Centre will be realised on Fiskebøl with the same content, scope and timetable as the Solberg Government has agreed and to which the Stortinget has joined?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e829	The government is committed to developing preparedness in the north. There is a need to strengthen oil protection and to develop emergency equipment adapted to Arctic areas, but it needs to be done in an economically sound manner. In the coming years, it becomes very important to pursue a responsible economic policy. The Norwegian economy is experiencing strong growth and low unemployment, wages and prices are rising. The war in Ukraine leads to an uncertainty that results in high energy and commodity prices. At the same time, we use great resources to strengthen our defence and to receive people as refugees from the war in Ukraine, and we have extended the power support to 2023. This may lead to overheating of the economy, so that, in the worst case, interest rates need to be increased faster than those already announced. We must take the consequences of this and be more financially responsible than before, so that the cost of people and business does not increase more than necessary. Now we have to turn all the stones to see how we keep the costs low and control the costs. That's why we've asked all the underlying agencies to go through cost-intensive projects. Not doing this would be irresponsible. It is on this basis that we have asked the Swedish Coastal Agency to look at opportunities to keep costs down in this project as well. The coastal works shall include, inter alia: assess scaled-down solutions at Fiskebøl and update cost estimates for the development of test facilities in Horten. This will give us important and necessary knowledge, which is the main basis for safe decisions. When we get the Coastal Agency input, the government will deal with the matter before we present the further process of setting up test facilities for combating acute pollution in cold climates and icy waters. The previous government did an important job on this project, but there is still a lot to be done before it is ready for realization. It is therefore not realistic with construction start in 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e844	That was discouraging news. I believe that this project has been very well established. I myself was part of the government apparatus when we investigated it, and it was possible to build it in 2023, with political decisions and decisions. I think this is basically important. For all expenditure items, we have to look at the national economy, but this is just about the basic question: should knowledge of the northern regions, of preparedness in the north, actually develop in the north, and should we have faith that we have that knowledge in the north? Or we're going to say that this can be done cheaper e.g. in Horten and Oslofjorden? I strongly disagree with that, and I strongly disagree with the fact that the entire Northern Region policy is being put up against the national economy. Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e851	It is nothing new that the representative Thorheim is satisfied with his own efforts – we have been following him for a while, having experienced him repeatedly. The job that the previous government did was, as I said, an important work, but there is still a lot to be done before the project is ready for realization. On 1 June 2021, the previous government informed that the plan was to kick the earth in 2023. It was through a press release. In November 2021, the Swedish Coastal Administration presented its report on the concreteisation and optimisation of the project. Here the cost was already 30 pst. higher than the previous government had assumed, and several changes to the project were recommended. Therefore, there has been a need to go some extra rounds, and I will appropriately return to Stortinget with more detailed information on how the government will follow up the plans for the establishment of test facilities for combating acute pollution in cold climates and icy waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e858	Can I ask the Council of State to respond to the following: We have the Wisting field, where there is a great deal of questioning about oil protection during the expansion of the field – some analyses of it have now been submitted. Will the Council of State think it is right politically, if it should prove that it is more reasonable to have a test and practice centre in Horten, actually to run testing and practice in Horten instead of in Hadsel in the West Sea in terms of oil protection for Arctic and ice-filled waters?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e863	I have no plans to establish a center inside the Oslofjorden to provide oil protection in arctic struts. And then I would like to say in conclusion: if this had been so important to the Right and to the representative of Bård Ludvig Thorheim, who was probably aware that there was oil activity also in northern waters when they ruled, for eight years, it's a little strange that you couldn't get anything done with this center – which has been planned for many, many years – into the summer, when you saw which way the polls pointed out. I take note of that. But we're still working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e871	First, I would like to welcome the Minister of Defence to the Question Time. We're looking forward to that. ‘On 20 March, the Defence Preparedness Agreement with WilNor expired. The Head of Defence Communications then said to the VG, "When the agreement fails, it may have a short-term effect that the ability to receive allied will be lower." [[2021-2022]] Article 10 that it will ‘see how both national and allied logistical needs can be addressed through the further development of strategic agreements and the optimisation of the existing logistical apparatus’. Why has the government allowed the WilNor agreement to expire without adequate compensation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e880	First of all, thank you to the representative for the welcome. I look forward to cooperation and good debates. The management of the WilNor agreement was, as many procurement agreements in the sector, delegated to the Defence. Based on an examination of the agreement, the Defence in 2021 concluded that the agreement could not be extended beyond the original contractual period. Contractual weaknesses and critiques related to the conclusion and management of the WilNor agreement by the Defence Agency were identified. Some of the findings of the study were related to the process and financial assessments at the time of conclusion of the agreement, the framework of the agreement, internal control and quality assurance. The defence shall respect basic governance principles in the country at all times. Effective operation in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, ethical behaviour, good and transparent management practices is a prerequisite for optimising the operational capability of the defence. Lack of compliance with legislation and procedures leads to uncertainty as to whether the best agreement for defence has been reached. The circumstances raised doubts as to whether the agreement was structured and managed in such a way that the overall objectives of making the most of the overall resources of the defence were met. The ability to complete alliert reception is not bound up in a single agreement with a single supplier, but through several agreements with different response actors. This continues to provide defence and allies with access to a significant scalable capacity. The agreement with WilNor meant inter alia: that the company had a coordinating role against other providers for services related to allied reception. One consequence of the absence of an option to extend the contract is that the defence is addressed to several suppliers. According to the Defence Manager, this may present some capacity challenges related to acquisitions and logistical customer support. The challenges are assessed by the Defence to be manageable.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e891	When I listened to the Council of State, I got a feeling that this rests very much on the government's procurement regulations, that the law on public acquisitions should be followed. Of course it is, but we know that this agreement has been a good deal for the Defence. It was an agreement that was important, among other things. in the implementation of Trident Juncture and our ability to receive alliert. The question is: what damages have now been made instead of this agreement, which many see as a good result of military and civil cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e896	It may – and is also certain – that the agreement had a functionality that gave many good results for the defence, but we must agree at the same time that agreements must be in line with law and regulation. With my knowledge of the agreement that had been concluded, it would have been a breach of the procurement rules to go further on the option part of the contract. So I don't think that was relevant, and the defense itself drew that conclusion last year. Then you have worked in parallel both to enter into that agreement in a way that means that you have direct contact with the subcontractors who were to serve the needs you had, while at the same time having a job to conclude new agreements as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e903	My simple question will then – after listening to the Minister – be: Does the Minister take responsibility for the fact that today we have a state of emergency which is as good as we had with the WilNor agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e908	I cannot say that there are no challenges to the fact that that agreement could not be extended. As I pointed out in my answer, it has brought some challenges, but as the Defense itself says is manageable. It is also the defence itself that drew the conclusion that the option could not be triggered and that has put in place compensatory measures to ensure the needs of the defence in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e916	‘In the light of the lapse of corona compensation and fewer persons travelling after the pandemic, more collective societies are now required to cut off the route offer. Fewer passengers have provided lower ticket revenue. What action will the Council of State take to ensure that we maintain a good collective offer across the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e923	Collective transport is important for people's everyday lives, and therefore the government proposed in January to continue support for municipal public transport, express buses and train companies. Since 2020, the capital has granted a total of 14 billion. to compensate public transport for reduced revenues and increased costs arising from the pandemic. The size decided in January that municipal public transport should be compensated for reduced revenue by July. The train companies have received support out of March, but I have previously announced that the government will propose to extend the current compensation scheme by June. Furthermore, the Railway Directorate, which purchases passenger services by train, has been mandated by the Government to negotiate with the train companies changes to existing agreements to ensure that the agreements are sustainable over time. In January, the Grand Duchy adopted two decision-making decisions, involving, inter alia, the following: the government shall set itself the objective of increasing the proportion of travellers by collective and rail to the same level as before the pandemic and thereafter to continue to grow. Of course, I'll follow up on that. Earlier this year, I set up a working group, led by the State Road Administration and with the participation of key actors in public transport. The working group has put forward some recommendations and measures in line with the new standard, both directed directly at the collective service and at improving the competitiveness of public transport compared to the private car. I received the working group's report in April and now assess the recommendations made in the report. As a first paragraph of the follow-up to the recommendations of the working group, the Ministry of Transport has recently entrusted the State Road Administration with a task of concreteising recommendations relating to the utility benefits of electric cars in urban areas. This is the way public transport needs to adapt to a new standard. At the same time, I agree with the representative that we need to avoid a negative spiral where the route route provides a less attractive offer, which in turn provides fewer travellers, reduced revenues and new route.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e936	I am pleased that the Minister of Transport and his government have followed up on providing compensation to the public companies, as our government did. It has been essential to maintain the supply through the pandemic. The challenge we are seeing now is that that compensation is not there since July, as the Minister for Transport also explained. There is very little to suggest that the collective societies will be able to maintain the income they had before the pandemic, among other things. because ticket sales are much lower now. There are many that have found other ways to travel. Among other things, Router has announced that they will cut all 38 lines in the Week from July 4. This is going hard on ordinary people. This makes the collective offer even worse, which may mean that even fewer people choose it, and that ticket revenue continues to go down. Will the Minister for Transport come up with some concrete measures from July onwards to compensate for this loss of revenue to the collective societies?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e945	No matter how you look at the role of the state, it is a municipal responsibility to finance and operate public transport. It is also that there are constant changes and movements in demand. It looks like it's slowly crawling up, and that's good news. Then I think that together with the cities and municipalities we have to find tools that help get the public transport up and go. I've launched some of these -- they probably won't apply from July by, but I also think some of these instruments that strengthen the competitiveness of public transport will help us to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e950	The Council of State is quite right in that this is a municipal responsibility. At the same time, we should not trivialise the fact that there is a great need for funding and that there is a very large cost that the county councils have to bear. In addition, when the county councils do not do their job, we sometimes have to go nationally to get some speed on the initiatives. As the Minister for Transport pointed out himself, many have changed travel habits. They may have changed forever. Some of that is good – that we might travel less because of digital meetings etc. But it is clear that then we must, for example, also. look at models for which ticket types are offered to people, so that when they are going to work, they choose to travel in an environmentally friendly way. What I'm a little curious about is whether the Council itself has taken some initiative on, for example. the development of more flexible ticketing solutions or other measures to improve the adaptability of collective provision to new travel patterns.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e957	I am happy to repeat what I said in my first answer, that we have set up a working group with the collective actors, where the State Road Administration has the management. These are also proposals that have been put into practice in the working group, but it is primarily the actors themselves who have to deliver here. What's good news is that many of the actors, as I experience it, are working well on this. Some have already launched such grips, and some consider doing so. So I think the collective actors here are doing a good job. I agree that we need to adapt to the new standard — which we might consider more sustainable — namely that at least parts of the population use home offices to a greater extent. Then there will be no travel, and that is very good climate. Then there's the other perspective, which I've been so far into, that far more people are now sitting in their car. It's not quite that good.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e967	‘Can Bane NOR or the Railway Directorate now say something about when we can wait for the double track on the Eastfold Railway, including Moss Station, completed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e972	The government prioritises train provision in the Intercity area of the East, and it is very important for people's work trips and trips to school and leisure. The train is also clearly a prerequisite for reducing emissions and creating well-functioning and pleasant cities. I understand that the question from the representative is about the Sandbukta-Moss-Såstad project on the Eastfold Railway. The project facilitates reduced travel time and improvement of offers between Moss and Oslo. When we're done with this expansion, we get a reduced travel time, where you get down to 30 minutes of time on the trip between Moss and Oslo. The project has met some major challenges through challenging ground conditions at Moss centre, and the revised national budget of 2021 mentioned that the project would be delayed from 2024 to 2026 and that the cost framework would increase to a total of 18.3 billion. kr. There is a significant increase from the initial cost framework of 10,5 billion. kr. Bane NOR has cancelled part of the contract with the contractor Mossia, which is related to approx. 1 km in the centre area. Path NOR wants instead to divide the work into several basic tasks based on the up-to-date knowledge of basic conditions. In its recommendation, the NGI provides an order of action. Moss station is then one of the subprojects taken out of the agreement with Mossia. There is currently full production and good propulsion on the 9 km of the future double track under construction outside the centre. The cancellation of parts of the work at Moss Centre involves a somewhat delayed start-up in this zone. The first individual contracts are expected to be published now before the summer and start in the course of the year. Only once these contracts have been concluded is it possible to say something about the impact on progress and costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e985	Then I find that when it concerns double tracks and construction itself there, there is nothing new – there is still 2026 as a liability, as announced in RNB, while there is still no answer to when Moss station will be ready. Of course, it is regrettable that both spending languages and things take time, without the Council of State having to bear full responsibility for it. But the reality is that one now sees delays in many places, and there are still new ones being advertised. Among other things, the government announced earlier this year that there are now also delays on the Ringeriksbanen. There the party to the Council of State and the Cooperation Party have promised to start in 2022, now it will be talking about 2025 from the Secretary of State's side. My question, when one now sees that there are delays in the rate of expansion of other routes in the Austland area, is this: is it the cracks and cost increases that have occurred, that is why? Or is there any other reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e994	No, I would say that this, as we see here on the Eastfold Railway, is specifically linked to the challenges that are underlying. What has been revealed – almost fortunately – through this project is that there was great instability in the ground at Moss centre, and it is not due to the railway. When the railway project is completed, it will contribute to significantly greater safety and security for the rest of Moss City, while at the same time providing a fully modern railway solution in the city. So that's good news. So it's right to say, even though it's not related to specific individual projects, that we've signaled that we're in a situation now where we have to evaluate projects, because the economy has a high temperature. As is well known to the Chamber, there will be a need to give priority to defence, social security and preparedness, expenditure on the reception of refugees, etc. So there are some parameters that will affect, but not specifically related to the project representative mentioned, in and of their own accord.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1001	The last one is quite alarming. If it is now that because one wants to prioritise others in and on behalf of good societal goals, we can – if I interpret the Council of State correctly – expect additional releases of projects within the NTP, taking into account the situation in the Norwegian economy. If it is so that, in order to give priority, the government now chooses to prioritise important infrastructure projects and important environmental projects – which are, after all, rail development – it will be a matter of great concern, including this representative. So I have to say, it's alarming. But with the delays we are now looking at the rate of expansion, both in the case of the Eastfold Railway, the Ringerix Railway and perhaps also in the case of other projects, the question arises: When can we expect one to get the new timetable for the Austland, given all that is currently in play and the uncertain dates?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1008	As of now, we have no reason to say that we are postponing the implementation of a new timetable in Eastern Europe. But as the representative is familiar with, things can happen in the future here that make it challenges, but I'm not familiar with it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1016	I see that it has become a short question, but: ‘In the light of the new information on the costs of Fornebubanen, will the State take a greater share of this cost?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1021	I would like the representative to have a longer answer! Fornebubanen is a municipal project in which the municipality of Oslo is a builder. This project is one of those frameworks of the 50/50 scheme, where the State covers 50 pst. of the costs. In accordance with the guidelines of the 50/50 scheme established by the previous government, the country’s share shall be determined in accordance with an adopted regulatory plan for the project and after implementation of the KS2. For Fornebubanen, KS2 was implemented in 2018 and a governance framework based on KS2 was adopted locally. The country’s contribution was subsequently established. This is about 8.6 billion. NOK 2022 in kroner. According to those guidelines, the State contribution is fixed and the State shall not include and cover the cost increases for the project. However, during the previous government, the government grant was increased to 66 pst, but this increase came to be known with some special conditions, namely that one half of the increase had to be used to reduce tolls and the other half could be used to improve collective levels. As part of an overall effort to remedy the situation of public transport, the government has decided to introduce a flexibility for the subsidy scheme linked to the level of tolls. It will be voluntary, of course, for cities to use the half that is now used to reduce tolls, to improve public transport. In this way, we give local authorities the opportunity to use more of the State subsidy on public transport. At the same time, local authorities have greater scope for action to increase toll tariffs, including for electric cars, which could generate both increased revenues and have a restrictive effect on car traffic. Then I am aware that the local authorities have recently agreed on a revised Oslopacket 3, on the basis of which the Fornebuban is to be built, and that it will be implemented with high cost awareness. I am also aware that Oslo and Viken will use parts of the state grant that are now used to reduce tolls for electric cars, to Fornebubanen instead, in addition to the part that is already used for the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1034	It is true that you have an agreement on Oslopackak 3 – the decisions are not there yet – where you are stretching to get on with the project. At the same time, there is a new cost framework that is significantly larger than that of the KS2 to which the Council of State refers. Even if you get a bigger share of land ownership, that you can get the municipality to stretch more, and that you get more from the tolls, there's still going to be a pretty big gap left. In the Hurdal platform, the government and the government have assumed that they will give 70 pst. to the major collective projects. Then my question is: will the Council of State go on and give more state support, to be able to manage at all to sum up the sums in order to complete the Fornebuban?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1041	That's right, as the representative says, in the Hurdal platform, we've added 70 pst. the basis of the major collective projects. What the government is doing now is that we prefer to introduce flexibility for the grant schemes, and thus the possibility of a greater contribution to public transport, rather than a State contribution of 70 pst. at present. It is a guide from the Hurdal platform, but that is not what we are now making concrete proposals. Then I want to say that Oslo, like other urban areas, must handle the entire portfolio within the framework that is. In other words, if some projects crack — if we use that term — and get increased costs, then potentially, anything else might have to be given a different priority. This applies to all urban areas. That is what is called portfolio management and to which the previous government has a certain ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1048	At the same time, there is no doubt that in the preliminary agreement, Fornebubanen is given a strong priority, and I think it is also working hard to contribute. But it's clear that it's a very big project. Now I guess it's $23. NOK P50, if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1053	I think it is absolutely necessary – from all sides – to be able to implement the Fornebuban so that it can be realised, that everyone must reach out to get it, including from the state, which must go beyond the commitment from the past. My question is again: will the state, as this evolves, nevertheless join and extend, along with the others who are behind this large project, to increase state support up to 70 pst. of a new cost framework, as it now exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1058	The cost framework and the determination process are established. It would be very special if we were to deal differently at that point and say that the Fornebuban, although it is a very important project, was to be handled differently for Oslo than other projects. So it must be firm. So just repeating that we've now suggested solving one again, we have to say, a little strange construction that the previous government had, that you gave 16 pst. increase, where you were required to use 8 pst. to reduce tolls and 8 pst. for collective use. We are now resolving this, which I am sure the representative agrees with me is a good idea, and it helps to realize the Fornebuban if local parties want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1068	This question, from the representative Emma Georgina Lind to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1073	‘Why has the State not prioritised the launch of the process of setting up a capital currency for the Kristiansand region, and when can we expect this debate to begin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1078	The government wants to facilitate the achievement of the goal of zero growth in passenger car traffic in cities and in our urban areas in Norway, and then urban growth agreements are an important venue to achieve this. The real and the great thing about this is that there are three levels of government that combine funding and use of instruments to achieve the zero growth targets. The four major urban areas, Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Nord-Jären, have been included in the urban elections. Then there are the five smaller, the medium-sized, the cities, of which Kristiansand is a part, where the desire is to get into the position of negotiating urban capital talks with the state. I am well aware that Kristiansand is planning for a new phase of its toll-financed urban package, the Transport Package for the Kristiansand region Phase 3. A number of new measures aimed at collective, bicycle and gangways are planned to help achieve the zero growth target. That's a good starting point. Then the Norwegian economy is in a boom with prospects for rising wage and price growth and interest rates. This could lead to a worsening of the situation of high activity in the economy and a shortage of available resources, which could increase the pressure on prices and wages. That is why we need to see all the expenditure of the state in the light of the threat of warming in the Norwegian economy – and, of course, the consequences of the war in Ukraine as well. This means that we need to re-examine priorities, including in the transport sector. This is, of course, a difficult situation to face both for the state and for local authorities. We are going to achieve our climate and environmental objectives and have good urban accessibility and mobility, and of course we are not going to reduce these ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1089	As the Council of State says, these urban growth agreements are very important in order for regions to achieve their climate objectives. Kristiansand and Tromsø are two of the cities that are about to negotiate the urban capitals now. Despite repeated attempts to get the negotiations under way, the negotiations with Kristiansand have not started, or as far as you would like. In Tromsø, the rapporteur has recently referred to a letter from the Ministry of Transport that the negotiations on urban growth agreements have been put on hold – again – in the light of more stringent frameworks for the transport sector. Tromsø, like the Kristiansand region, has been ready for negotiations, followed up and adjusted to the state's demands, but the state has wavered in the matter. In meeting with the municipality of Tromsø, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport recently stated that the level of ambition is stable. Does this mean that the government will spend as much money as it has previously laid down, or will the government use the urban growth agreements, one of the most important climate measures in the transport sector, as a balancing item in the budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1096	With regard to how we set up budgets in concrete terms, I think the representative is well aware that when we present budgets it will appear. I agree that urban growth agreements are a very important instrument. An economic space related to the NTP has been outlined, while it is also very clear in the NTP — and in all projects — that it needs to be phased into the economy as there is economic scope for action. So I think it's right to say that in the case of Kristiansand, they're in a position where at least they're on their way to urban growth negotiations, because they have a city package on which they're now going to have a new round. It is likely to be treated here at some point because it requires new processes in the urban package. So that's a prerequisite first, before maybe you get on with urban growth negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1105	According to data from Agder public transport, lack of urban capital could lead to a 35-ps cut in the collective offer in Kristiansand, and there will be less money for measures to make it simpler for cycling and walking. Thus, an urban capital speech is very important for Kristiansand and Agder, and cutting off the financial contributions to this will be very serious. Kristiansand, Tromsø, and the three other urban areas involved in urban capitals need to be clarified. It is important for the climate and the environment and for the legitimacy of the tolling system. In Tromsø, tolls are introduced into the harvest and, in order to ensure that these revenues and rewards are not wasted, it is important to clarify when this money comes from the state. When will it be clear how much money the government spends on urban growth agreements? Will it be when the State budget is presented, or will the municipalities and county councils get clear on this before, so that they can start work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1114	I think it is first necessary to clarify that when one enters into negotiations and has come so far, it should be negotiated. So if someone has thought that you have safe money to operate public transport in the cities now, I think you've been above ambitious. After all, the operation of public transport is a municipal responsibility, and it is also – and it is important to point out – that there are reward agreements with these cities today. They also have their own urban packages that contribute to funding – some use it collectively, but very few do it alone, they use it mostly on foot, bicycle and collective. That is, they are building up infrastructure that makes this better. So in terms of when you can expect to get in touch with the city platform, the representative will not get a clear answer from me about it now, because it also depends on the other party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1125	‘The national transport plan is set at 10 billion kroner for negotiations on urban growth rates in five urban areas, including Tromsø. In a letter from the government to Tromsø, it appears that the government cannot give undertakings about the financial framework for an agreement now. There is uncertainty about the timing of an urban capital speech for Tromsø and how much the government should contribute. Will an urban capital talk with Tromsø be concluded during 2022, and is it such that the government will reduce the level of ambition for the development of transport in the largest city of North Norway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1132	The first round of negotiations on a city platform for Tromsø took place on 24 March, and the State Road Administration led the negotiations. At this meeting, an ambition was set up that the State should present the country's financial framework on 16 May. In view of the economic situation and recent government signals, the State Road Administration asked for feedback from the Ministry of Transport if clarifications were needed in addition to the framework mandated by the State Road Administration, which was given in a letter dated 6 April. In a letter dated 25 April to the State Road Administration, the Ministry of Transport wrote: ‘In the light of the economic situation and recent signals, the level of ambition in the transport sector needs to be assessed in greater detail. [[...]] This could have consequences for the economic environment in a possible urban capital speech for Tromsø. The Ministry of Transport is therefore not in a position to provide an economic framework for an urban change speech with Tromsø now and must return to the State contribution when the framework of the State budget 2023 is clarified.» The overall objective of an urban growth rate is the zero growth target, i.e. greenhouse gas emissions, queues, air pollution and noise should be reduced through efficient land use by taking the growth of passenger transport with public transport, cycling and walking. Negotiations on an urban currency will therefore cover many themes, and they must be seen in context across administrative levels. It should therefore, in the light of this, be a lot to discuss if we are going to achieve the overall goal. I therefore see it as beneficial and appropriate that the negotiations continue as planned. As I see it, it's through negotiations that we can develop good solutions for Tromsø and achieve the overall goal. The question of the agreement can be concluded in 2022: there are negotiations on an urban exchange rate. An agreement will require agreement between the parties, and an agreement shall be approved both locally and regionally. I hope, of course, that there will be an agreement. That's my ambition. But such agreement and agreement will depend not only on the state but also on the other parties involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1148	It's fine with ambitions, but what people in North Norway and Tromsø need is clear signals – and I don't see that the Council of State is giving any more of this. The Council of State has repeatedly said that Tromsø has misunderstood the content of the letter that was sent, but it is clear – as the Council of State has also pointed out – that it needs to assess the level of ambition and that it could have economic consequences for an urban growth speech with Tromsø. Then I wonder very much what the Council of State thinks is the misunderstanding, because as I and many others read the letter – and we can discuss whether it should have been sent or not – the government will bring down the state's contribution in an urban capital speech with Tromsø. If this was not the case, the government should not have sent such a letter at all. The consequence of the government taking down the government contribution is that either you have to cut off the projects, or people have to pay more in tolls. So my follow-up question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State guarantee that the state's contribution in an urban capital speech with Tromsø will not be lowered, and that the sum of 10 billion. kr in the NTP until an urban currency remains constant?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1155	I don't know what it's like with the representative, but in my world, it's very rare to be presented in negotiations for the final result at start-up. At least that is one of the exceptions. It has to be negotiated, and what is achieved through these processes must, of course, be financed through the State budget. To it with signals to Tromsø: Yes, we have given a signal to Tromsø that we are going to start urban growth negotiations, as opposed to the previous government, which did not. So at least we've seen the cards and shown that we want to get started with it. We have given a mandate, we are in the process of negotiations, and then, of course, the negotiations must take us to a final outcome. I can't guess in advance what is the outcome of such a process. But it's very important for the state that we achieve the zero growth targets. The main point of that letter has been to make what everyone here in this Chamber knows, namely that a government budget is not a government budget until it is adopted. The State cannot commit until a budgetary decision is taken in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1164	But what the previous government contributed to was implementing Tromsø in an urban capital speech, which allows us to get these state funds. I understand that one cannot forge the final result – that is why one should have negotiations – but in an answer to a written question I asked the Council of State last November, the Council of State wrote that the amount of the state financial contribution will be a topic in the negotiations. So this is five months ago, and now all of a sudden the financial contribution of the state is not to be the subject of the negotiations. Then it is so clearly perceived by people and politicians in Tromsø that the state should reduce its level of ambition. I almost just have to ask the Council one more time: He's going to guarantee that someone won't rock that 10-billion-dollar frame. kr in the national transport plan? And does the state maintain its ambition for a high state share in an urban capital speech for Tromsø? It must almost answer if you're going to be clear to people in the north, who need the kind of investment that we're talking about here, in connection with an urban growth rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1171	The representative is very aware of the fact that the national transport plan is a major message, and the big message states something that is quite obvious – that the economic framework will have an impact on the country’s economic situation, and on the priorities that are being pursued at all times. It applies to urban growth agreements as to all other projects. I just repeat that this was a letter to the State Road Administration, who asked if they could establish a framework for the process. We couldn't do that now, but there's nothing wrong with the process of discussing economics. But the framework for the negotiations is not yet defined. It will come after the adoption of a State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1181	‘TV 2 has focused on many problems related to Norwegian patient compensation [[NPE]] How does the Council of State justify that she herself was clear on a full review of the NPE when she put in opposition, while she now does not mean this is a priority?"
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1188	It is the Stortinge that has adopted the framework for the patient injury regime. It is sufficient that an injury is caused by a failure of treatment and that the patient has suffered an economic loss or a lasting harm as a result of the failure. Compensation is measured according to the rules of the Compensation Act and general rules on compensation. Norwegian patient damages, NPE, investigates the case. The Supreme Court has established that documentation from the time following the alleged failure, e.g. records in journals and epicrisis, weighs most heavily in assessing whether health care was in line with good medical practice. Information from the patient himself is also part of the decision-making basis. The NPE has stated that they also carry out meetings with replacement applicants in some of the most extensive and difficult cases, particularly in the context of the compensation assessment. During the pandemic, direct patient contact has been somewhat reduced. The degree of invalidity is determined by means of invalidity tables, which are set out in the regulation. The decision is taken by the NPE or in the name – not by the medical expert. I am asking for an understanding that I do not go into individual matters. The NPE and the Patient Injury Study are independent administrative bodies which cannot be instructed on interpretation of laws, judgements or decisions in individual cases. The decision may be appealed against to the sufferer and the decision of the respondent may be referred to the Court of Justice. The Patient Injury Scheme provides rights and legal certainty for patients who are injured in receiving health care, but there is, of course, room for improvement. I have therefore invited the Association of Lawyers to a meeting to deepen their concerns that the legal certainty of patients is not well enough. It's a meeting that we've agreed to on 20 May. We have set ambitious goals in the Hurdal platform to improve and strengthen our common health and care service. The review of the patient injury regime was not prioritised, so I will not take the initiative for a total review now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1203	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say I am a little surprised at what the Council of State is saying in this Chamber. The feedback from some of the leading patients' rights lawyers in terms of patients' damages is that the state council passes on in this room that patients are being met, and that they are being taken with them, is not the experience that patients have. I want to keep drilling a little bit -- the Council's opinion on the feedback from lawyers and those that apply, it's rare I get as many requests as what I get on issues relating to Norwegian patient compensation, and the arrogant way many of the patients experience Norwegian patient compensation. The fact that the Council of State is standing here saying that there have been good meetings, and that people get a meeting, is not the experience out there. The Council of States must respond to that properly. Will the Council of State go back and check this out? You're saying you're going to meet with the Bar Association on 20 May. It's good, but I think it's serious when we have such an arrangement, that patients and lawyers think it's not right for the council to tell us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1210	When the representative Hoksrud puts on characteristics such as ‘good meetings’, ‘good order’ and such things, he puts words in his mouth at the Council of State. It is good that we have good rapporteurs who write minutes from Stortingen's negotiations, because then the Council of State can be responsible for what the Council of State has actually said, and not the representative Hoksrud claims I am saying. I've agreed to a meeting with the Association of Lawyers to get their views on this. I look forward to that, and I hope there will be a dialogue in which they will be allowed to describe the challenges they face in their important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1217	I heard very well what the Council of State said, and I heard that the Council of State said that the feedback she received from the NPE is that it is good dialogue. But the experience expressed massively by the lawyers is very clear that you don't have the good process, and you don't get invited to those meetings – you don't have the meetings that the council said. I also record that the Council of State has had a glide flight from when she was here in opposition to now as the Council of State, saying that in the Hurdal platform this is not a priority. That means that the 30,000 patients who have complained about their cases in the last five years now experience having a government council that goes beyond what she said in opposition, namely that they should review this important system. It's about trust and trustworthiness. I had expected that the Council of State actually followed up what she said in opposition, when she became the Council of State, but I understand that this was not taken into account in the Hurdal platform. That means that you do not take into account the 30,000 people who have complained in the last five years, and very many of them have not actually been treated as expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1224	The President reminds the representative that the speech should be directed through the President and not in du form to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1229	In the Hurdal platform, we say very clearly that we want to strengthen patient safety and quality. We have just set up a sample to review the Health Authority's warning system, and we have other initiatives that we believe are directly involved in a commitment to strengthening patient safety. To review this system now, I have not taken the initiative. What we're doing is talking to the actors who think that things don't work well enough. I look forward to hearing the views of the Association when I sit down with them on 20 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1237	‘The Directorate-General for Dental Guidance states that what is good clinical practice in dental care is independent of whether the patient pays himself or another party contributes financially to the treatment. Nevertheless, people who receive dental treatment covered by Nav have been found to receive treatment in accordance with lower professional standards. Will the Council of State do something to ensure a more equivalent practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1244	Economic benefits under the Social Services Act shall be provided and measured in the light of a concrete assessment of the overall situation and actual needs of individuals. The application is decided by the municipalities after treatment by Nav's advisory dentist. The assessment is based on an assessment of what is considered necessary dental treatment in accordance with current professional and sound recommendations and, according to the National Guide to Good Dental Clinical Practices, ‘Good Dental Clinical Practice — A Guide to the Use of Professional Discipline in Needed Dental Treatment’. In the private dental care, there is free pricing, which means price differences between different dentists. It may also be that some dentists wish to carry out more advanced treatment than is deemed necessary dental treatment, but it is only necessary dental treatment in line with current professional recommendations that can be covered. I would also like to point out that decisions on economic social assistance are individual decisions. The Nav Office must comply with the procedural requirements of the Social Services Act, the Administrative Act and unwritten standards of good administration. A simple decision on economic social assistance may be appealed against to the State administrator. In other words, it is important to appeal to the decision if the complainant considers that dental treatment is granted that is not in line with current professional recommendations on the need for dental treatment, i.e. according to the National Health Directorate’s Guide on good dental clinical practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1253	Here we're talking about people who have addiction or mental health problems behind them. There could be refugees, there are people with diseases that give bad dental health. The Dental Association has also been concerned that these are being treated according to standards other than those that pay, and that temporary, poor solutions can be chosen, solutions that are otherwise not used for young people. These people who are getting dental care now are in the middle of life, and they're going to be able to eat and smile for years to come. But we see that the practice is not in all cases consistent with the guidelines to which the Council of State so well referred. Then I wonder if the council believes it is acceptable that in some cases Nav requires that a tooth that could have been rescued with a normal procedure such as root filling be drawn when it is Nav that pays?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1260	I believe that the guidelines should be followed. If you feel that this is not the case, it is very important to complain to the government administrator. They then reveal and document the difference, if any, for those who feel that they are not receiving dental treatment in line with the current professional recommendations, and what is then necessary dental treatment. That's the right the community has given them, and that's the right they're going to have, and I'm very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1265	I have actually read the Hurdal platform so that the government also agrees that it needs to be ensured in a better way that those who have the right to free public dental services get a right and good offer – because it says in the Hurdal platform, so that means that the government also agrees that it has not been good enough. It also states that the government will strengthen support schemes for them with the worst advice and review the reimbursement schemes in the dental field. What happens now is that when the teeth are not treated as part of the body, not only are professional assessments, but both the economy and the hub make their assessments on the basis of what kind of treatment people receive – and we cannot have it so that they with poor finances get worse help. Then I wonder: When and in what way do they come with the worst advice, and those who have social security rights, to notice some of what is on the Hurdal platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1272	It's going to be noted in the annual budgets. Then there's a bigger work going on based on request decisions from the Storting, which also Red is part of, with an overall review of the dental field and a separate message to the Stortinget on it. So we're working on that. I very much agree that the Hurdal platform shows direction in order to give priority to the most important thing first, that we start by giving priority to those who need dental care, but who for various reasons are less secure to get it. So that's what we'll follow up, both through the annual budgets and in the overall work on the dental field that points towards the Hurdal platform, with more public and equivalent services also within this part of the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1286	This question, from the representative Hege Bae Nyholt to the Minister of Knowledge, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1300	The development in which offenders use the Internet to get in touch with children and young people in order to commit abuse is very worrying. That's what I think we share. It is an area in which, sadly, there are inexhaustible opportunities to commit crime, and it may be difficult to discover. That is why the government is very concerned that we are stepping up our efforts to combat violence and abuse in concrete terms, but also what is specifically linked to the Internet. We are very clear on that on the Hurdal platform, and we have been working on this since we joined this autumn. We have announced an escalation plan against violence and abuse against children and violence in close relations. It shall include, inter alia: contribute to strengthening efforts to combat network abuse. An obligation to oblige service providers to notify if their services are used to commit criminal offences or distribute illegal material, I believe it is important that we investigate further, and it may be appropriate to introduce this in Norway. But Internet-related abuse is a cross-border problem. We see that online material may have been in many countries. It may be an offence committed in a country by an attacker who is in a completely different country, or against a child who is not in the same place as the attacker. There is a need not only for national efforts but also for international cooperation. Therefore, I believe it is very important that the investigation of such a duty as we are now talking about is carried out in cooperation with our neighbouring country. The proposal from the European Commission, to which the representative refers, would be natural to look at. I am committed to having good dialogue with those who provide telecommunications services here in Norway and who have a lot of the market, and therefore many of the platforms that can be used for this. That is why I have invited you to a meeting on this in the department on Friday. It's first of all Telenor and Telia we're going to discuss this with. I have also invited VIPPS, because we know that VIPPS, among other things. used for the sharing of illegal material. It'll be important. We're going to discuss Internet-related abuses and prevent them, but of course I'll also address other digital crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1311	It's very good with cooperation in Europe, which the Center Party is probably not so very concerned about otherwise. Both Kripos and the police have for a long time asked for tools to protect children from this type of crime, and we see from Operation Spiderweb that South-West police districts have benefited greatly from the cooperation with the American organization National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, NCMEC, which reports to the Norwegian police if they detect assault material. Then there is no reason to expect the EU to put in place legislation until something happens in our own country. According to Operation Spiderweb, from January 2019 to February 2022, a total of 20 convictions started with NCMEC reporting. So the question is, why won't the Council of State give the police this tool as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1318	I want to give this tool to the police as soon as possible. I think it is important that we have a thorough background to introduce this kind of duty to service providers. There may be a lot of demanding questions and intersections that we have to figure out. The representative is wrong when she claims that the centre party, my party, is not involved in European cooperation. I'm very concerned about that. I am concerned that we will cooperate with countries around us and with countries in other parts of the world. But I believe, unlike the Right, that Norway must ultimately make the decisions itself. So to cooperate we can do, but the decision on what the final solution will look like, I think it has to be in Norway. And it does. That is why we need to have our own investigation of this, but the Commission's proposals will be important because many countries in Europe are close to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1325	The introduction of the obligation to notify in the event of an infringement is a follow-up to the strategy already put forward by the Solberg Government in August 2021. I have asked several questions to the Council of State about how today's government will combat and prevent violence and abuse. The Council of State pointed out a moment ago that the government will present its own escalation plan, without saying anything at all at the time of the submission. My questions are: When can we expect the escalation plan to be presented? Why can the strategy presented in August 2021 not provide a basis for action until a new strategy is available?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1330	The strategy presented in August 2021 provides a basis for action until a new strategy is in place. That's what we're working for, until we put forward our own escalation plan. I think it's just positive that we continue the work the previous government started on, and that we have even greater ambitions to fight violence and assault. I think that's also necessary. I think that's ambition we share, because this problem is both growing and very big. It affects many vulnerable children and young people. It's happening on the Internet, which is one side of most of what we're doing today. I also want to add the following, which is really related to the previous question: It's quite right, as Foss said, that through NCMEC we've been exposed and charged with assault here in Norway. It shows why it is important to cooperate, but the decision, as I have said, must, in my opinion, be taken on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1344	This question, from Marius Arion Nilsen to the Minister of Oil and Energy, is postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-04.ana.ud28e1358	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
