ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e28	The representative, Sivert Bjørnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e33	On behalf of the big business representatives Roy Steffensen, Helge André Njåstad, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to postpone the changes in the property tax on farm concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e38	The representative, Matilde Tybring-Gjedde, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e43	On behalf of the representatives of Mari Holm Lønneth, Sandra Bruflot and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a more sustainable and circular textile industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e48	The representative, Mr Sylvi Listhaug, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e53	On behalf of the Progress Party and the representatives Hans Andreas Limi, Roy Steffensen and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal for income policy cooperation through the wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e58	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e74	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e81	In the last few weeks, and perhaps in the last few days, we've all been sitting with an intense tension, not necessarily just because we have an O.L., good results and a lot to enjoy, but mainly because we have a violent, difficult situation in our own neighbourhoods, what looked like – and perhaps still looks like – to be able to result in war in our neighbourhoods because of an increased Russian aggression against Ukraine. In these morning hours it seems that the Russians at least believe that they are withdrawing, and that they have completed the exercises so far. Nevertheless, the pressure that Ukraine has been under over the last few weeks — perhaps in recent years, but especially in the last few weeks — gives a clear and clear signal from Russia that they do not accept the fundamental principle that we have laid down and that modern societies are basing themselves on, namely that each country's population has the right to make its own choices in the future. Yesterday the government came with a strengthening of our participation in Lithuania militarily, to strengthen our partners there. But my question to the Prime Minister is first and foremost: What is the government's assessment of the situation as it looks now? Do we see a real withdrawal of the Russian forces from the border, or is it still such that we have to be prepared for a conflict in our neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e90	I said before Christmas that the situation that was under escalation around Ukraine is the most serious security policy situation we have seen in Europe since the end of the Cold War. It's just evolved in that direction. And let me start by saying: it is unacceptable to force a debate on political issues between countries through military upgrading and a direct threat to a country, by extensive military exercises, a comprehensive movement of troops to land, to water, to air – heavy material – and a scenario for a possible large-scale invasion and war in Europe in 2022. We have to take a clear distance from that. Every country in Europe has the right, in accordance with a wide range of treaties and principles, agreements and organisations, to live in security, choose its way and be safe with its neighbours and other countries. Europe has many tools to discuss such issues if they are unexplained. This also applies to the situation in and around Ukraine, where there is the situation of the occupation of Crimea, the conflict in eastern Ukraine and the so-called Minsk process. There are therefore several discussions in progress to address the security needs of Ukraine and countries around it. That's the way we have to go. What is the assessment today? Well, we're told in the morning that there's a withdrawal of forces, and that the military exercise in Crimea is over. We have to analyse this more to know what the intentions behind it are. There are still extensive exercises in Belarus, close to the border of Ukraine. It has also been so in the past that military aggression has taken place on the tame of exercises. So the capacity to carry out military attacks against Ukraine is present. Whether the will is there is an open question, and it shall remain open. I think that is part of the Russian intention, that they produce political negotiations on the basis of military pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e101	Just because we know that maneuvers can sometimes take place before an invasion, before an attack – in addition to having hybrid threats, such as the major cyberattacks that are also ongoing, which help destabilise internally in Ukraine – it is important to know what our answers are. On the Right side, we have asked questions about our assistance for one round, both last week and before, and I am, as I said, happy that we have now said that we will participate more in NATO. But we have also asked the question whether Norway should not increase its humanitarian aid to Ukraine. Before Christmas in 2014, I visited Ukraine. Then we had the big refugee flows after the turmoil east of Ukraine. There are still 1.8 million people who are vulnerable and who need help. Before Christmas, the United Nations asked for increased contributions of $1.7 billion. kr. So these are our neighbourhoods, and my question to the government is: Will you now contribute to raising the level when the UN asks for it, precisely because there is an even more difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e110	The representative, Solberg, mentions our neighbourhoods and Europe. I am aware that these are our neighbourhoods, but short of our close proximity areas, namely in the north and in the north: there are no threats to Norway. There is reason to pass it on to the Norwegian population. There is no sign of increased voltage in the north. On the contrary, Russia has moved some of its materials from the north to this area. We have had good contact and cooperation with Ukraine over the years. Ukraine knows that they are part of cooperation between countries that also provide humanitarian assistance. Now, of course, we're going to keep looking at that in the future. The contribution to Lithuania – let me stress it – is about solidarity with a NATO member. Ukraine is not a member of NATO, so it does not trigger that commitment to collective defence should there be an attack, but it is clear that it will affect the whole of Europe. That's why this is to give security to our allies in NATO, like Lithuania. There is no offensive in this, but security. We contribute to that with what was announced by the government yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e119	There will be follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e124	I hear the Prime Minister says it's an ongoing assessment. I don't think that's that much speed in that race, because this is the third question-trap where we're asking the government if we're going to increase aid to Ukraine in this situation. It is a country that now almost does not receive international investment, which has major challenges with a people who have fled, and more refugees from the areas in question, and who need humanitarian assistance. So the UN asked for an increase before Christmas, and Norway has not increased. In this little bit of a pace of government humanitarian aid, the question is, when do you conclude with that? When I think these are our neighbourhoods, it's actually not that far to Ukraine from Norway. It's an infectious effect, it's a possible wave of escape that can come, and it's important that we help. It helps destabilize all of our neighbouring countries. It is not without reason that e.g. neighbouring countries, such as Sweden and Finland, have had a much higher political discussion and have been more forward-looking with assistance these days, because they feel that what Russia is now doing is trying to establish a principle that will also affect them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e131	I repeat that we are going to evaluate the situation. Whether or not this is at a rate that the representative of Solberg can agree to, we have a dialogue. I feel that we agree here in this Chamber that we should support Ukraine politically. We have also supported them with a wide range of capacity-building measures. And we're going to do that in the future. Then it is important to focus on one more thing when it comes to neighbourhoods and Norway's responsibilities. The situation is that other countries can travel to Ukraine, they can contribute with military material. We cannot, in accordance with our export rules, and I think that is absolutely right that we cannot, but Norway's important contribution to stability and security in Europe today is being made by being Norway and having a responsibility in the north. We're NATO's eyes and ears in the north, we're following developments there. It is of great importance to understand what is happening in Europe — how troops can move, how exercises can develop. It is my clear impression after having had talks with France, Germany, the United States and the leaders there, that that role they now expect Norway to play – plus that we are a credible supplier of gas to a Europe that is now hit by a gas crisis, among other things. because of the situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e138	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e144	I do not disagree that Norway's role is to be NATO's eyes in the north. But our role is also to provide assistance to countries that are in fact under pressure in relation to the fundamental responsibilities of international law and the rights that you have, namely the right to self-determination. When a country is in crisis, Norway has had a long tradition of assisting with more humanitarian aid. I record that it has not yet been planned by the government, despite a UN appeal before Christmas. We lifted the aid when we were in government, and we've had a high level over these years, precisely because we've felt that in our neighbourhoods we have a special responsibility to contribute. One of the areas of capacity on which cooperation becomes even more important is the issue of the detection of those cyberattacks. Then my question about the government and the various services is now contributing to international work so that we work much more together to identify those responsible for cyberattacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e151	Now we're working on a new strategy for NATO, a strategic concept, and there's this with cyber inside too much. It wasn't ten years ago when we made the last strategic concept. So the capacity of NATO – and therefore the Member States – is built up in this area. It's important, and it's part of our defense. These hybrid threats, which are not as clear as any physically crossing a boundary and triggering self-defense, can happen through cyberattacks, etc. –we must be able to defend ourselves against. It is also important to take up our national debate in this Chamber. Nordics, whether they're private on their networks on different platforms or businesses, have to think through this and protect themselves. The Stortinget itself has experienced this, and we must also experience that in Norway. This is a threat that is significantly more at the head now than it was a few years ago, and that we probably have to live with in the future. So being able to understand and defend itself against digital threats in cyber is important for Norway, it is important for NATO, and Norway should, of course, make a full contribution to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e156	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e161	We can hope that what we have heard in the morning hours today about apparent withdrawal, actually votes, but I think both the Prime Minister and I can agree that it does not mean that the pressure against Ukraine necessarily decreases. One of the challenges now facing Ukraine is the resilience of the economy. Yesterday the EU adopted a new support package for Ukraine of 1.2 billion. EUR, nearly 12 billion. kr. Both the United States and Canada have announced large loans and credit guarantees, which are important in this context. As far as I understand, as early as December, Ukraine asked Norway for increased support to strengthen the resilience of its economy. They also asked for support for, among other things, mobile hospitals, ambulances, medical devices, etc. My question to the Prime Minister is what assessments the government is now making of these requests from Ukraine for more financial support and support for medical devices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e168	I think the most important thing now is that Norway and other countries are contributing to a reduction in military tension. That's the way to make Ukraine's economy work again. It is clear that parts of what has been the message in the last days from the Western team about a imminent invasion are not exactly favourable to the investment climate and the economy of Ukraine. So that's important contributions we're going to make when we're in contact with our allies and in the discussions around this. The fact that Russia is withdrawing strengths from an exercise is a positive sign -- well, I'm open to it, but it can't be that you build a huge pressure through exercises, you take down a little bit, and then it's positive. There is still an unacceptable situation and an unacceptable pressure on Ukraine. I'm going to visit the European Commission next week, and then this is one of the issues we're going to talk about; how Europe is now cooperating, not just with Ukraine, but with the countries in the neighbourhood. Norway will then also assess whether there is a basis for making changes to our approach, but today it is the military and security policy situation that has our priority, and also with our allies in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e177	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e182	As I was in it, the military pressure Russia is exerting against Ukraine is totally unacceptable. Although a temporary reduction of military forces is still a significant build-up. In reality, Russia still surrounds Ukraine, and it is a reality that is not about Western rhetoric but about an unprovoked military aggression from Russia. I also fully agree with the government's line of consulting closely with allies in view of reactions to Russia, whether in terms of economic restrictive measures or other issues. My question to the Prime Minister is a little further than that: how does the Prime Minister see that any new Russian invasion of Ukraine will affect the bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e189	I don't want to speculate in a Russian invasion of Ukraine. I think we should say that this is completely unacceptable. If that happens, we are in a new era in Europe. It will be such a massive and huge infringement, and also a change in the principles that apply in Europe, that we have to make it very clear. It goes without saying that such a development will have an impact on Russia's relationship with all countries, including its neighbouring countries. After the invasion of Crimea and eastern Ukraine, it affected the co-operation climate in the north. I believe that neighbors need to have contact, talk together and solve things that arise between them. It must be done in good days and bad days. Often it is that cold winds that blow in the north do not occur in the north, but they come from situations like this. in Ukraine. But now I believe that we need to put all our energy into finding a different path from that of the military, starting political talks and doing it in a way that respects the fundamental principles of Europe. It cannot be the result of political pressure that violates the basic principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e194	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e199	This is an extremely difficult situation with the threat from Russia to Ukraine. In the Russian rhetoric, NATO is not a threat to Russia. It is rather that it is democratic development in Ukraine, and also other old Soviet republics, such as Moldova and Georgia, that are perceived to be a threat to Putin's rule in Russia. It is not just in Ukraine that there are now Russian forces. It's in Transnistria in Moldova, it's in South Ossetia, and it's in Abkhazia, and then it's the Crimean occupation and also east of Ukraine. My question to the Prime Minister will be: Will Norway increase its support for Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia in the years to come, in support of democratic development? This year’s budget included: Ukraine cut by 128 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e204	We support democratic development in some cases bilaterally and in others through what is happening in the Council of Europe, in the OSCE, in the international processes. Many of the areas mentioned by the representative are referred to as frozen conflicts. That is, there is a conflict that has no sign of a solution, where it is blocked in the OSCE, often by Russia itself, and which blocks the possibility of then finding solutions to it. The political trail has always been worked out by Norway to help, that there will be negotiations to resolve it. So we're going to evaluate whether we have assumptions to give help to one and the other area. These are in some cases areas where who has sovereignty and state power can vary. But we deserve these frozen conflicts to find solutions – again – in line with the important principles of the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and the fundamental principles of security and stability in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e210	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e215	The Progress Party believes that Norway is on the wrong track, and we are concerned about the development. As the state becomes richer and richer, people and businesses become poorer. The Big Government is withdrawing unfathomable amounts. There is an oil price of more than $90 barrel, record high gas prices, $10 billion extra on electricity, and on top of this, the biggest tax increase from one year to another has been carried out over the last 20 years. This is the fait accompli of Minister of Finance Trygve Slagsvold Vedum and Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre. At the same time as the state serves for itself, the common people's turn is to be skinned. Everyone gets worse advice under this government, and those who have the least are, of course, hit hardest. Power bills have more than doubled for households. Businesses are even tougher, because they don't get any compensation, and we hear about companies that get five and six times their bills. So all the surplus – and a little more – is going to cover the electricity bill. Fuel prices have passed 20 kroner a gallon, which hit people as well as companies that depend on the car. Food prices are rising, and they may increase sharply in the future. We see that fertiliser prices go up, and we see that many of the inputs also go up. The Minister of Agriculture will end the price war at the top and will obviously want people to pay more for food. The Progress Party has proposed to reduce fuel taxes, to have a maximum electricity price, to remove taxes, to remove VAT – but the government has voted against all of this. Why does the government do so little to help people most and businesses when the state earns rich, while ordinary people are being skinned? Was this government thinking that it was the turn of ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e226	After eight years of increasing disparities in Norway, and where they were most likely to enter the queue when the important issues were to be determined and the large amount of money allocated, there is a new thinking and practice from this government. Now they get tax cuts with middle and lower incomes. They get more reasonable kindergartens, more reasonable SFOs, they get help in a wide range of areas that allow them to live a decent life, and have access to a welfare state that was being privatised and broken up – in line with the thinking of the Progress Party. There's a clear change in course. Workers are now given increased rights to work, more security in their jobs, less temporaryity and more dignified conditions, in line with Norwegian traditions. So I fundamentally disagree with the description of reality from the representative, Listhaug. Then our part of the world is hit by a power crisis that affects all countries, including Norway. It creates an extremely difficult situation for many families who have to pay more for the flow – not just a little more, but a lot more. After 2020 had very low prices, 2021 had very, very high prices. It has been taken by the government and the Storting to do something about it. The electricity charge has been reduced, after it was carefully set up with the Progress Party in the government. There has been an increase in housing support, an increase in social assistance, and we have developed a whole new tool in the drawer of the welfare state in order to be able to rescue households at high power prices. None of it was clear after the Progress Party had been in majority for eight years. Then prices on some inputs will go up and down in our world, and it's interesting to hear that the Progress Party's view then is that in terms of all these prices, the state should enter and be the regulator and smooth it out. There is an interesting practice from the Progress Party, which it will be exciting to follow in the future as well. We're preparing and evening out differences. We're putting up with people with large amounts of money – through the pandemic – and now also through this power crisis. It's very difficult for people, and we follow it very closely, and we give people that security. If these high prices persist, people will still have a state to set them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e237	I don't think you'll find anyone who is familiar with the description that you've got a better economy. This year's wage settlement is approaching, and most people are less likely to travel because of the price range that is within very many commodity groups. LO and the Joint Association, at Jørn-Henning Eggum, are ready that the claim has now been reinforced in purchasing power. It is requirement No one. Many companies have suffered major losses because of the corona, but also because of exceptional electricity costs, where zero compensation is obtained. The Progress Party believes that it is the state's turn to contribute to ensuring a wage settlement that ensures jobs, but most importantly ensures the purchasing power of our citizens. You can do that by cutting taxes and taxes, by not taking in as much sums as this government unfortunately does. Extra income exists to do so. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative that the state contributes to increasing purchasing power for people, that we secure jobs by reducing taxes and taxes, so that people get better out of this year's paycheck, without breaking our businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e244	What's happy at the beginning of 2022, when we're on our way out of the pandemic measures, is that the Norwegian economy is going very well. It's growth, unemployment falls, and we have signs that companies are investing and saving to bet as well. So both businesses and people are hit by a power crisis, and it requires something from some and from each of us. We go into a large and comprehensive wage settlement, and in a demanding time, and in such a settlement, the government is clear: the parties are responsible. The parties are responsible for settling down and negotiating on the basis of the situation in the economy, based on requirements and offers. I had a meeting with the contact committee, which is all the social partners, on Monday, and the very clear message to them is that they take that responsibility. They take that responsibility, and the government takes its responsibility, and that's to keep track of the situation, but respect that the parties are responsible. The order of the Progress Party is to interfere in wage negotiations. It doesn't want the parties, and it doesn't want the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e249	There will be follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e254	Our job is to secure people's purchasing power. The Norwegian economy is going well, but it is the state that is going extremely well, and then there are very many common people who are now struggling. In an interview in the VG in December, the Minister of Finance, Slagsvold Vedum, looked at the glass sphere. He promised the Norwegians more to leave in 2022 as well as in 2023. Status so far is that people are concerned about the economy and have gotten far less to walk with after the government change. Many wonder where this price will end, and the power prices are predicted to be sky high, potentially for many years to come. How is the government going to keep the promise that most people will get more to go with this year and next year, without contributing with tax cuts, when we now see how the prices of almost absolute everything is increasing, making huge cuts in the ordinary people's wallet?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e263	Now, for the first time, the government has helped people with normal incomes to pay less in taxes. There is also a different approach to taxes, and there are a number of important welfare services in people's lives that are now becoming available and fairer. The wage settlement will then determine what wage developments will be for workers, based on negotiations and the requirements set out in the negotiations – demands and offers. That's the way to do this. It may not be the responsibility of the government and the State to be ahead of a wage settlement and to calculate what is needed to achieve the objectives which the Contracting Party must set itself for purchasing power. The Minister of Finance was absolutely right when we look into the future what we can contribute to the fact that it is a good year in the Norwegian economy. But there is an extremely demanding situation, among other things. connected to the current. That's why this government has done something that the representative Listhaug never had in the eight years she put in government, namely to support families and households at high electricity prices with a scheme that we haven't had before, which is there now, and which, of course, we have to follow closely if these prices persist beyond.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e270	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e275	No, you didn't, because the electricity prices were extremely much lower in the eight years, and with the biggest tax and tax scarfs you've now implemented from this government, you've contributed crumbs, so I don't think anyone's impressed. But Norway has had 30 years of amazing prosperity. While the government is donating money, analyses now show that the necessary cost of living will increase sharply towards 2025. Some evidence suggests that prosperity development in Norway is halting. The weak economy is, of course, the hardest hit, but even families with the usual economy are going to notice this. It is in particular the boute fees that are increasing, interest expenses, insurance and energy costs, but also property taxes and municipal taxes, which we see that red-green politicians are eager to take in. Politicians in the state and municipality are involved in making it more expensive to live and live, and weakening the purchasing power of ordinary people. Does the Prime Minister think it is reasonable that the state should become richer and richer, while political decisions now lead to people becoming poorer, and that more people will have problems getting to grips with the ends?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e284	I disagree with this description. I believe that the Norwegian welfare state is able to be actively present and ensure people's safety for health, education and basic well-being. We want to make it stronger, wider and accessible to more people. We want to stop the development of privatisation in key health, education and welfare areas, so that this is accessible to people regardless of income. It's an ideal in our welfare state. It should also apply throughout the country. Then we have to have a policy for what over time helps us to have equal relationships, and then people can live their lives with different assumptions within that framework. The fact that we have a state that has a good economy compared to other countries makes it possible for us to choose that way. But we also go into a water that is narrower, where we have to think through how we prioritise, and cutting dramatically the state's revenues, which the Progress Party will do, will not contribute to achieving the objectives of justice and equal living conditions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e290	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e295	Not only do people suffer from high record electricity prices, record high petrol and diesel prices and a sharp rise in food prices, which are at full speed up. At the top of this, this government, which went to the elections to make everyday life better for ordinary people, has made it much worse to be sick by the fact that the excess is increased by nearly 500 kroner. And not enough: we have a government that wants to extend the hospital queues. People who have been exposed to their operations for a very difficult time, with pandemics, have to wait even longer to get help because the government is allergic to private actors. What will the Prime Minister say to all those suffering from a health queue because the government is not willing to use all available capacity, both public and private?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e300	I would like to say to them: this government prioritises, as its main concern, access to well-being on an equal footing in Norway, and health care should be the best available and possible. Then we have to bet on the community hospital. Then we don't have to break up and privatize the services so that the wallet decides who gets, that we use those who are trained to work in health care, in the wrong way, in order to reach the most possible, and that there will be health insurance that determines whether you get ahead of the queue – all that the Progress Party stands for. It favors a few. It's not an offer for the many. That is why we want to strengthen the economy of hospitals. We will strengthen their ability to invest in medical devices and new treatments and ensure that we can now start to re-establish the backlog that has come through the pandemic. It's beginning to happen now in some hospitals, which can then begin to prioritise and treat people in line with the needs they have, where the pandemic now does not dominate as it did before.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e305	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e310	I'm not very impressed with the answer to the Prime Minister, and it might be tempting to ask if the Prime Minister could answer how he thinks this went. At least it is quite clear that the Prime Minister makes the concern for ideology heavier than helping ordinary people who can't afford to buy out of the health cows. The Prime Minister knows that he has good experience in using private health services, but most people do not have as good advice as him and cannot pay for the health services of their own pocket. It is therefore incredible that in a situation where more than 200,000 are in health cows that are growing longer, the government's message is that they want to restrict the offer to patients by removing the free choice of treatment. How many meters long do health cows have to be – or is it perhaps more correct to say how many kilometers long do health cows have to be – before the Prime Minister will put away the socialist ideological skyscrapers and actually use all the available private capacity that is there to bring down the health cows and avoid them being as long as when the Prime Minister was Minister for Health, or perhaps even longer?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e315	The representative asked how I thought my answer went. I think it went quite well. Thank you for asking. I think that if I had answered in a way that impressed the representative Hoksrud, I would be worried. Because if it was like my answer was to say that we are going to meet this challenge of taking money out of hospitals, putting them out and saying that here, private professionals can get out of hospitals and avoid priorities about who needs the most help, and who needs help first – then we have a completely different healthcare system. There are countries in the world that have it like this. They treat fewer, they have lower public health, shorter life expectancy and shorter survival after serious situations. Through our organisation of hospitals, we have been able to deliver some of the best services that are, to many, and that is the government's ambition to continue. It's going to be demanding because many hospital services are becoming more expensive. That's why we have to think about public health, and we have to think about health accessible to the many through a long life course. And in all of these areas, I think the representative and I are not going to impress each other with the answers, but I'm very sure that the answers we have are the ones we're going to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e322	Tina Bru – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e327	Many Norwegian families now experience a challenging situation with high electricity bills and rising prices. My concern is that this should go beyond the legitimacy of the green shift and put pressure on the payroll and thus the sustainability of the Norwegian industry. In order to compensate for the green shift, the government gave Solberg tax credits to people with normal incomes. When this government joined, it proposed, on the other hand, to increase the taxes on persons with incomes up to NOK 400000, compared to our proposal. We also see that SV is a strong driver of increased taxes, among other things. with tax increases already required in RNB. The Prime Minister himself has stressed that the green shift must be fair. I agree, but how will the government take care of this, when many now experience pressure on their private economy and taxes rising at the same time? Does the Prime Minister share my concern about the legitimacy of climate policy in this picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e332	I share the concerns about the legitimacy of climate policy, but I think it is about a wide range of issues other than what the representative was about now. I believe that our tax and tax arrangements and the way in which we make welfare services more reasonable and accessible to people have provided people with moderate and lower income relief – more in the wallet. It goes from commuter deductions to trade union deductions to cheaper ferries and a wide range of measures that take people in everyday life. The important thing about the green shift is that we're able to make the right choices to get the emissions down, without jeopardizing the security of people's lives. The government believes that we can do this by cutting emissions and creating jobs, investing in the new green industries – bet more strongly than you did before. Everything from batteries to sea wind, capture and storage and hydrogen are enormous opportunities for work in Norway. Then the loads resulting from the green shift must be distributed fairly, so that no individual groups or parts of the country are particularly affected. We can do that with a policy that takes those considerations into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e337	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e342	It is expensive for many people in Norway, with high electricity prices, notices of rising interest rates and now also strongly increasing daily food prices for a number of goods. And it's, as it always is, so that it goes hardest on the workers with modest incomes and people with small social security and pensions. Unlike some others, they cannot move to Switzerland when they are dissatisfied with the level of costs in Norway. In terms of the price increases in food, the media have gone through this part lately. The price increase is up to 70 pst. on some goods, and there is strikingly equal pricing in the large chains. I don't know if the Prime Minister is planning to buy Superchips for the weekend, for example, but in that case it has turned into 50 pst. more expensive, without the farmers who grow Norwegian potatoes being paid more for their product. It is well known that surveys show that Norway has some of the highest food prices in Europe, the worst samples and the most dissatisfied customers. For a long time, the theory of the desktop has been that it is due to Norwegian agricultural policy – high customs walls, state fees – but in 2020 a group of professors at the School of Commerce concluded that the explanation is quite different, namely the strong concentration of power among both suppliers and chains. The owners of the big chains are among the richest people in Norway. Three of the ten richest come from the food industry. In its time in government, the right-hand side received a food supply – a series of advice on how one could do something about power concentration, and do something about the bias in power between those who own the big chains on the one hand, and farmers, consumers and the workers in the shops on the other. They didn't do anything. Will this government do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e354	Without going into the preferences for chips – I stick to Sørlandschips for my part, but there are enough potatoes that have become more expensive – I can promise, joke aside, that I see this challenge in a wide range of areas and a wide range of markets. The claim that this is due to Norwegian agriculture is incorrect, as the representative quite rightly says. We have a productive agriculture. We have high productivity, higher than in many other parts of the economy, and what goes out of the Norwegian wallet for food has not increased over the years. On the contrary, it has been kept quite stable. I share the representative's concerns about what's going on in the market, and it's related to concentration, a few leading actors who can decide over large parts of the market. That's what we're working on, but we're busy looking at how it works against the organisation of the grocery market, what principles apply, and how the different parts of this value chain, from production to trade in the store, distribute income. This is the government's concern. I don't think there are simple grips that turn from one day to the other on power conditions, but here too, too, too much concentration of power is unfortunate. And then we're going to say that the situation we're experiencing now in terms of food prices, once again, is related to an international situation that has similarities to what we see on the energy side. There is a reference to, inter alia: Ukraine, which not only sells gas but also sells very important inputs to food, whether it's oil, food oil or grain. So at international level, rising food prices, which hit Norway but also hit developing countries, are at great risk of destabilising and creating difficult situations in terms of security policy. This is also part of the larger picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e363	It is quite right that there are a number of reasons for rising prices. What's the political challenge is to make sure that we don't end up in that situation with the big chains increasing their profits at the expense of everyone else. It has been, as I was in the past, a series of food meddlings in the last few years, and there are many concrete proposals. The three big chains now only control 97 pst. of the food market. We also see that there is a concentration of both wholesale, distribution and retail links, which are owned by the same few actors, so that one sits on all sides of the table. The aim here must be to provide less profit for super-rich owners, fairer pricing for consumers, and for farmers and workers to be left with more. In line with this, SV has proposed both to limit the share of the market that some can control, and to limit the possibility of producing cheese, transporting cheese and selling cheese. Is there anything the government will consider?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e370	It's very special to learn that food prices are now increasing, because they fell by 2 pst. last year. So it's once again saying how things can shift. But all the suggestions that the representative Lighthouse here is making, I think it's interesting to assess, and I think there's also something we can have good conversations about between the government and SV. Now we're going into an agricultural settlement, which is, of course, characterized by the fact that the farmer has experienced a sharp increase in some of his inputs covered by the agricultural agreement. The government has set up the farmer in this situation, and so will we when we sit down with the agricultural organizations. But the discussion about the market power and the organisation of the daily food industry, I think it is right that we follow all the way. Power concentration not good. It goes beyond the consumer's offer, even in terms of price.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e379	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e384	I think these are positive signals. Let me then go a little bit further to the concrete and what we can do. Because when it comes to power concentration, we see, for example. that the largest chain, the Norway Group, controls almost half of the groceries market. At the same time they own and control the dominant distributor. Without having to go into single examples now, the question of different forms of ownership constraints, that is, grip one can take political to split up an industry where very much power is collected on few hands, has been lifted several times. Is this, then, to consider fragmentation and ownership constraints, something the government is willing to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e391	I don't want to go into concrete measures – like that. There are some things we need to have when we're discussing this question. One is that we are careful not to take action that violates deliveries, security of supply and access to goods throughout the country. It's important to have with us. It is also important that we have dialogue with stakeholders so that political decisions are not taken that can have unintended consequences. These are issues that I think it is important that we follow along, and especially in a situation where food prices are increasing, as they are doing now. So we're open to looking at it, and have attention on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e396	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e401	One of the reasons why we have to rely on media comparisons and reports is that we really do not really have any insight into how prices in the food industry are going to be. This is because Coop, REMA and the Norway Group have received notice of huge overall fees for what the Competition Authority has considered to have been illegal price coordination. A prerequisite for doing something about this is to ensure full transparency in pricing, in addition to this with possible limitations that I was in place. Is the government willing to do the previous government not to take action to ensure real transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e406	I would like to comment on it by saying that I assume that the Competition Authority is doing its job. It is the authority body which has both the authority and the opportunity to follow up on such questions and to impose requirements. Whether there is a need to make changes to the right of access, I cannot take on a stand, but there will be something that the Competition Authority will have to share with the government and possibly collapse, whether there is a need to make changes to the laws and regulations in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e411	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e416	If we end the round of those who produce the food, there have recently been quite dramatic messages from farmers' organisations, from the peasant revolt, about how increased costs on the one hand and regulated prices of farmers' products on the other turn into the economy of many farms. It has been clearly described in the last few days how little of the total income for the bread we buy, which actually belongs to the farmer who has grown the grain. Another example was on the NRK yesterday and is linked to the cabbage root, where most of the work, including packaging and transportation, is paid for by the farmer, but there is a big difference between what the farmer gets and what the cabbage root is sold for in the store. What will the government do to secure the peasant a greater part of the value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e422	This is about the organisation of the food market in Norway, from farm to table, how the different values are distributed. It's a theme that we were dealing with instead, that we have to go into more thoroughly, and that we've also talked about in the Hurdal platform as a topic we're going to look at in more detail. The second question is related to the agricultural negotiations, i.e. how to facilitate value creation, income for the farmer. Then it's natural that it comes up as a theme there. This we are committed to following, and we are going to do so in both of those areas, both in terms of how the whole value chain is organised, and in terms of the negotiations with the agricultural organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e427	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e432	The Government Platform states: ‘A living local democracy is the foundation of the people’s rule and a prerequisite for the trust and legitimacy of the National People’s Government.’ In the last month, Oslo has shown us what a living local democracy is. When Stortinget dealt with Red's proposal to preserve Ullevål Hospital, almost all of the city council's parties were in Eidsvoll's place with posters saying "no to state regulation". Last week the streets were filled with people who went in torch for Ullevål hospitals. The Oslo rapporteur, Marianne Borgen, made an appeal and reminded us all of the good wording, which is also to be found in the government platform, that ‘the time for overrun of communities is over’. In Oslo, there is a large majority, both in the city council and in the population, to preserve and develop Ullevål hospitals. The City Council, with the Oslo Workers' Party at its head, has clearly stated that they will not have State overruns through a state regulatory plan. Biggers are selected from Oslo. He runs a government that gives signals that they are prepared to overrun the city and the majority of the city council with a state regulatory plan. My question is: Has the government started work on a state regulatory plan for the New OUS, and how does Støre think that the Hurdal platform's formulation that the time for overrun of local communities is over is being preserved in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e446	The government has not launched a state regulatory plan. Let me just start by saying that. So I want to go to another important chapter of the Hurdal platform, which is about ensuring people good health. It also states that, in the case of the hospital offer in Oslo, it is about following plans already adopted. This is a big question. There is a need to strengthen the hospital service in Oslo. It's a growing population, and we have to use the resources properly. It is a matter of national importance, in addition to the individual municipality, because the elections taken by Oslo in the field of hospital organisation have a bearing on how we use professionals, recruit professionals and use what is scarcely a resource. So the government is concerned – it is also detailed in our platform – that we should ensure that the entire population of Groruddalen is given local hospital services at Nye Aker Hospital as soon as possible. That work is in full swing, the hospital is being built. It's going to be a modern hospital with a big-city hospital guard, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo. We are to implement changes in the hospital structure in Oslo according to adopted plans. That there is discussion about the plans in Oslo, I have great respect for – we listen to that. But the decisions to strengthen hospital services in Oslo, for the people of Oslo, have been taken, and the work is in progress. It's doing a lot of work. All cancer treatment at Ullevål Hospital is moved to the Radium Hospital, which is under construction. Functions are moved to Aker Hospital, which is under construction. Laboratories are assigned to the new life science centre under construction. So it's a big change in the hospital structure. Then we suggest that we have good contact with the Municipality of Oslo and the planning authorities there. But for me, it is important to implement this in line with the plans. If we stop this now, there could be many years of postponement, and there could be a big setback for Oslo's population in terms of a safe and good hospital offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e459	It's not just a discussion, it's clear decisions in Oslo City Council against shutting down Ullevål, not least because the professionals agree that it will weaken the hospital supply for the future. The Oslo Workers' Party stated in the election campaign that they expect their own big bench to stand united by the decisions in the Oslo Workers' Party and by the city's inhabitants. But when the Stortinget voted against Red's proposal to preserve Ullevål Hospital in winter, both the Workers' Party and the Centre's large-scale groups voted against the Red's proposal. But then crystal clear decisions have been made, both from Oslo Arbeiderparti and Oslo Zenterparti, that they are against state regulation. My question is therefore whether the government intends to bind its large-scale groups to vote in line with Health South-East's decision on the closure of Ullevål Hospital, if there is any voting in Stortinget on a state regulatory plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e466	Red's proposal to preserve Ullevål Hospital leads to a follow-up question: what does that mean? What Ullevål Hospital is what he wants to preserve – what was, what is today, or is it what is going on? So it's like this in our country that it's not a local government that decides which hospital is going to be in the municipality. The state owns the hospitals and is responsible for our good hospital services throughout the country. The elections taken by Oslo are of great importance to the rest of the country. The head of the Oslo University Hospital says – I've heard him say it – that he has no problem attracting health professionals. And many of those who want to maintain the hospital structure in Oslo, imagine having a parallel hospital structure and an offer using health professionals, which is going to go out on other parts of the country. As Prime Minister, I have the responsibility to follow this – the offer in the Inland, in More and Romesdal, in Middle Norway and in North Norway. That's why it's what the government needs to do when we follow up a decision that's been going on for many years and that's about a big and complicated construction project with big investments to ensure Oslo and the rest of the country a good hospital offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e471	There will be follow-up questions – first the Bears of the Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e476	The question was whether the government would bind its large-scale groups to vote in line with the Health South-East decision to lay down Ullevål Hospital or not if there was a vote in Stortinget on a state regulation plan, and we have not received an answer to that. The Prime Minister will be happy to answer that next round. So it's like there's no help for people living in More and Romesdal, Middle Norway and North Norway about Ullevål hospitals being laid down. You don't get any more professionals out in the country by laying down Ullevål hospitals. The patient flow is what governs the number of employees, and we also know that Ullevål today educates many people who travel back to the country and are important for the hospital offer abroad. In addition, we know that the argument against closure is that you split the emergency environment on Ullevål in two and split it between Aker and Gaustad. That's why a group of professionals is very critical and very opposed to this plan. But so, will the government tie up its big groups in the matter, if there's going to be voting on this, or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e485	I think the representative knows how the Workers' Party's big-time group deals with matters, takes positions and then votes in line with the decision of the large-scale group. In a few very few examples, representatives are free to vote. This is not such a kind of case. So here, the Workers' Party will consider the issues that need to be raised in the follow-up to this decision, which has lasted for many years, has been adopted here and is planned and under development. If that decision comes, we'll deal with it in the usual way. And then it's not right, what the representative says, that the elections Oslo makes with regard to his hospital structure are completely irrelevant to the hospital offer in the rest of the country, and that it's the patient flow that decides. What is relevant is how we organise the hospital service, so that we can help many – all patients who need help – in a way that takes account of a scarce resource, namely the skilled. We see in many places in the country that there is a shortage of resources. We have set up a commission to look at the needs we have in health care. Of course, the way we organise the major hospitals in Oslo is important for how Norway uses the important resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e492	Bears Moxnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e497	I thank you for that clarification regarding the Workers' Party. The thing is that there is no real majority in the staging room to lay down Ullevål hospitals – it is not. The center party is the key here, so we'll see what the center party says when that time might come. What we want to preserve is the possibility of expanding Ullevål with new hospital buildings for the future on what is the largest hospital complex in Northern Europe. It's so crowded in Gaustad that you have to build hospitals in high blocks, on the popular mouth called the infected towers of Gaustad. There will be a continuous construction site on the Rikshospital for 10-20 years if the plan for Health South-East goes through, while on Ullevål the 110,000 m2 have very good hospital buildings per day. Something has to be disposed of, you can rebuild it while you have full operation – undisturbed – on the good parts of the hospital. That's what the majority of the city council is in favour of, and that's what the professionals want to preserve. Does Støre see that it can be as good a plan as building a hospital on a very narrow, small plot in Gaustad, which is what is inside the current plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e505	The representative and I can have opinions about what we can go to visit and look at plots. I assume that some of Norway's most experienced hospital planners, those we have given authority and confidence in assessing hospital development, have come to the conclusion that there are more square meters available to develop on Gaustad than it is on Ullevål, under the circumstances that are now. Ullevål Hospital is going to be operating for many years, and there is something Oslo Arbeiderparti has stressed that we are going to have. As to which solutions are chosen for Oslo’s further needs – we will also have new hospital needs beyond this project – we will see what the planning will entail. But as I said, over several years, this project has been planned, it's going on, there's hundreds of people working to implement it every day. Big sums are used to facilitate it. As I said in the Hurdals platform, we are going to implement changes in hospital structures according to agreed plans. We're not going to break them.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e510	Rauand Ismail – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e515	Non-binary health care is not provided if they want health care and gender-confirming treatment. In contrast to those with a binary gender identity – transhumance with a binary gender identity – you do not get the sex-confirming treatment you need if you have a non-binary sex identity. Now the government is working to introduce a third legal gender. I wonder whether the Prime Minister and the government as well as that will also ensure that those who then fall into that category get the necessary health care they should be entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e520	Follow-up questions shall follow the line of the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e525	That is an important question the representative asks. It creates the unrest and insecurity of a group that experience a lot of anxiety and insecurity in its normal life. As Minister of Health, I was concerned that we had to look at both the rules and the laws associated with this in order to make this less traumatic in very difficult elections, while at the same time ensuring that you get good advice on the choices you are making, so that you do not make irreparable choices that you might regret. We should continue this work in order to ensure – even within this part of our healthcare system – that we have the security of getting good offers for ourselves and our health within the ethical framework on which our health services are to be based. Now we're investigating the question of a third gender category, that's a topic we're going to go into and look at. It's an important part of the social debate. We also need to ensure that good care is provided both in the municipality where you live, in the primary health service, and in any hospital services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e532	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e537	In two weeks' time, the United Nations Climate Panel will launch its new interim report. We're all thinking about the previous report, which came 9 August last year and made a big commitment. Week after, on 16 August, the then Prime Minister’s candidate Jonas Gahr Støre said: ‘The climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time. This is going to shape my entire Prime Minister's rule if Ap wins the election." He also said that he would “count climate emissions as accurately as the crowns and ears of the state budget”. The Prime Minister’s candidate was Prime Minister and was delighted to present a government budget before Christmas. There was an increase in greenhouse gas emissions, not lower — almost two million tonnes more CO2 emissions than the budget of the civil government. And it's not just me that says, it was confirmed by Støre's own climate and environment minister. He simply followed the call to count greenhouse gas emissions as accurately as crowns and ears and concluded that emissions would rise – a clear breach of the current climate plan. The answer to Støre has been that they should quickly prepare a new climate plan. One has to ask what government should do with a new climate plan when they do not follow the current climate plan. The climate crisis was supposed to affect the entire prime minister's rule, said Støre. Now, it's probably hardly that thing right now, but I can't actually come up with any climate news from this government because she joined four months ago – except in the last week, when they presented a sea wind bet that was half the expansion of the civil government. By saying no to hybrid cables, a lucrative project made a very expensive one, and it's quite well done. It's demanding enough to make the wretched climate projects profitable. The question is then: If the climate battle were to affect the entire Prime Minister's rule of Støre, what kind of mark was it really he intended to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e553	Now the representative Rotevatn did not learn how his proposal to the State budget would have had it in Stortinget if he had been allowed to continue in government, and he would sit down with the Advance Party and find a solution. We have found a solution that runs towards NOK 2 000 in the CO 2 tax. It's going to have half an entry with respect to the petrol pump, but it happens in a way that makes us get people with us on what's a green shift. It's important – if we get them against us, it won't be possible to do the work. The Minister for Climate and Environment sitting in this room is a driving force for us to present a broad and ambitious climate plan to show us the way to 2030. Then it is completely wrong – but as you listen, you hear, and as you see, you see – that this government has not initiated climate policy. We've been sitting for four months, and the news last week about sea wind was at least that things are happening on our guard. It's not half of the ambition either. It's going to be the same number of megawatts out of the South North Sea. But we're going to make sure that parts of that force come to Norway, and then we're going to figure out what it might be like to connect to a North Sea network for the remaining 1,500 megawatts. We're also going to go to Utsira, and the NVE has been assigned to explore areas along the entire Norwegian coast to continue to bet on sea winds. We have a Minister of Industry who is in charge of the work on the green business policy and the green shift, and who travels around to businesses. We focus on battery, on hydrogen, on capture and storage and on green shipping to get the ambitions up. In a wide range of areas, work needs to be started to produce results over time. We're going to 2030 and then we're going to net zero in 2050, and what we've done in four months, I think I'm pretty good at the eight years the representative sat in or was surrounded by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e567	The government has justly weighed the entry requirement for mathematics for teacher training, but I think one with the grade 3 will also see that going from 3,000 MW to 1500 MW is a halve. I also think one will be able to assume that if one retains the same target for CO 2 tax, but halves the pace there, one does not come to a goal at the same time. That's the problem. In addition, I would like to challenge an arrow on climate policy that the Prime Minister has not talked so much about, but that is very important, and it is about nature and land degradation. There is now quite a bad place for Norway. We're estimated to be able to get a net emission of 27 million. tonnes from that sector. It was before the Workers' Party and the Center's party decided to remove the ban on the re-cultivation of bogs and to introduce a government platform to increase land degradation and more power to the municipalities to build up green land. Then there's a new math question: Has the government calculated, in the same way that they calculate in the context of a government budget, how much emissions will increase when one now removes the ban on the cultivation of bogs and adds a more degressive land policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e579	I don't know what the representative had in math, but for me it's like 3,000 MW is 3,000 MW, and you take the first 1,500 and they clear up the next 1,500. So 1,500 plus 1,500 is 3,000. So if the representative comes to another number, if you add 1,500 to 1,500 and you get 1,500, he's going to have less than the grade 3 in math, so he should do something about it. This government is committed to achieving its climate objectives also related to land and moor. But we're concerned that we're going to use our nature in a proper way. We think a decision on protection, that is, no activity that beats everything in the same category, is not the right answer. But it is quite right, as the representative says, also in this area, that in all areas of the economy where the Minister for Climate Change is concerned, we need to look at the potential for cutbacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e586	There will be follow-up questions – first Sveinung Rotevatern.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e592	It's probably a little late for this representative to do something about his math character, but I can assure him that he would have come into the teacher's ball, both before and now. The problem is that when you plot to build 1500 MW now, without the possibility of hybrid cables and most likely get a wretched project, you think you can subsidize it. When you do not want to clarify the framework conditions for the next 1500 MW – whether or not it will be possible to export – you know nothing. That's the problem that the actors are now facing. The result is a challenge. And the answer about land policy doesn't make me safe. We're at a net emission of 27 million. tonnes. So it's not a good enough answer that the Prime Minister says we have to use our nature in a reasonable way. One must use an ant, drain it and release mass CO2 and methane. It's used, but it's not climate policy. It's Central Party policy, and it was Labour Party policy during the previous period, and now it's government policy. How, then, should one come to terms with the climate measures we now have? That's what the Storting needs from the Prime Minister, and that answer didn't come now either, but he can get to try one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e604	We are concerned that we should protect ants and not build in ants. We are concerned that decisions should be taken at a level that opens up where it should not lead to emissions, to develop nature and exploit nature where it is. Using the land we've been using has been Norway's tradition both at sea and at land. So I repeat that this area is one of several areas where we have to cut. It must be part of a climate plan that both binds the state and provides leadership for municipalities, and that will be seen in the plan that the government will put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e611	Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e616	When the government promised an enhanced climate target, there were enough people who expected that policies would then be put in place that are close to achieving this goal. For the time being, the government has only submitted a budget cutting CO 2 emissions less than the Solberg government budget, and a sea wind bet has been presented that has been scaled down and at least pushed out in time. In the meantime, we have the Hurdals platform where it says that the government will rapidly develop a new climate plan for the whole economy. The right agrees that climate policy should be clarified quickly, but the speed at which it comes depends on the processes being set in motion. My question to the Prime Minister is this: Will the government now take on the knowledge base Climate Change 2030 when they are about to prepare this climate plan, or will they ask underlying agencies to start a new knowledge base? In this case, have the underlying agencies been asked to start that work already?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e624	This isn't mathematical, but the definition of fast is interesting, from a government that set for eight years. When did it come to the climate plan? Was it after four months? Was it after two years, three years, four years? It took time. I can confirm that the knowledge material that is in the Klimakur course will be included. Then, of course, we'll go out and update it with the underlying agencies, so we have an up-to-date knowledge base when we're going to make our plan. But I think we have good margins to go on when it comes to being out quickly, and in addition, we are now – as I said in my previous answer – implementing a policy in a wide range of areas to transform the course so that we can create jobs and cut emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e631	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e636	Today, the SSB came with very happy national accounts figures. They say that through 2021 we have picked up the decline that has been through the pandemic, and the economy has simply come back where it should be. We already know, from the numbers last autumn, that fortunately we've managed to get more people employed than we had before the pandemic. In other words, it goes very well in the Norwegian economy. The SSB writes that the enormous growth in energy prices has given the state huge revenues and a GDP growth of over 20 pst. Oil and gas export revenues have increased enormously from 2020 to 2021, over 500 billion. kr in increased income. It's good for the state. However, the SSB also writes that a new move in 2021 was that the international prices of energy were reflected in the Norwegian electricity price. It has also given the state several tens of billions of extra income, both for 2021 and we know not least for 2022. Many households notice, on the contrary, that the economy is becoming more demanding, that the electricity bill is unfortunately too large. The same thing also marks volunteering, and I have a few local examples. For November and December, a Southfired leisure club experienced an increase of DKR 140 000. With the support of the government – the Center Party – with the support of SV, they will get NOK 30 000 back. I Grane has an extra NOK 110 000. Risøy Folkehochschule, which I have visited, gets no power support. In November and December, they have increased costs of NOK 430000. I could still do that. Why is it that when the state gets such huge revenues, and one sees that there are so many others who are struggling, the government won't support, for example. The Christian People's Party's proposal for a maximum price of 50 cents, which would have hit everyone, and given much better compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e647	After all, the country has used these large incomes to bring up a insurance scheme to provide relief for families and households. It is a comprehensive scheme that costs billions of dollars and covers 80 pst. by the flow calculation of what is more than 70 ø/kWh at spot price. You can now see from the invoice that you have received a more reasonable electricity bill, which is already high enough. It's high too after, I admit it, but there's been a significant help in it. Then it's not that these revenues that come to Norway through energy do not benefit the community. It gives us the opportunity to build both reserves for difficult times, to strengthen a government budget that allows us to have an active welfare state, and to be able to put under a pandemic to help people, organisations and businesses get through the pandemic and deliver the results that the representative correctly points to, and to which the Central Statistical Office now refers. Norway is one of the countries that comes out of the pandemic at the highest speed. Now it's important to control that speed so it doesn't affect the economy in the next round by getting too severe a price and cost pressure. Then we've set up for sport and volunteering, I want to say it. Municipalities can now follow-up sports facilities in particularly difficult situations. I do not believe that the maximum price is a good idea to meet the power users' needs over time. It will intervene in the way we get power into the market. Power is produced by 1682 hydropower plants in Norway and should not be regulated by a maximum price. There should be supply and demand, and then, as a welfare state, we must ensure that we can socially care for those who become vulnerable and vulnerable, as we have done through insurance schemes and a number of other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e658	The Prime Minister calls it a guarantee scheme, I want to call it a patchwork scheme in many ways, because there's been a proposition after the announcement to the Storting because I think the government sees that one doesn't hit. And there's some purpose one wants to hit. The problem is that there are many ideal actors, from child protection to hospitals, etc. – I gave an example of a folk high school, which is really an ideal institution – that is struggling with the high power prices. This also applies to small enterprises and households. That is why I agree with what the Prime Minister says in the end: this is about social distribution. And there I mean the government just doesn't do it well enough now. NVE, the government's department, has announced a high electricity price over a long period of time. Prime Minister Støre himself has said that then you can be willing to extend the scheme, and that is good, but the scheme is not good enough, because it does not meet well enough. My example is Sørli leisure club, which gets NOK 140 000 more in electricity costs only for November and December, almost NOK 200000. One must sell – at the head – 5000 to 6000 waffles with a good profit only to cover the bill, and that should not be the case. Why doesn't one want to do more for the volunteer? Why would someone let them take the bill instead of the state making the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e667	I think we'll always get there that there'll be groups that can feel that they're being hit by the rise in prices. Now we have the energy prices that are high. That's what we've been dealing with. So it's not a patchwork, it's following evolution. We have reduced the electricity charge, a majority here in Stortinget have increased housing support, we have increased social assistance for those who are most affected, we have increased support for the students, we have increased support for housing construction and given billions of dollars to households. It's following developments and responding when it comes. It's not a patchwork, it's answering in the areas where the challenges are. We have also supported sport and volunteering through the municipalities. But I think we'll never get there that the state can be the guarantor of any increased expenditure. Expenditure goes up and down, and organisations and businesses, as well as households, have to take a certain amount of money and plan for it. Compared to other countries, Norway and the Stortinge now provide people with amounts far beyond what you see elsewhere. And then I said, if these high prices persist, of course we'll follow closely and be there for people. If this comes back again the next autumn and winter, we now have several tools that we know, and that we can use again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e674	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e680	I agree with the Prime Minister that the state cannot be there for everyone, always. That is not possible, and that is why I will give tribute to parts of what has come. I am particularly pleased with increased housing and social assistance, which will reach many of those who need it the most. But what I don't understand is, we can accept that someone doesn't want to give support to businesses, and that they have to tolerate this, etc., but volunteering is in a completely different situation. Here in the city there is a school, St. Sunniva, which has an increased electricity bill of over 600,000 kroner. Voluntary organisations do not have this capital. I also know that part of the sports clubs, which uses a different type of heating, e.g. gas, not included. Clubs in this city have announced increased quotas. It hits children and young people, while the state incurs billions. I believe that the situation is exceptional. It also admits the government when one comes with this aid scheme, but it does not hit well enough. What is the background to the fact that the Norwegian Church, National Colleges or various organisations that have an ideal purpose, which does not earn one penny but which only facilitates children and young people, should not be included?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e687	There are a wide range of schemes that now make different groups. The main emphasis is placed on households, i.e. the families, who experience this in the family budget. There are now also schemes via municipalities, which Stortinget has treated quite recently, which make it possible to follow-up, for example. a sports facility that risks having to shut down the football business because they are unable to keep track in turn. Then I'm going to be aware that there are some people who will feel that they are still exposed, and that it is demanding and difficult. It's an extraordinary situation we're in, and then we get experience of how these systems work. We have placed great emphasis on schemes to follow-up especially families, which are the starting point of the individual economy, and agriculture and the greenhouse sector, which have particularly high electricity costs, and also the voluntary nature and sport of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e694	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e699	The EU wants to introduce carbon duty, the aim of which is to prevent companies from moving out of Europe to countries with lower carbon prices and less ambitious climate policies. The inclusion of Norway in the EU carbon duty system is an important issue, but also how to set up the carbon duty system. An important issue for Norwegian enterprises will be the CO 2 compensation scheme, which is very important for Norwegian industry. On 29 November, the Council of State, Barth Eide, said to the European Committee that the debate on carbon duty is ‘a discussion we need to be heavy inside’, and that ‘the discussion is now taking place’. However, this week's Business this week we could read that Norway is not heavy within this discussion now, because the departments disagree about carbon duty is EEA-relevant or not. The Prime Minister will soon travel to Brussels to meet decision-makers and attend seminars on green industry. The question to the Prime Minister will be: What will the Prime Minister say to Europe about what are Norwegian positions in the question of carbon duty? Is this a scheme that we're covered by? What consequences will the CO 2 compensation scheme have for Norwegian industry, and in what way will the Prime Minister involve Stortinget in Norwegian positions in a system so important to so many, both workers and businesses around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e712	This is a very important issue, and it is important because the policy is in shape in Europe. The ‘Fit for 55’ plan, in which they will set out a broad policy area to achieve the 55 pst targets. Norway should be in partnership with the EU on this issue. The reason why I am going to Brussels with a very broad agenda is that we want to highlight that Norway can contribute to this. We will implement our commitments in cooperation with the EU. Then this is one of the questions that is for discussion. Let me just say that whether it's EEA-relevant or not, it's important to have a thorough investigation of, so we're safe on it, but it's important anyway, because it's about how our most important market behaves in relation to the world around it. That is why one of the issues we want to discuss with members of the European Commission and the President of the European Commission, is going to go into what you see in this area, whether this is going to be the way of the future to deal with the issue, whether products produced with high carbon 2 images can come from somewhere else and that can get a clear way in. We are committed to ringing around the CO 2 compensation scheme until another system has to be put in place to meet the same needs. I think I have to say that we cannot today conclude on just how it will develop – but we have a high level of readiness to follow that is the question, the CO 2 compensation scheme, which is important for Norwegian industry, it is very expensive for the community, but it is important – and whether the new schemes currently being discussed can over time become new schemes that may also be relevant to Norway. I believe that a message for Norway will then be that, with our close connection to the European market – we are dealing more with the European market than many EU countries – it is natural to see very close cooperation on this issue. The European Commission will be hearing from me next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e728	The Prime Minister refers to this frontier tariff as a way of dealing with these issues in terms of carbon leakage, but the reality is that the EU has decided. They're going for a carbon toll. Now the question is, how is it to be arranged? The issue of EEA relevance is important, and as early as November, State Council Barth Eide concluded that the border tariff will not hit us, because we are within the ETS – the EU quota system. In other words, Barth Eide confirmed that it was EEA-relevant. But then we read in the paper this week that this discussion is still going on, while the EU is now shaping its positions on how the details of this scheme will be. And it is in the details that the interests of Norwegian companies lie. The question is: Tok Barth Eide's mouth too full in November, when he said that this question was really settled, that it is EEA-relevant? Or is there still an ongoing dialogue between the ministries as to whether this carbon duty is relevant to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e737	This is an ongoing debate. Councillor Barth Eide was quite right in what he said. We're part of a quota system, we're dealing with Europe, we have the same rules, and it's clear that this is also part of that whole. But that's what the representative says: how the details are designed is what's important to us. That's what we need to have dialogue about to watch. It can be assumed that as usual we are dealing with Europe, as integrated as our industry is, we find solutions that match the main track that the EU has to choose, but there are also aspects of Norwegian industrial production, Norwegian power generation, which means that we have to look very carefully at it. We have e.g. held the debate on proof of origin and so on, which is seen as problematic in parts of the Norwegian industry. One of the topics useful to discuss, as one does at the professional level between professional authorities, but also at the political level, and also with me, is getting more insight into and understanding about these details. And then I would say, of course, the Storting will be kept constantly informed about those discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e742	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e747	I am absolutely sure that the Ministry of Finance's office will follow the questionnaire and note that the issue of whether it is EEA-relevant has now been clarified by the Prime Minister, and it is good to confirm it this way. The question to the Prime Minister, when we agree that the details are important, is: How should the government anchor Norwegian positions in the Stortinget? This is of major importance for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian jobs and has a significant impact on value creation in Norway in the years to come, and the Prime Minister represents a minority government dependent on support in Stortinget. So the question is, how will it be anchored in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e754	It sounds boring, but I want to respond appropriately: if these are matters that are budget-relevant, there will be budgetary communication. If there is a change in laws, of course it belongs in the Stortinget. However, it also belongs to the body to which the representative referred, where we have a rather ongoing dialogue on issues that take place between Norway and the EU, in the European Committee and in other ways. But it's wise to keep the Storting informed about this, because it has great significance for many areas. As with the taxonomy developed by the EU, with which the representative’s government intervened – they were not always the same on the ball there in relation to the deadlines. We focus on having good contact and will ensure that Storting gets the information it needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e759	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e773	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directly responsible. Question 4, from the representative, Mr Elvenes, to the Minister for Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Turid Kristensen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Security, who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, who is suffering from disease. Questions 12 and 13 from the representatives Sigbjørn Framnes and Silje Hemdal, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has a history of disease. The questions are proposed, at the request of the Minister of Industry, moved and answered before question 29, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 13, from the representative Silje Hemdal, will be raised by the representative Helge André Njåstad. Questions 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, from the representatives of Terje Halleland, Roy Steffensen, Morten Stordalen, Tor André Johnsen, Erlend Svardal Bøe, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Mona Fagerås respectively to the Minister for Transport, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e795	This issue has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e800	One can discuss who is right, but the climate and environment minister is good at answering questions to everyone, I notice, so I'm sure it's going well. The question is as follows: ‘In Fördefjorden several million tonnes of mining waste and chemicals have been authorised. This is an important spawning area for coastal cod, but also farming. Seafood Norway and Norway’s Fiskarlag have stated: ‘The lack of an adequate investigation into the risks related to food safety, fish health and fish welfare is a fundamental defect in the application, which in itself suggests that no operational concession or emission permit should be granted.’ Why does the government give priority to maritime food?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e809	This decade we're going to develop new green industries, both on land and at sea, and we're going to do it at the same time as we take care of vulnerable ecosystems. That's why it's more important than ever to see things in context and make sure that all the decisions we make are based on solid knowledge. The permits granted to the Nordic Rutile project in Fördefjorden are based on a comprehensive knowledge base. In fact, the knowledge base in this case indicates that the maritime landfill will not have a negative environmental impact on the coastal cod spawning area or on the farming industry. In line with the Pollution Act, where the main principle is that pollution is prohibited and where exemptions are made, both disadvantages and benefits of measures are assessed before any authorisation is granted. Environmental considerations shall be burdensome in land management at sea as well as on land. It is therefore essential that in every case where the pollution law permits landfills in mining operations, a thorough and specific assessment has been made for each case, and this is the case here. On the basis of the knowledge acquired, both the environmental impacts of sea landfill and the need for food safety have been assessed before authorisation was granted. The dissemination of mineral particles, mineral composition and chemical properties has been carefully evaluated. The Environment Directorate will closely monitor the operation of mines. The authorisation granted also imposes strict reporting, emission control and en-route environmental monitoring requirements. In line with the permit, the company shall establish a monitoring programme to be submitted to the Environment Directorate in good time before mining starts. Some of the proposals for this programme have been finalised and submitted to the Scientific Committees on Food Safety, Fish Health and Fish Welfare, the Food Authority, the Directorate-General for Fisheries and the Institute for Marine Research, which have made comments on the programme. Environmental monitoring is subject to conditions both before, during and after operation of the landfill. This is just an example of the kind of balance we're going to have to do more of. On the one hand, it is absolutely necessary to generate minerals for the green shift. It requires mining. We cannot let everything happen in the middle of Africa, under much more demanding conditions, both for workers and for the environment. At the same time, both mining and waste disposal must be minimised. These balances need to be improved when we are going to count both on climate emissions and on natural accounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e822	I thank you for your answer. I fully agree that there must be balances, and that we should conduct mineral extraction in Norway, but when the Fördefjord case has become so controversial, it is precisely because the local resistance in the Wevring and Sunnfjord areas is so strong, and that the interventions in nature and the local environment will be very large. After the project was started, and permits were granted, an alternative project has been launched to show that it is possible to extract minerals from the Engebøjellet in a much more sustainable way. And it's a challenge for the climate and environment minister, not only passively accept that this is a permit, because when the assumptions change, there's also an opportunity to look at permits again. I believe that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment agrees that the authorities must constantly pursue the most sustainable, most gentle way of extracting minerals – and so there is an alternative here.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e837	I agree. It is important to ensure that the best available knowledge and technology is constantly used — whether for the extraction itself or for the landfill. Some extraction must be, some disposal must be, but it is embedded in the permit and the existing agreement to try to reduce the amount of waste as much as possible, so if it becomes possible, with alternatives to at least parts of the deposit, i.e. in its own mine, it will always apply. The best possible standard should be monitored on an ongoing basis. But I have not seen any basis in this case for this permission to be withdrawn. The important thing is that you have a follow-up in line with the plans that have been given and that have been part of the prerequisite for granting the permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e842	After the emission permit has been granted, changes to what is to be emitted have also been notified by Nordic Mining. It implies that potentially more harmful chemicals are also to be released into fjords without proper investigation. And as we've been through, in the spring there are both breeding and spawning areas. It has also, among other things, by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, have been warned of this project. Seafood Norway and the Fiskarlag are asking for assurances that the substance SIBX does not accumulate in the food chain and therefore would not pose a threat to maritime food safety. Can the Council of State actually give them the assurances, if any, that he will enter into it specifically?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e849	I will then again show that it has been decided in connection with this case that there should be a monitoring programme. It's under construction. The central authorities involved in its preparation or input into it are the Food Authority, the Fisheries Directorate and the Marine Research Institute, precisely because much of its competence is there. A continuous evaluation of compliance with the authorisations granted shall be carried out. Here, as usual, it will always be a prerequisite for the best available technology, that you always use the highest possible standard for what you're doing. But at the same time we have to admit that not least the green shift actually leads to that we have to use more minerals. Even in a circular economy, where we're going to reuse them, we have to produce them first, and we need a lot more than we have today, and then we need mining. I believe that it is right to operate mining in Norway, and that we can actually set a high standard, both for the extraction part itself and for the landfill part. And there we have to follow continuously along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e859	«At the Noradconference on 25 January this year, the Minister for Development announced a strong commitment to food security from the government in the future. But she didn't realize what the stake would be. Can the Council of State explain this a little further?’ And the Council of State is welcomed back to the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e868	I thank you for the nice greeting, and I thank the representative for the opportunity to explain to you what I am most passionate about, and which I believe the world needs most: proper and nutritious food. It's not just man's most basic need. It is also essential to build more debilitating societies and to create the necessary ring-effects to achieve other key objectives. When hunger increases in the world, as we see now, it is very different that is also affected. Business is hit. We do not initiate the value chains that are needed to create activity, health, viable communities that create their own growth – from below. Today, 811 million people are starving. Nearly 270 million are on the brink of famine. So we know that in Africa south of the Sahara operates more than 70 pst. by the population of agriculture and fisheries. These small scale producers represent 80 pst. of all food consumed in developing countries. Yet, many starve. Our development policy should help them produce more and healthier food themselves, in a climate-smart and climate-resilient way – food that finds its way to local markets. Short-term food is more sustainable and is a crucial part of the solution. We have increased the food security, fish and agriculture budget by 500 million. And this is just the beginning. We have just concluded an agreement of 45 million. kr to strengthen small scale aquaculture in Tanzania, Kenya and Mozambique. We will increase core support for the International Agricultural Fund for Agricultural Development, a UN organisation that achieves good results in efforts to strengthen small farmers and value chains in vulnerable countries. We need to reconcile climate and development policies, strengthen the commitment to renewable energy, double support for climate change and at least triple support for climate adaptation. Lives live locally. When more than 70 pst. Of the world's poor living in rural areas, there is a need to invest resources to contribute to change and results. Through our partners, not least in civil society, we will support those who work for changes in attitudes and increased access to services in local communities. Only through such a forward-looking development policy can extreme poverty be eradicated and sustainability objectives achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e883	The Development Minister has been talking about food security for a while. At the same time, the government has implemented the core allocations for the World Food Programme, abbreviated WFP. This is a multinational UN actor who has good access to the areas where we want to help. How is the food programme to be included in the notified food security strategy that the government intends to submit?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e888	The World Food Programme is a key and essential partner in government support for food security. We therefore concluded an agreement in December to secure WFP 1.6 billion. kr in core support over the next four years. In addition to core support, the WFP is allocated significant contributions related to humanitarian response in the country affected by humanitarian crises. I would also like to stress that the WFP is important as a humanitarian player, but is also becoming increasingly important in the long-term solutions to ensure food security in the areas where they work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e895	In connection with the announcement of the strategy that came on 25 January, the Council of State stated: ‘Food in the stomach helps kids learn better at school’. To me, something's creeping. First, the government cuts in contributions to Norwegian education aid, i.e. to the school. The government also cuts into the food program. At the same time, the Council of State speaks of ‘food in the stomach’ as a means of achieving better education. Does the Council of State see these signals as confusing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e905	I'm going with joy to clarify the confusion. Through various actors in the education sector and in the food sector, school food programmes are an area in which we go in with increased effort over time, precisely with the same reason that I have been in the past: without food in the stomach, the children learn little. Then I will also clarify the misunderstanding that the government is depriving the world's food program. The proposed level of 400 million. SEK in core aid for 2022 represents an increase of 100 million. kr from 2020 level.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e915	‘Norad recently presented a report on how assistance can mobilise private investment in developing countries in order to achieve sustainability objectives. One of the main findings of the report is that the opportunities for profitable, sustainable investment in developing countries are in the thousand-billion-dollar class, but are largely untapped. How does the government evaluate the findings of this report?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e922	The path out of poverty goes through sustainable economic growth – I am sure that the representative and I are in complete agreement. We're going to use business support to build local value chains: local production, local preparedness, local jobs, community building from below, and also business development. Increased private investment is essential for creating that growth, and Norfund is our main tool in this work. Through equity, loans and guarantees Norfund helps to reduce the risk to other investors. The new climate investment fund, managed by Norfund, will make an annual contribution of 1 billion. kr from the treasury, matched by the corresponding amount of Norfund’s surplus capital, could trigger the multiple capital of commercial operators. This will be a very important contribution to reducing emissions and job creation. Norad's report, to which the representative Schou refers, is an important reminder that we must bring with us the private sector if we are to succeed in achieving the sustainability goals. The report shows that we need to work on a wide range of instruments, from political and regulatory framework conditions to technical and financial ones. The Government is therefore committed to further developing risk mitigation measures, such as the guarantee and operating aid scheme. The framework conditions for renewable energy also need to be put in place to allow serious actors to get on the road. Much of what we fund through multilateral channels is going to promote just this. Risk reduction measures are particularly important where investment is most needed — in the so-called MUL countries, the least developed countries. We recently concluded an agreement with the World Bank’s Guarantee Institute – MIGA – on renewable energy, in particular targeting these poorest countries. Through knowledge programmes such as the Tax on Development, we contribute to strengthening the competence and capacity of authorities to facilitate more predictable investor framework conditions. Poor people most live in rural areas. According to the World Bank, spending on food-producing sectors is two to three times more effective than on other measures to combat poverty. Food producers in the world are, as the representative knows, part of the private sector. Increased agricultural investment is essential to succeed in the fight against hunger and poverty and increase job creation. Norway is part of the public-private cooperation Farm to Market Alliance together with, among others. Yara, Rabo Bank and the World Food Program. This alliance contributes to thousands of small-scale farmers having both access to markets and predictable incomes. This is smart assistance that helps trigger the huge funds for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e941	The aim of development policy should be to ensure sustainable growth. A good way to achieve this is to ensure — as the Council of State just stresses — that private investment is mobilised. It is not surprising that the Norad report shows that this potential is heavily untapped. Will these findings affect how the government is setting up its development policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e946	I agree with the representative Schous' analysis of this matter, and there are many exciting proposals in Norad's report that can inspire us to look at how we can ensure increased capital flows to developing countries. It's a cross of thought that less than 5 pst. of global private capital currently invested in developing countries. I believe that the rapidity of the aid is to reduce the risk of private capital entering this type of country. I have therefore commissioned Norad to look at possible measures to mobilise increased private capital to meet the sustainability targets in this year's letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e951	One of the first governments in the field of development was to enter into budgetary unity with the Socialist Left Party. Among the consensus reached, there was a strong tax cut for development and cut in business development and trade, 50 million respectively. NOK 100 million. kr i k cut. These priorities are contrary to the findings of Norad. Does the Council of State also see this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e956	I can assure the representative that creating safe, decent and green jobs is one of the most important things that the government wants to contribute to development policy. But I must stress that this effort does not go beyond just one budget line. On the contrary, this includes, inter alia: support through the development banks, through the IFC – i.e. the private sector arm of the World Bank Group – as well as a wide range of fields of action on climate, sea, renewable energy and vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e970	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e978	‘Norway is one of the few countries that permits sea landfill and has several active sea landfills. A maritime landfill can lead to serious contamination of the fjord environment, damage to fish, animals and plants and pose a threat to other businesses. The alternative to maritime landfill is to require better resource use and refilling. Will the government be in the front line and put in place a ban on maritime landfill?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e985	It is quite right, as the representative says, that there are few countries that have landfills at sea and in fjords. Then there are also few countries that have the same topography as Norway, with deep fjords that are actually suitable for landfilling, better than a number of other comparable areas. Both landfills in sea and landfills on land have environmental consequences, and we cannot, in fact, establish on a general basis that landfills on land are always better than landfills in the sea. In some cases it is the opposite, and each case has to be assessed in concrete terms. This is an important example of why we need to have a solid, evidence-based knowledge base before creating stencil rules that may not be consistent in the case to which they apply. Based on a comprehensive knowledge base, the environmental impact of maritime landfills is carefully assessed before authorisation. As part of the pre-authorisation assessments, the options for sea deposition of tailings are considered. All those engaged in mining operations are required to prepare a waste management plan, which I was also involved in a previous response, and must describe in this plan the alternative use of the masses and the possibility of refilling masses in the mine. The holding shall continuously work to reduce the need for landfilling and the waste management plan shall be kept up-to-date and regularly reviewed. As you can see, it's already embedded that you have to consider how much you can put back in the mine, where it's appropriate. Many environmental technologies use metals, and access to mineral raw materials is a prerequisite for success in the green shift. Among other things, many minerals are needed for increased electrification of the transport sector, and more and more of these minerals are needed. For example, an electric car needs three times as much copper as a conventional car. Environmentally strict regulation of mining can thus contribute to the establishment of a sustainable society, and the materials in turn can contribute to technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In any assessment of mining and possible landfill, we need to make a thorough and concrete assessment in which different possible solutions are weighed against each other. It will also apply to the assessment of any new mining project in Norway. By means of a permit, we can provide a good framework for the operation, with emission requirements, continuous environmental monitoring, emission control and reporting, while at the same time monitoring the operation at mines will be closely monitored by the Environment Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e996	I thank you for the answer, and it's not land deposit that needs to be the alternative to sea landfill. It is, as the Council of State was in it, refilling the mine or other use of resources. For maritime landfills, not only is the polluter of life in our fjords, it is also bad resource use. The mine mass as companies, e.g. in the Fördefjord, will dump in the sea, can be used for a bit of each, and there are many examples of it internationally. However, the problem in Norway today is that unfortunately it is both permitted and cheaper to dump these resources in the spring. What we have learned over many decades of industrial development in Norway is that demands from the public can lead to innovations. So isn't the demand for the re-use of mines more in line with government's ambitions of a circular economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1001	Well, to the most extent, and it's important that all resources are used again. That is why it is very important that this waste management plan should continuously assess other ways, i.e. re-use or landfilling, and at all events reduce the amount of waste. It's embedded in the permit, and here, as I said in my reply to the representative Lightbaking recently, we'll keep up with the fact that you're actually delivering on it, in line with what's best available technology. This technology will evolve over time. I'm a big fan of a radical policy for more circular economy, but I've probably taken on board that we're not going to be able to circulate absolutely everything, so some landfill will still be needed, both because there's no alternative use, and because there are some substances you really don't want to recycle. That's why you also need landfill, and it has to happen either on land or in the sea. We can't send it out into space. So there's going to be a need for landfill, and then you have to pick the least harmful.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1008	I thank you again for the answer. Among other things, the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea has been quite clear, particularly for the projects concerned with maritime landfill in Norway, that it is at least not a good way to deposit the remaining masses. But I'd like to put the question a little bit into perspective. My fjord is Oslofjord. It is a fjord that creates life base and open-air life for almost two million people living around the fjord. So after many decades of environmental sins and pollution, we're probably going to have to mobilise hundreds of millions of dollars to clean and save the fjord before it's too late. For the Oslo Earth is dying of pollution that suffocates the life of the fjord. It's a massive problem, all of which are agreed on, and the Council of State has also expressed its opinion on it. Then it's a pretty striking contrast that in 2022 we can at the same time be giving permission to what will be nothing but a form of active death aid for a completely different fjord. Doesn't the Council of State think it's a cross of thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1015	It would be a great cross of thought if that were right, but the Environment Directorate's assessment, summarizing the professional input we're getting, says that that's not right, and that a lot of the status of fjord is restored after a number of years in terms of landfilling mining waste. Especially in the time we live in now, it's so important that we let facts have power and actually relate to what is the professional council, whether we don't like it. This will be the case for both the representative of the Supreme Court and me sometimes so that we would like the professional council to be different. But this is in line with the professional advice we've been given. Otherwise, I fully share my commitment to the Oslo soil and remind you that it is not mining landfill that is the problem in the Oslo soil, but that we get a lot of nitrogen run-off from agriculture, that we have too bad sewage treatment, and that we still allow people to get septic in the fjord. It's present-day activity that ordinary people have in mind, and we have to intervene and reduce. But that's a slightly different problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1025	‘In order to be allowed to contaminate it must be ‘necessary’. The Nordic Rutile pollution permit was granted in 2015. Today we have more recent knowledge of the damage of landfilling waste from mines in the sea than when the permit was granted. The project has also changed, and it may look like it will be profitable even without sea deposits. Will the Council of State redesign the permit as it is no longer necessary to talk about pollution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1032	The representative Haltbrecken correctly points out that the starting point of the pollution law is that pollution is prohibited for everyone and that it is only when a specific derogation is granted under law, regulation or authorisation, that a derogation can be made from it. It shall be based on a sound knowledge base — in fact, the most widely available knowledge base at all times. Only after that will you get a special permit. When deciding whether such an authorisation can be granted, the attention shall be paid to both the pollution disadvantages of the measure and the other benefits and disadvantages that the measure will bring. It is only in cases where the benefits exceed the disadvantages that pollution can be allowed. Before the authorisation was granted in 2015, a concrete assessment was made based on extensive knowledge acquisition, including the assessment of alternatives to marine landfills, which we also discussed in the previous round of questions. In general, we have a high threshold to convert a permit. The person who has received a permit must be able to expect it to apply over time. It is about the ability of Norwegian enterprises to set up their operations after a decision has been taken. However, the permit granted under the pollution law requires the company to submit to the pollution authority a statement of the scope of the activity if the permit has not been put into service within four years, because it is necessary to make changes to the permit. In addition, the pollution law allows for conversion in certain cases. This may, for example: changes in the case of new technologies capable of significantly reducing pollution. So it's true that the project has changed something since the permit was granted. It is expected that a project of such a scale as the Nordic Rutile plans will be adjusted and optimised along the way. Some of the changes made to the project may also be seen as optimisation in line with the permit and in line with the obligation to minimise pollution as far as possible. I would also like to mention that assessments related to changes in operation will also be part of the Environmental DG's assessment related to the waste management plans, as mentioned above, which have to be approved before the landfill can be put into service, also based on the detailed underground operational plan that the Directorate for Mineral Management will assess before the start-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1045	I thank you for your answer. Now there's a new company, Arctic Mineral Resources. They have made plans for mining in the Engebo mountains without the use of sea deposits. Now that there are alternatives that do not mean dumping huge masses in a clean fjord, which will do great damage to life in the fjord, why does the government doubt that the masses will be dumped in the Fördefjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1050	I repeat – as I have been told in several answers – that although it has been authorised to dump lots, it is also a prerequisite that the company will reduce the amount of waste as far as possible and constantly look for alternative solutions for parts of the waste. So the permit is given, because in this case the knowledge base did not confirm what was claimed by the representative Haltbrecken: that it would have such a negative impact on the marine environment. On the contrary, it was argued that the normal status of the fjord will be restored after relatively few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1055	Finally, when the Environment Directorate was asked to provide a purely environmental evaluation of the project, they recommended abandoning the plans to use the Fördefjord as a maritime landfill. It was only when the Environment Directorate was asked to make a further assessment that they gave that authorisation. Here you have an alternative project where you can get down to zero - 0 grams, 0 kilograms, 0 tons - in what is to be deposited in the Fördefjord. Then I asked myself the question: what is it that the government is turning around in this case? How much environmental damage is the government willing to accept before it turns?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1062	I mean – with all due respect – that I responded to it in my original answer. There is the possibility of making both changes and significant transformations, but on very strict assumptions, based on what alternatives are available. So here we haven't seen it that it's right to convert the permit, but it's right to stress the continuous obligation to both reduce the amount of waste and to follow up on the technology that's embedded in the permit. To the first thing that was now mentioned: it's a perfectly correct observation that there's a number of activities that we should really just let go of if you just leave environmental considerations behind. But it is in society that we need to reconcile environmental, climate and nature considerations, which we need to optimise as much as possible, with a need for, for example. Sometimes to make things, travel, stay and eat food. So if you were to say that you just base environmental considerations, there wouldn't be a lot of activity left. The job we're doing now is trying to minimize the conflict between the considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1072	It is with interest that I follow this debate, and I also have a question about the Fördefjord: ‘The ESA has opened up a case on its own initiative to examine whether Norway’s legislation is in line with the Water Directive and whether the assessment in the interests of society has been properly implemented. Such a case may have consequences for the assessment of the permits for mining in the Engebøfelt and the Fördefjord sea deposit, which will clearly lead to a deterioration in the ecological status of the fjord. Will the Council of State ensure that the ESA process is completed before the establishment of the maritime landfill?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1081	As the representative of the Netherlands correctly refers to, the Ministry of Climate and Environment received a letter from ESA last October and in the letter ESA reviews whether the EU Mineral Waste Directive has been implemented in Norwegian law. I would like to stress that in its letter ESA does not conclude that Norway has broken the Mineral Waste Directive in the cases where authorisation for sea landfill has been granted. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1086	The President is wondering if the Council of State is responding to the wrong answer. He now refers at least to the representative who asks the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1091	That's absolutely right -- it was about the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1096	Then we go back to the start.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1101	Then I apologize to the representative of Birgit Oline Kjerstad, who of course asked this question. My problem was that the next question is on the same matter, but then I can use the opportunity to answer this important matter thoroughly. The case of mining in the Engeboeberg and the relationship with the EU Water Directive has been dealt with by ESA for several rounds in various complaints. In 2017, ESA decided to close an appeal case concerning Fördefjorden and Norway’s compliance with the Water Directive. ESA concluded at that time that the conditions for exemption from the Directive were met and that Norway did not break its obligations under the Directive. The fact that Norway does not breach the obligations under the Water Directive has been taken into account from the Norwegian side in the examination of this last case referred to in the question. This was also referred to in Norway's reply letter to ESA in this case. And I would like to stress, as I was in the meantime, that in their letter ESA does not conclude that they believe Norway has broken the directive in the cases where it has been granted an emission permit for marine landfills. However, if ESA were to have a different view of how Norway has implemented the water directive obligations, I would like to consider further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1108	There is now a case that was reported to ESA in 2021, when it concerns this issue. There are a lot of things here that have been asked questions, and the cases are not finished, among other things. the benefits of society shall be greater than the disadvantages suffered by fjords. The Council of State has said earlier today that Norwegian fjords are owned by maritime landfills. What is special about Norwegian seascapes is that they are very productive, have a lot of life and are of the most valuable fjords. Seafood establishments, the Fishlayer, etc. has responded to this case and has said that there can be enough emphasis on social interests here. Will the Council of State review this matter and really see whether the interests of society are important enough, in line with the ESA Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1113	First of all, I'm very familiar with the local concern and commitment that exists in this case, and that's of course something we take seriously. But the question from Kjerstad's representative is whether we are going to await a conclusion from ESA on a matter where we have a position that is that we have not broken the principles on which we are based. We have that position, and therefore that case will not in itself lead to a change of position or postponement of the case. But we have an ongoing commitment to the issues that are raised here, in terms of getting, as I said in my previous answer, the optimal relationship between being able, for example. produce minerals while reducing the negative impact on the local environment. Norwegian fjords are both very rich and valuable, I fully agree with that. But it is the case that the Directorate for the Environment has assessed that the negative impact is relatively small and less than many of the stakeholders claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1118	One of the principles here is for ESA that when one is going to landfill at sea, there should be no alternative but to landfill. The representative previously said the halt here that there is an alternative already. However, maintaining a permission to sea deposit. Is that in line with the ESA guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1123	As I have been in several question-answers, it is that at the time you grant the permit, you consider what you are applying for, against known alternatives at that time. It was then done, and here it was judged that this was the best, i.e. the least dramatic option for the part of the environment there and then. Then there is a mechanism to have a waste management plan, such as: involves minimising the waste that needs to be disposed of. If you follow that plan, it will be in line with developments in technology. So this is a long way on the way. However, withdrawing an authorisation some years after it has been granted is relatively far away, because you also need to create conditions for business – I would also think that the representative Kjerstad agrees in principle – so that you know how to plan for operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1129	The Minister for Climate and Environment is a popular person in the Questionnaire, and question 8 is also to that Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1137	I'm glad the minister claws to answer my question, because that's a good question. ‘ESA has sent a letter to the Ministry of Climate and Environment stating that Norwegian practice on waste plans violates the Mineral Waste Directive in an ongoing process. The Directive requires the establishment of a waste management plan and the minimisation of waste to be part of the process. This has not happened in the mining project with sea landfill in Fördefjorden. Will the Council of State ensure that mining projects are not initiated until ESA has completed its review of whether the permits are in breach of the EEA Agreement?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1146	It is a pleasure to finally answer the representative of Unneland to his questions. As the representative of Unneland correctly refers to, the Ministry of Climate and Environment received a letter from ESA last October. In this letter ESA reviews whether the EU Mineral Waste Directive has been implemented in Norwegian law. So the previous question was about the Water Directive. I would like to stress that the ESA in the letter does not conclude that Norway has broken the Mineral Waste Directive in the cases where authorisation for sea landfill has been granted. The application for authorisation in the cases of Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden was sent to the Environment Directorate before the Mineral Waste Directive was implemented in Norwegian law. Thus, at the time of application, there was no requirement under the Norwegian legislation that the waste management plan be attached to the application. The application process gave the Directorate-General for the Environment access to the information required by a waste plan. In addition, the Directorate has laid down conditions in the emissions permits in these cases that the final waste plan must be available and must be approved by the Environment Directorate before landfill can be started. The waste management has therefore been well managed in the cases of Fördefjorden and Repparfjorden, although the original decision itself was taken before the mineral waste directive was incorporated into Norwegian law. Any new applications that may be made will be dealt with after the new legislation currently in force, where, in line with this EU Directive, there is a requirement for a waste management plan to be included in the application and in the permit. I stress, to make this clear: it is in preparation for a waste management plan even if it was not pending when the original application was made, because the legislation was different. As far as I am aware, ESA has not completed the handling of the complaint from the environmental organisations in 2017. What has been done is that, in the light of the preliminary assessments, a thorough review of the implementation of the Mineral Waste Directive has been carried out in Norwegian law. I will come back with both information and assessments as soon as this work is done by ESA, but the process of business will continue until the conclusions are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1159	It is true, as the minister says, and the Ministry has shown in information on EEA matters for Stortinget that the permits for landfills in Førdefjorden and Repparfjorden were applied for before the implementation of the Mineral Waste Directive. However, there is still no beginning to drill in the mountains in any of these projects, and regardless of when the permits were granted, it is fully possible to convert permits when they have a significant environmental impact. Will the government ensure that we do not put ourselves on the lowest possible requirements and the lowest possible standards, even when the interventions have not been completed? It must be allowed to ask what to do in order to be willing to change the permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1164	I can definitely make it clear that we are not going to put ourselves on the lowest possible standard, but rather on the highest possible standard, and that therefore there is an integrated development in this, as there is a waste management plan in preparation, which is once again to look at the principle of minimum disposal, and the use of the best available technology. So I think it's embedded in this. The fact that new knowledge comes after the directive has been given is actually relevant to the matter, and that has been taken into account already when the authorisation was granted. But that's not the same thing as withdrawing the permit. I then come back to the fact that it will be a matter of time before the authorities to convert a permit that has been granted on a solid basis of knowledge at the time it was given, in which case this option was assessed against others. Fortunately, however, we have already, before the EU's wise Mineral Waste Directive, ensured that such a waste management plan would come about before final production began.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1169	I would argue that it is common sense that our fjords should not be used as garbage fillings. We have now received directives following directives, strengthening standards in areas by area, and there are ever new concerns about the environmental consequences of sea landfill in Repparfjord or Fördefjord. It's wise as it says in the mountain sweat rules, that there's no shame in turning around. Would the government be willing to turn on such an important question as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1174	I want to start by stressing that I agree that we are not going to use the fjords to throw garbage in, and I also agree with the underlying premise – that we have been doing this for many years. That's why the fjords are much more polluted than they should be. But it is probably not this kind of pollution that has been the biggest problem of the fjord, and that's also why you do environmental studies and try to rely on factual knowledge, which are not diabolical positions of the type, that you can never deposit in fjords – if that's going to lead to a poorer solution than seabeds, in the probably few cases where it's considered to be the right one. I think it's no shame to turn around, but it's almost even wiser to assume that when you give a permit, things can change along the way, and then build up such a premise that those who get a permit will help to use available technology to reduce the amount of waste and the amount you need to deposit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1184	‘Last year the Left and the Blue-Green Government set at 225 million. to convert the leisure card scheme into a permanent national scheme. The leisure card scheme should benefit all children and young people between the ages of 6 and 18. The current government has decided to terminate the test project from 1 July 2022. Can the Council of State explain what concrete measures have been taken for this age group, what grants have been granted under their alternative scheme, and how will this be applied to local teams and organisations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1191	Access to leisure activities is important. It helps to include children and young people and prevents loneliness and outreach. The government will work to ensure that leisure activities are available to all children, but will give priority to measures other than the national leisure card scheme. A national leisure card scheme is expensive, and its effects are uncertain. I would like to remind you that the test project will go as planned and be completed on 1 July. The follow-up evaluation will provide us with knowledge and experience that can be useful in the further work of including children and young people in leisure activities. Instead of a national leisure card, this government will do so. prioritisation of a better local economy so that municipalities can prioritise their own inclusion measures. We have also prioritised full VAT compensation for voluntary activities, so that training and membership fees can be kept low. In the 2022 budget is also the new and merged takeover scheme to include children and young people with a total of 85 million. kr. The front arrangement covers, inter alia: contributions to holidays and leisure activities, open meeting places, equipment centres and youth unemployment, which can help young people complete their schooling. We believe that such a strengthened incentive scheme will allow more children and young people to participate in social activities and to complete educational courses. It also facilitates children and young people to experience mastering and social participation. The early retirement scheme has been extended so that municipalities can apply for contributions to local leisure funds to cover the costs of participating in leisure activities for children and young people. This may include: be the cost of equipment, participant fees, cupcakes, etc. Resources for such leisure funds are new, and there are actions requested from several voluntary organisations. These schemes will then be able to cover support for municipal measures for the same purpose as the leisure card. Furthermore, the government is working hard to reduce poverty, especially that of families with children. To achieve that, we also have in our budget priority welfare services such as kindergarten and SFO, which are going to be cheaper for everyone. We will also introduce a daily healthy school meal, and we will make the tax system more socially disrupted, which is also important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1204	A few weeks ago, I visited the municipality of Arendal, which was one of the pilot municipalities for the leisure card. They reported very positive results with the scheme, and the leader of the Arendal Karatek club, who was there, called it the best thing that had happened to sports, integration and involvement. One of the things that was considered positive in Arendal was that the scheme was universal, because in that way the cultural unit in the municipality could go around the schools and deliver each student a separate gold ticket and in that way draw attention and 'buzz' around the scheme. It could not have been done if this was a need-based system; it could lead to stigma for the individual child. The Hurdal platform shows that we want to delete the universal provision of well-being for children and young people, but immediately afterwards we choose to remove this universal system, so I do not fully understand the government's attitude to universal arrangements. How does the Council of State feel that the removal of the leisure card is consistent with its own objectives in the Hurdal platform, and how will it defend the fact that more than 200 million are then removed? kr and increasing... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1213	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1218	Now it is that the follow-up evaluation of the test project is still not ready, so to conclude from experience in one municipality on what a national bet will result is a bit difficult. As I said, the pilot project is going as planned. It will end on 1 July of this year. The follow-up evaluation we then receive will provide us with useful knowledge of what we are going to focus on in the future. The preliminary results of the leisure card scheme show that it has our resource requirements to establish. She has had a positive impact on the work of municipalities with inclusion and participation, but there is too little certainty about the impact of the scheme on the participation of children and young people. So we haven't promised a national roll-out, and we have, among other things, a national roll-out. increase the redundancy scheme that goes to all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1225	This arrangement is not something we've just invented on our own. This is a scheme based on experience from Iceland, where the scheme has had very good effects. We have already received some interim reports, and this shows, among other things, that. that, overall, most municipalities have made good progress in establishing it and that the organisation of municipalities seems to work well. Now you've gone from a scheme that's set at 225 million. Another NOK 50 million. SEK to a new grant scheme where municipalities can apply themselves. Some of the things that were fine with the leisure card scheme were that the kids and the kids themselves could choose which leisure activity they would go to. Now it is up to adults to apply for the activities to receive these funds, and with it some of the freedom that children and young people have had disappears. The left considers it important to invest in children and young people, but with the new scheme it seems most important to invest in organisations. Will the Council of State take action to ensure the same degree of freedom of choice for children and young people as the leisure card scheme did?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1234	When one refers to Iceland, I would like to make it clear that it is very important to learn from Iceland with the idea that we can prevent a lot by giving all children and young people the opportunity to have an activity or to be in activity. That objective is passed on by this government. We are to ensure that all children and young people are given the opportunity to participate in a leisure activity. When we don't want to roll out this leisure card even before we get an evaluation, it's because we've got feedback that a lot of resources are being used to establish it. We think that a system of leisure funds, which is easy for municipalities to manage and apply for, can cover a lot of the same intentions, and that the money goes straight to the activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1245	Question 10 is from the representative Turid Kristensen from the Right, who has addressed the question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. It has been transferred to the Minister of Justice and Preparedness as constitutionally responsible, but is, however, being answered by the Minister of Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Defence, who has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1250	I finally got the right government council in place. ‘The VG writes on 7 February about the strong increase in violence in close relations. A study from Trøndelag shows that there has been a dramatic increase in the pandemic, an increase of 54 pst. There is reason to believe that this also applies to other parts of the country. About 90 pst. of the victims are women, but there is also an increase in male victims. How does the Council of State work to prevent and combat violence in close relations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1259	Here, state councils work – in a number of ways – to prevent and fight against violence. Powered in close relationships is a societal challenge, and it applies to both women, men and children who are exposed to power in close relationships. Women — mentioned in the study — are more likely to be seriously and repeatedly elected than men, and they are also more likely to be subject to sexual violence, even in close relationships. For the government, the most important task is to ensure that crime does not happen, and that individuals are secure security, good legal security and available services throughout the country. Powered in close relations is serious crime, which is to be given a higher priority throughout the criminal justice chain, from prevention to criminal execution. In the government statement, the Hurdal Platform, we warn that we should present an escalation plan against violence and abuse against children and violence in close relations. The plan shall be drawn up in cooperation with several departments and shall have the needs and legal certainty of its stay at the centre. A holistic and co-ordinated policy against violence in close relationships involves several relevant sectors, establishments, institutions and organisations. Good interaction between management levels and between different sectors at State, regional and municipal level is also an indication of the quality of work. In addition, good cooperation between public, private and voluntary actors is important. Chosen in close relationships leads in their utmost consequence to the loss of human life. Every fourth killing in Norway is a partisan rap, and most of the killing sleepers are women. Research shows that these killings rarely come without warning. This means that there is a high potential for better prevention. We're going to go through the recommendations of the Party Draps Selection, which came out in December 2020. The establishment of a permanent joint action is one possible measure. The purpose of such a Commission will be further learning and further development of the work of preventing peer selection and partnardrap. Children are also subjected to violent and sexual abuse, both inside and outside the home, and increasingly online. Police figures show that the number of reported cases with possession and spread of assault material and child sexualisation has increased by 39 pst. from 2020 to 2021. There is also an increase in other sexual offences against children during this period. It is a disturbing development that I will follow closely in the future. The State Children's House is important here, and there will also be an evaluation of the State Children's House from Oslomet. It is also a report that can provide a good basis for further development of children's homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1274	I thank you for the answer and am happy to hear that the Council shares my commitment, and she is quite right: this is across at least eight departments that are actively involved. In August 2021, the Solberg Government presented an action plan containing 83 concrete and targeted measures to prevent and combat violence in close relations. I have registered what the Council of State was also talking about, that it has been announced that there will be an escalation plan. I would assume that the escalation plan could be based on much of what is in the action plan, and on very many of the measures there – not least measures such as prevention programmes, investigation commissions, increased quality in crisis centres, offer to the paper centres, to mention something. But my next question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State explain what, if anything, has been done so far to follow up the action plan? And anyhow, can the Council of State say something about when we can expect the announced plan of escalation to be presented – something about the timetable for its work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1283	When it comes to the timetable for the escalation plan, I can't say anything more specific than that we started work. The plan will be submitted when it is completed. I understand that the Storing is also concerned with the theme, and it's good that one is involved in it also from the opposition's side. We have a common goal. When it comes to the other work, we in the political platform are clear that we should give priority to choice in close relations and sexual abuse, in the whole chain of punishment. We're going to make that escalation plan. In the budget for 2022, there was also a strong strengthening of measures. It is all from measures on the prioritisation of police work that a number of measures have also been passed on from the pandemic. In January of this year we also delivered a bet for children and young people who also had measures to fight against violence and abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1290	I just want to go back to the study from Trøndelag, which shows that the situation got dramatically worse under the pandemic, so there's really a need now for us to get the stairs up this work to prevent and help those who've been hit. Fortunately, one of the measures of the Solberg Government's action plan is to include violence in close relations in future contingency plans, which I hope this government will also follow up. However, another action is to carry out a new national scope study as part of a research programme. The NRK also had a case about this study before Christmas, and researchers there pointed out that there is reason to believe that the findings in the Trondellag could apply to the whole country. But we don't know that, so they're asking for further studies and research. So finally, my follow-up question is: Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the government is able to obtain up-to-date information on developments during the pandemic, including in all other parts of the country, in the further work on following up the action plan and working on this escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1297	It's hard to answer no to such a question. Of course, I will take it with me when we are going to work on this escalation plan. It goes without saying that in this area, it's absolutely essential that we have good knowledge, that it's going to be researched, and that we get numbers and facts on the table. It's a sign of numbers, both those under the pandemic and those under the pandemic, that we're going to be surprised at the scale. We like to think that this is not as big a social problem as it really is, and I think that good facts and that we know what we're talking about, also suggest that there is less taboo about this; it's easier to prioritize and debate politically and – not least – out in the services. It can also contribute to what is the main point here: to prevent and prevent more women, men and children from experiencing power, and especially power in close relationships, which is our biggest task to prevent.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1305	‘The evening post summarized on 9 February the whirlwind of unknown outcomes by the government throws the municipalities and the counties into when the new regions were dissolved. Several municipalities signal that they do not want to go back to their old counties. The main argument of the government to dissolve is that the mergers should have taken place by force. Will the government then force municipalities to return to their old counties, or will local self-government still count the most in these matters as well?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1312	The government places strong emphasis on local democratic considerations. That's why we now give coercive states and municipalities the opportunity to share if they want to. I record that in the light of this process, questions have arisen about county membership. The discussion of county membership must primarily take place at local level. From the letter I sent out in November with information on the process and timetable for sharing, it appears that any request from the county council for sharing must contain proposals for new county boundaries. The counties of each municipality should also be specified. The division of counties is a nationally regulated process, and it is the Storting that has the authority to divide the counties. According to the plan, the government will promote a proposition for the Stortinget in the spring of 2022 with proposals for a decision on the sharing of the county municipalities concerned, new county boundaries and the county of each municipality. If a municipality would later change the county, the rules of procedure of the law of division apply. If such a border adjustment between counties applies to more than one municipality, the Grand Duchy has the competence to take decisions. In the government's assessment of such cases, we will weigh different considerations. Of course, local authorities' own wishes will weigh heavily, but among other things. the importance of the counties affected, i.e. the state where they leave and, where appropriate, what they come to, and their consequences for, for example. compartmentalisation must also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1325	It might be tempting to ask the Council of State what the government has in mind for municipalities that want to enter other counties. There is a lot to say about the Central Party election campaign, but for several of us, the simple answers to complicated questions – something we noticed – were not as obvious. Splitting structures that are now in the process of being settled, especially in the Gulf, but also in Westfold and Telemark and the Inland, is not as simple as you can imagine. Change processes one way or another are very demanding for those involved. It may be easy to think that municipalities need to find a place in their old units, but this is more complicated than that. Now we see that more and more municipalities have not surprisingly looked at new opportunities and sought new cooperation. Does it really come as lightning from the clear sky for the Center Party that municipalities now don't necessarily want to belong to their old units?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1334	It is right that structural change processes entail difficult and demanding processes and discussions, as the representative of Skelstad now addresses. But at the same time, I have to note that the concerns about precisely that did not really apply when one chose to use force to change the structure and expose those municipalities and county councils to these demanding processes. Otherwise, I refer to my answer. It happens from time to time that there are discussions about changes in county membership. In some cases it is sought, and in some cases it is also granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1341	It's interesting that it goes by coercion again. You might want to stay a little bit. For what is coercion? Is it coercive in any case when it is contrary to the will of the Central Party – legally adopted decisions in this Chamber? Is it the Central Party's definition of coercion, because they disagree with what has happened, with decisions in this Chamber, but also in other cases? And that's not going to come from, quite concretely: Will the Council of State be positive, despite what he said after the men and women in the previous answer, that some municipalities – read Alta, without me doing proceedings here – will change the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1346	The question of the definition of coercion is not whether the conclusion is in favour of or against the views of the Centre Party. The question is whether it is for or against the views of local democracy, i.e. the units against which it has been coerced. That's the point. Otherwise, the representative argues that it would be almost automatic in that if a municipality wants to change the county, it should be honoured. That's what really underlies too much of the question and reasoning here. But that's not how it worked up to now, at least. There must be a concrete assessment, an analysis of the situation. So have previous governments. We will not go back more than two to three years in time until we find that a government of which the Left was part, said no to a county swap for a municipality in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1353	Questions 12 and 13 will be answered later, before question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1422	Questions 14 to 20 are postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1430	‘It may seem that the Minister of Oil and Energy has not understood the seriousness of the electricity price crisis in this country for most people and for business. Governments have stated: ‘This means that when the Norwegian state spends more money, it has meaning for other parts of our economy, like what we can spend on other parts of our society to avoid interest rate increases. We also have an action rule to limit our use of oil money." Has the government understood that the state has raised tens of billions of dollars more than the current shock due to the current prices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1437	Let me first make it quite clear: the government wants access to clean and reasonable power to continue to be a Norwegian competitive advantage that contributes to value creation and employment in the future as well. It is correct, as the representative points out, that the state receives increased revenue in the current situation, including: from taxes and from the dividends paid by Statkraft. The strong public ownership of Norwegian power supplies also increases the income of many municipalities. That's why it's not only required, it's also right that we set up in the situation of the year. The government has implemented comprehensive measures to remedy the exceptional electricity prices situation this winter. In addition to the temporary electricity support scheme for households, we have reduced the electricity charge, increased housing support, increased support for students, increased support for municipalities to cover increased payment of social assistance and increased support for additional measures through Enova. We have also proposed our own support schemes for the agricultural and greenhouse industries and non-governmental organisations. All of this has been completed in a few months. Then it is necessary that we now go thoroughly through the experience of the force situation of the year. We need to look at the risk of similar situations, and we need to keep working on measures. At the same time, we must work towards a long-term development in the supply of power that preserves the good starting point Norway has had for many years. That's why the government has now set down an energy commission. The Commission shall assess the need for energy in the future and proposals for increased production. In particular, the Commission shall assess the fundamental dilemmas of Norwegian energy policy up to 2030 and 2050 and how different policy choices can affect the long-term development of Norwegian power supply. The electricity price has increased to very high levels and resulted in a significant increase in electricity costs. The government has shown that we are making good arrangements to remedy the situation. We're still going to do that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1452	In my question, I pointed out what is being said when oil money is growing, or interest rates can rise. What it has to do with the fact that the state holds in tens of billions of dollars more than one user in power support, I really wonder. Does it have anything to do with the whole thing? One shall not use any oil money or anything which would endanger an increase in interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1457	There I just have to repeat what I said in my previous answer, namely that it is right for the representative to point out that the state is getting more revenue in today's situation, among other things. from taxes and from the dividends paid by Statkraft. The strong public ownership of Norwegian power supplies also increases the income of many municipalities. In addition, the country has increased revenues in the form of a high level of gas prices. All of this has an impact on the economy as a whole and on the national economy as such. The power support system with the areas I mentioned in my first response: increased housing support, reduced electricity charges, etc., has added 14 billion. kr in electricity support, and we will continue to provide support for the duration of the price crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1462	That's $14. NOK of approx. 40 B.C.E. kr in additional income in addition to that received by both Statnett and Statkraft and to which the Council of State correctly refers, there are billions per day in extra revenue from the oil and gas sectors. Then my final question is 35 pst. of the consumption of electricity is the household that stands for. The remaining 65 pst. the consumption accounts for the provision of services and the business environment. For the 65 pst. As we're talking about now, business and services, the government hasn't given a penny. Can the Council explain to me why the business community will not receive power support when they account for as much of the extra income that the government incurs because of the sky-high power prices? And why is it that Norwegian business is going to go bankrupt because the government is not responding?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1467	It might be necessary to clarify that the 14 billion. kr, which I mentioned instead, is about what we have done so far. And then I'm saying we're going to keep going in the future, we're also going to follow that situation closely. Then I want to say that it is not right that no part of society other than households has benefited from some of the benefits we have given, and some of the measures we have taken. Among other things, a reduction in the electricity charge will benefit everyone. In addition, there are so far separate support schemes for agriculture and the greenhouse industry, which are also an important part of business in Norway. We follow the situation closely. It is important that we also look at the long-term measures. That's why we're going to review the situation, both the reasons why we got there, and how this system has worked this winter when prices have been so high.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1479	‘Does the Minister for Oil and Energy share the demand of a number of local politicians in the Workers' Party and trustees in the trade movement to renegotiate the concession agreements for the foreign tables, so that we can regulate exports more stringently and more appropriately in terms of security of supply and stable, low prices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1484	The government has clearly stated that we are investigating how Norwegian exports of power affect Norwegian security of supply and Norwegian electricity prices, and what concrete measures can help to ensure that Norwegian renewable power remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. Last Friday we set up an Energy Commission with extensive experience and competence to look at these issues. As regards renegotiation of foreign-exchange agreements, it is important to bear in mind that electricity trading is part of a major trade regulation, both with the EU and the United Kingdom. Any renegotiation of power needs to be assessed on the basis of our international obligations, which could also affect our rights, which perhaps the opposition does not always seem to be equally concerned with. The EEA Agreement and the United Kingdom Agreement restrict the amendments which may be made where these involve trade restrictions. The EEA Agreement shall ensure the free movement of goods and has a general prohibition of export restrictions. This also includes electricity trading. A similar provision exists in the Free Trade Agreement between the United Kingdom and the EEA countries. At the same time, there are exceptional rules, such as the provisions on safeguard measures in the EEA Agreement. However, the threshold for using such exemptions is very high. In my opinion, we are well away from such a situation. Although we experience exceptionally high power prices and lower filling levels in the warehouses than usual, we are not now in a situation of security of supply challenges. Statnet estimates that the availability of energy through winter is safe and the energy authorities follow the situation closely. We also have to remember that we can get into a situation where we ourselves need to import power from abroad. If the Norwegian authorities now intervene in the established rules on how power trading is organised, it will be able to come back to us in such a situation. There should be no doubt that the government is taking the power situation of the year seriously, and the government has implemented comprehensive measures to remedy the situation with the exceptional electricity prices this winter. In addition to the temporary power support for households, we have reduced the electricity charge, increased housing support, increased support for students, increased support for municipalities to cover increased payment of social assistance and increased support for anincreased measure through Enova. We have also proposed our own support schemes for the agricultural and greenhouse industries and non-governmental organisations, all of which have been implemented within a few months. We will also take a close look at the causes of the high electricity prices and the effects of this, so we will avoid coming in the same situation as this autumn and winter. The government has shown that we are making good arrangements to remedy the situation, and so will we in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1499	Thank you for that answer. There was a government statement before the weekend that ‘a dialogue with the United Kingdom and the EU aimed at ensuring that we avoid long periods of clean exports during periods of low magazine filling’. It was the state council itself that said to the press. What I'm asking you is whether we can get a more concrete answer to what that dialogue means. First, when should this happen, when does the dialogue start? And secondly, will the government make any concrete demands in such a dialogue? Will it be about negotiations or more loose talk? Will we get on with what is said in the quotation, namely, avoiding pure exports? And in what way will the government take concrete note of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1504	Firstly, we believe that it makes sense to determine how Norwegian exports of power affect Norwegian security of supply and Norwegian electricity prices, and what concrete measures can help Norwegian renewables remain a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. Just to make it very clear: this government does not want to approve new inter-national connections during this government period, and we also believe that Statnet should own and operate all inter-national connections. We have an energy dialogue with the EU and with the United Kingdom and our partners, through which we will follow this up. That discussion is an ongoing discussion and dialogue – we have it on a running level and not set up. So I think that once we've gone through... I'm sorry, there was time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1511	I guess many perceived the play on Friday from the Council of State as meeting all the demands of both the Workers' Party locally, from the trade movement and from very many common people around the country, just to enter into negotiations on the flow of electricity over these power cables. Many expect that the Workers' Party might want to regulate power exports, not just let the market operate in peace, as we have heard from the Council of State in the past. Then it's interesting if what was announced on Friday is something more than a continuous dialogue – a discussion that you obviously have on the go – i.e. if there's something handy here. Are there any more real negotiations about the flow over the export power cables, or is there really nothing new, but just a continuation of a so-called ongoing discussion or dialogue?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1516	For me, it is a little unclear what the representative asks, because if we are asked if we intend to start a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement, the answer to that is no. But we're going to have a dialogue, and then, first of all, it's important that we go through the experience of this winter, so that we actually have a good knowledge of what the real causes are, and how much inter-national connections have to say about the impact of power prices. And then we must have that dialogue with the United Kingdom and the European Union. It is clear that this is for our part, that we have a goal to ensure that we avoid long periods of pure export during periods of low magazine filling. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1537	The question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1545	‘Many have had an operation postponed due to reduced health care capacity. While private hospitals have free capacity, the government is drumming through their phobia against allowing private providers to treat people. This means that many people who could receive the necessary treatment rather suffer from a condition of health. How many are now in health queues, how many have been exposed since the pandemic started, and why does the Council of State think it is right that people have to live longer with pain because they have to stand in line, instead of using the available capacity of private hospitals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1552	This winter, activity has been planned to be brought back to the hospitals to deal with the increase in covid-19 hospitalisations. Unfortunately, deferral of treatment is a major burden for patients affected and for their dependants, but in some cases this is a necessary measure, including: to release health professionals for intensive treatment. High sick leave among employees also contributes to the postponement of planned operations. Health South-East has numbers that show that about 12 pst. of planned patient contacts were delayed as a result of covid-19 in December 2021. This represents approximately 10,000 contacts. It's a high number, but at the same time it's significantly lower than in previous waves of infection. By the end of December 2021, around 240,000 patients were waiting for health care to start up. That's about. 20000 more than at the end of December 2019. The government has no objection to cooperating with private partners in areas where it can provide a better offer, but it is important that it does so on the premises of our community health service. We do not want private actors to be able to establish themselves freely and drain local hospitals for resources – as we have seen examples of with the free treatment choice system. The scheme has met little of the objectives set. The evaluation was clear: it did not provide shorter waiting times or more efficient hospitals, and the freedom of choice was more accessible to patients who had the capacity to manoeuvre through the system. Regional health regions purchased healthcare from private actors for over 16 billion. kr in 2020, and it is up to health regions themselves to assess whether they will extend purchases from private operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1565	We understand that it is, of course, necessary to reduce the capacity of public hospitals. I hear the Council of State actually insinuates that you're very critical that the private take out the capacity. It's not about that, but about the willingness to actually spend more money on health care. It is not about removing capacity from public hospitals, but about the willingness to spend more money to treat more patients and avoid patients waiting in line. 240,000 people waiting in line for first treatment in hospitals are high numbers. We know that private hospitals could deliver hundreds of thousands of operations a year if they had the opportunity. Why does the Council of State think it is right that this queue has increased by 20,000, only from 2019 until the end of 2021? Why not use the private capacity that is there and spend some more money on health care? I thought it was the Labour Party's promise in the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1570	Here the representative Hoksrud's mouth is quite full. First of all, we don't think it's any good that we have waiting time, that we're being treated. We work around the clock for it to be shortened, and for no one to experience unnecessary waiting in their course of treatment. It seems that the representative wants to discuss many things at the same time. I am also very surprised when I know that in the representative's home state, Telemark, the Hospital Telemark is one of the hospitals that experience the greatest depletion of resources as a result of the system of free treatment, where private operators can establish themselves freely, with suctions into the local hospital. I encourage you to visit the Hospital Telemark mental health clinic and hear what the doctors think about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1575	I record that we are dealing with the next question, which is about free treatment options, so I understand that the Council of State needs to talk away from the fact that the number of people queueing in public hospitals has increased by over 20,000. We've seen hospitals where there's a surplus of over 1 billion. kr, the money that could have been used to prevent people from standing in that hospital queue. That's what this is all about. I feel that the Council of State is now saying that it's about taking money from the public hospitals and going to the private, but the difference between the Labour Party and the Advance Party is that we're busy with patients, that patients are going to be treated, and that we're going to spend more money to ensure faster treatment. Then the Council of State can either answer yes or no: will the Council of State increase the appropriations to bring down the queues, ensure that as much as possible is treated and will not suffer any longer because of a pandemic, and because the government does not want to use the private, available capacity that is there?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1580	Hospital budgets have increased from 2021 to 2022. There was an increase in the draft budget presented by the Government of Solberg. So the government added Bigger to 700 million. kr to, and in January, Stortinget treated an additional proposition with resources for crisis of SEK 1,5 billion. kr to hospitals, so this government has increased the appropriations for hospitals. Our health regions are buying places from private clinicians to a large extent. But there is a rather low level of precision in the representative Hoksrud, for how many of those waiting for treatment in Norwegian hospitals does he have knowledge of would have benefited from treatment by a private actor? That's the question. [[President clubs]] The party of progress has had a positive impact on this before, without benefiting patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1585	The President reminds us that when speaking time is over, you have to go in for landing and not take a new rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1593	‘Long-term treatment options shall be discontinued during 2023, which has caused great concern among patients and health professionals. Patients fear for good reason that they are getting a lower offer and longer waiting times, while health professionals in the scheme do not know how the winding-up will affect their health services and employees. How should the Council of State be able to ensure a predictable and sound process, when she says that the scheme should be terminated as early as next year without it being clear how good treatment offers can continue to operate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1600	This government has promised a settlement with privatisation and market thinking in hospitals. We are concerned about a two-part health service: one for those with resources and one for others. Then it should not surprise the representative Hoksrud that we are going in to remove a scheme that strengthens private actors at the expense of the public hospitals. This scheme has little achieved the objective of reducing waiting times or making health care more effective. It has taken money from local hospitals and has mainly gone to private clinics in the East. We have to implement the winding-up properly. We will focus on the consideration of patients who are being treated by free choice providers, in particular those who have a slightly longer treatment course. This applies primarily to drug treatment, mental health protection and rehabilitation. That is why I have also chosen to notify that we intend to wind up the scheme from 2023, so that the public hospitals will have time to prepare and possibly extend the purchases from private people. I understand that the private actors in the scheme have many questions about how we are going to implement this liquidation. We have to get back to these details in the consultation note we're now working on. The hearing will allow the approved companies to comment and make recordings. Winding-up of the scheme requires legal amendment. A case will therefore be brought before the Stortinget after the hearing. In other words, it is put up to an involved and democratically anchored process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1619	First, I would like to say that the Council of State was proud to have increased the appropriations for the hospitals by 700 million. kr. It doesn't help when the queues increase. So that means there's fewer people being treated. But in reply from the Health Minister to a written question last October, she wrote the following: ‘Predictability of private suppliers and their employees also becomes an important consideration. Private providers that provide good services and complement the public offer are the contracting parties of the regional health establishments concerned.’;» I have been in contact with several suppliers for the free choice of treatment that experience the exact opposite when it comes to predictability. Examples include: Vitalis Health in Kragerø, who has asked a lot of questions and questions about how this is going to work. Does the Council of State understand that the private operators involved in the scheme are uncertain about the future when they do not know when to terminate the free choice of treatment exactly and how to manage to enter into agreements with health establishments by that deadline?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1631	We're going to add up to a democratic process. These actors are up-to-date, serious actors that have established themselves under a regime established by the previous government. It's a government that lost its majority, so I think they're well aware that this would be a reality. Now we're saying that we're going to wind up this arrangement in 2023. We need a broad consultation process. Health regions engage in dialogue with those who may naturally continue to cooperate through agreements, but we know that many actors are not in such a category either. This will be done in line with democratic principles. That's the way it is when a majority changes, then it also changes the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1638	For the Progress Party, it's actually helping and treating people something of the utmost importance, and that's what you should focus on. Indeed, there is a wide variety of actors who are currently involved in the scheme, from healthcare companies with offers across the country to small suppliers, who have been given the opportunity to offer their services nationally due to free choice of treatment. When suppliers contact health businesses, they do not know clearly how and when to conclude new contracts, because they do not know how to interpret government signals. This is very worrying, as we know that the process of concluding new contracts with health businesses takes a long time. Does the Minister believe that all suppliers who wish to provide treatment nationally must have the resources to enter into separate agreements with each of the four regional health establishments? Does she share my concern that small patient groups will lose their treatment offer when free treatment options are closed, because it is not possible to get it locally, it must be national?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1647	This government will strengthen the public health service, our common health service, which is present everywhere, and which not only takes responsibility for patients – that is the most important thing – but also takes responsibility for research, development and the training of the specialists we need. I find it painful to hear the clinic in Telemark expressing great frustration at the lack of predictability of Norwegian local hospital experience as a result of the fact that a free treatment choice actor has established themselves in their recording area, and that they have to pay for patients they no longer treat. It's a bad way to manage the health funds. It's not in the patient's interest. This is another policy of another majority, of which the Progress Party is no longer part.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1659	I have this question for the Minister of Health: «Tuesday last week I took part in a demonstration to preserve Ullevål Hospital, and to oppose state regulation. The majority in Oslo is clear: they say no to new monster hospitals in Gaustad and Aker, and they say no to state overarching local democracy. There's no shame in turning around, and now even the government's own party in Oslo has gone against the new health plans. Does the Council of State believe it is right that national politicians should override local democracy, and put Ullevål hospitals down, despite the fact that it is against the people's own wishes?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1668	In this case, local democracy has been heard. In the consultation round for the Oslo University Hospital idea phase in 2014, the Municipality of Oslo stated that a hospital located in Oslo East/South should be investigated and pointed to Aker as an alternative. Furthermore, they dismissed a collection on Ullevål. In January 2016, the City Council in Oslo recommended the hospital structure that Health South-East adopted later that year, with New Aker Hospital, New Rikshospitalet at Gaustad, Radium Hospital and the private, ideal hospitals Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital and Diakonhemmet Hospital. The hospital structure was confirmed by the former Minister of Health at the company meeting in 2016, and the Stortinget gave it a loan framework to clinic buildings at the Radium Hospital in 2018 and to the New Aker and New Rikshospitalet in the State Budget for 2020. The municipality of Oslo, in the light of the decision on a new structure, has set in motion the construction of a new metropolitan guard at Aker. The caretaker requires extensive cooperation with Oslo University Hospital and the construction of a new large local hospital with emergency facilities at Aker. The political majority in the Municipality of Oslo now want to establish a new hospital in Aker and also retain the other hospitals that are in Oslo. What I have noticed in this debate is that there has been more attention to barley to be preserved than to the content of services and patients. It is Health South-East, and not the Municipality of Oslo, who is responsible for ensuring that the citizens of Oslo are properly provided with specialist health services and that this is implemented within the budget framework set by Stortinget. Health South-East has planned for this over a long period of time. Planning has taken place in dialogue with the municipality. The plots at Aker and Gaustad are now in a regulatory process, and I assume that the municipality of Oslo treats the matter as a regulatory matter – not as a rematch on the hospital structure in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1683	I thank the Council of State for the answer and the long statement, but it must be that what the Municipality of Oslo and the City Council, if any, said in 2014 and the City Council in 2016, is old. It is crucial what has happened in the more recent period, as the development has progressed and the City Council has gained more knowledge than they had in 2014 and the City Council in 2016. Last year, therefore, a large majority of Oslo City Councillors – only the Right Party had a different view – decided that they would rather have further development of Ullevål than a monster hospital on maybe eight to ten stories of tall buildings on the small site of Gaustad. But now it's about the regulation plan, so let me repeat my question, because it didn't answer the government council: does she think it's right that rich politicians should override local democracy and put Ullevål hospitals down despite the fact that it's against the people's own wishes? And let me add: if the Municipality of Oslo says no to the regulation plan of the OYS, will you overdo it with a state regulation plan? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1692	We have to try to stay within time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1697	It's the state that's responsible for the hospitals in Norway. Therefore, this will have repeated many times the decision to implement the New OUS plans. It says in the government statement that I, as the Council of State, am obliged to follow, and it has a broad majority behind it. In previous consultation processes, Oslo City Council has joined these plans. The fact that things can change in a year or two is part of politics and life for the rest. I am a little amazed at the views and insights of the representative Hagen in this type of large investment project, where unfortunately there is no opportunity to change opinions every year. Plans must be made for 10, 20 and 30 years in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1704	I interpret the Council of State to that those plans have not been adopted by the Stortinget. A budget has been adopted and a number of representative proposals have been voted down, but I am aware that it has not been a vote on these plans in the Grand Duchy. I assume that the council will implement, and then I have an additional question: The plot where Ullevål hospital is now located was formerly the property of the municipality of Oslo, but when you wanted to build a hospital, Oslo gave the municipality the plot to the state. If it happens that Ullevål hospital is closed on this plot, will this government ensure that the plot is returned to Oslo Municipality for free, as the state got it free from Oslo Municipality? After all, it must be perfectly moral that when you get a gift for a purpose and stop using it for the purpose, you give it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1711	There was no gift. In 2001, a reform of the specialist health service was carried out, where the State took over responsibility for the service provided by the county municipalities. Since then, there has been a 20-year settlement of different types of properties associated with that acquisition. There are no plans to give areas owned today by Health South-East and OYS to the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1719	«The engine for a market of growth and jobs is free competition. Fortunately, in many areas in Norway, we have gone away from the idea that the state should do everything – rather, we allow new and innovative actors to be admitted through tenders. An area we have on offer is a wash of textiles in the hospitals. Unfortunately, we see that there has been an approximate monopoly, where one actor has 96 pst. of all tenders. This makes it impossible for other actors to escape. How will the Council of States ensure that the monopoly ceases to exist so that more actors can escape?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1726	In Norway, laundry services can be divided into two main segments: washing textiles to private and professional customers. The washing of textiles for Norwegian hospitals is approx. 40 pst. of the total market for the provision of laundry services to professional customers in Norway. If the provision of laundry services is not self-employed by the health care provider, under the law and regulation on public acquisitions, the obligation to outsource the service is mandatory. The Health Joint Undertaking Hospital Purchases HF carried out an acquisition on behalf of 13 health businesses in 2018. The market analysis for Hospital Purchases HF prior to acquisition identified 18 relevant suppliers. Based on dialogue with the market and the acquisition objective of stimulating competition, acquisition was divided into eleven geographical sub-offers, allowing local players to compete in line with national actors in the different geographical areas of the agreement. This, combined with strategic guidance on sufficiently long term contracts, up to eight years, and sufficient implementation time of new agreements, would stimulate increased competition. The bidding round ended with four suppliers making offers. Despite the division into eleven geographically demarcated sub-contracts, Nor Textil AS was awarded nine out of eleven sub-offers. This reflects Nor Textile’s strong market position in Norway. Hospital HF is now preparing for the next competition. The health company analyses the market for laundry services in both Norway and other Nordic countries. Dialogue meetings will be held with all stakeholders in the Nordic region. In particular, it will focus on why only 4 out of 18 current Norwegian suppliers chose to offer in the previous competition in 2018. Hospital procurement HF will have dialogue with the Competition Authority at this stage. Competition supervision closely monitors the industry and has stopped a bid for competition from Nor Textil AS by 2019 at the latest. Based on the market dialogue, healthcare businesses and Hospital Purchases HF will develop a new procurement strategy for the contract area where, among others, they will be able to: will seek to facilitate increased competition. Hospitals also need to assess whether they want to have the ministry on their own. The Hurdal platform signals that the government wants to abolish the neutral VAT regime in health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1741	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. But it is a cross of thought that so few submit tenders, so that almost a monopoly situation arises. The state council points to the Competition Authority, which I think makes sense. But the question really is: what does the Council of State think that she, as head of the department and her staff, should do to arouse the interest of several potential tenderers in actually spending time and the power to submit tenders, which in itself are quite demanding – there is a great deal of work to be done? What incentives can be put on the table to ensure more effective competition for tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1746	We have 20 health companies in Norway, and it's a little different how they pick up this kind of important service. Like the representative, Wold, I am concerned that so few suppliers can compete. I would like to refer to the dialogue that Hospital Purchases HF has with the Competition Authority at this stage in advance of the preparation of a new bidding round, also considering that this is an actor who buys up others. What we want is to make it possible for Norwegian suppliers to participate in our joint health service, but we are also open to the possibility of self-employed health care providers who want to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1751	Of course, it is important for the Progress Party to ensure free competition under equal conditions. It's a goal to get at lower prices. Monopoly schemes are equally wrong whether they are public or private, and they are very rarely beneficial to the consumer. In fact, there are representatives in this Chamber who want to restore state monopolies, for example. on the telecommunications market. Fortunately, it's a long way to go that there's a majority for it. But my last question to the Council of State is simply: can the Council of State assure that, as the top head of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, she will ensure that monopoly situations around all health care acquisitions will of course not occur in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1756	We have legislation for public acquisitions to ensure equal access to the tenders that are published, and I believe that this is an important principle. It is also important for me to stress that the most important thing for us is the quality of service for those health professionals who have a good service and want to provide self-employed services. So I guess I don't quite agree with Mr. Wold, but right here we're probably very much in agreement that when solutions are to be found in a competitive market, it has to be done on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1764	‘The Government has notified that Free Treatment Choices will be closed in 2023. In today’s Medisin, February 2, State Secretary Bekeng said: ‘On a general basis, I would like to say that actors who currently provide services through the authorisation system in Free Treatment Choice can engage in dialogue with regional health companies to inform about their offer and to consult on future tendering procedures.’ Does it mean that the government is positive that private operators can provide services as long as it is in a tendering system of the individual health business?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1771	This government has promised a settlement with privatisation and market thinking in the health sector. We intend to terminate the authorisation system in the free choice of treatment. We believe that hospitals must be open to cooperation with good partners, but that this should be done on the premises of our common healthcare service. Health regions’ purchases of healthcare from private operators amounted to over 16 billion. in 2020. This includes both ideal and commercial partners. In other words, private operators make a significant contribution to the public specialist health service. The government is in favour of health enterprises cooperating with private actors, as long as cooperation is based on contractual relationships and there are real needs on the basis of which one chooses to buy services. The government also supports the non-profit sector and ideal providers in the health and care sector. We will further develop good cooperation with non-profit actors in the health and care sector and use the space for action in the procurement legislation to give priority to non-profit service providers and long-term agreements based on quality. We will also ensure that non-profit hospitals are still included as equivalent partners in planning and development work in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1780	I have noted that the Council of State also in an answer to a written question from me says that the government wants to take a settlement with privatisation and market thinking in the health sector and will therefore liquidate free treatment options. However, treatments through free choice of treatment are covered by the public. It's not privatisation. We now have a government that is only concerned with giving power to public hospitals and depriving patients of real freedom of choice. My concern is that the private health market can grow rapidly, that we will see that waiting times increase because we do not actually use that diversity and allow patients to choose freely between several healthcare providers. They are, after all, all referred from the specialist health service, also to free treatment choice providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1785	Before the right-wing government introduced the privatisation reform of free treatment choices in 2014, healthcare also used private, through contracts and tenders. It has been the Workers' Party, which I represent, and this government's policy. Now we've been sitting since October, but both government parties have thought that's the way to interact with private people. The free choice of treatment system should really be a hot freedom of establishment for private individuals, because it is not based on needs, it is based on a central authorisation, and if the actors are able to attract customers, they get funding as a suction tube out of the patient’s local hospital. We've seen the consequence of that. It has been evaluated — it has not helped to cut waiting lists, growth in private services has increased, nor has it provided more efficient services.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1790	I am responding to the definition of the evaluation that the Council of State repeatedly comes with. The evaluation of free treatment choices showed that those using the scheme had shorter waiting times. It showed that it contributed to increased freedom of choice and diversity. The evaluation also shows that free treatment options have an effect on waiting time in areas where treatment options providers are located. For the Right, it is not the most important person who provides the healthcare. For the right, it is important that we have short waiting times and that patients receive treatment quickly. In questions earlier in the Questionnaire today, the Council of State has confirmed that 240,000 people are now in line for treatment. What is it that means that officially approved suppliers, such as free treatment choice suppliers, should not be able to participate in and do this important work to ensure that we do not now get increased waiting lists and privatisation by purchasing patients themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1797	It's a bit tempting to ask back: what makes the representative Troen think that 27 free treatment options actors are going to take away from 240 000 patient treatments? It is a simplification of the challenge facing specialist healthcare after two years of pandemic. What is important is that those who have received a treatment course do not receive undue residence in that treatment. We have said very clearly that we want to strengthen public health. Free treatment options actors have mainly established themselves in the central eastern region. We want a health service that is present all over the country, and that gives good and equivalent access to specialists no matter who you are, or what you have in your wallet. It's through the public health service that we reach those goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1802	Then we go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1810	This question, from the representative Sigbjørn Framnes to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1815	I'm inside as being, and I'm from Stord. Therefore, this is important for me to lift today, so I thank you for a still. ‘Leader of the Transport and Communications Committee, Erling Sande, the Centre Party, recently stated that Hordfast and other major transport projects must be postponed or scaled down to provide sufficient money for road maintenance and racial protection. The progressing party has also noted that the proposal for the investigation and planning of Hordfast was withdrawn last autumn. At the same time, it's only a few months since the Minister of Transport from Stortinget's pulpit said that Hordfast is stuck. Can the Council of State guarantee that Hordfast will be expanded according to the existing plan and trasé elections?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1824	The Spring Review of NTP 2022–2033 showed a broad political consensus on continued commitment to transport infrastructure. Roads, railways, ports, ferries and airports bind Norway together and are crucial for settlements and jobs across the country. The government's priority is to pursue a transport policy that ensures that people and goods emerge quickly and safely, where good infrastructure provides the basis for living local environments, not least profitable jobs and good migration. I agree that the route and race protection have been down-prioritized by the outgoing right-hand government. For this reason, the Hurdal Platform has established that an obliging road upgrading plan is to be established and that a national implementation plan is to be drawn up for the racial and tailor-made protection of all highways and highways with a high and medium pace. In the case of the individual sections Erling Sande believes that it should be scaled down or postponed on time, it is almost at his expense. The purpose of that play may have been to raise a debate on priorities first. The government, on its side, has been clear and continues to assume that the NTP 2022-2033 gross domestic product notification will be implemented. As the representative is aware, it is also in the Storing Communication that the projects referred to in the Communication should be pursued with a view to increasing societal benefits and reducing costs. Being mentioned in the NTP is, as we know, not a guarantee for the implementation of the project, regardless of, among other things. the cost development of the project and the economic space in other respects. In the case of E39 Stord–Os, i.e. The Hordfast project requested by the representative requires the government to continue its work on the state regulatory plan for this project, based on the adopted municipal plan of concept in the middle. The Swedish Road Administration informs us that the department plans the project in line with the agreed plan. The ETA also informs that the work on cost reductions in the project is and will be done, in line with what they will do. The ETA indicates that they assume that the project could be built on the basis of the NTP 2022-2033 framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1835	I thank you for your answer. So Hordfast is one of the NTP's most community-friendly projects. Every day the project is postponed, society loses money and Norway loses money. Therefore, I hope that the government will work hard every day to realize this as soon as possible. Business expectations about conversion are high, which I know that private companies are taking the most seriously. One of the things that industry locally has associated with Hordfast, says to me, is that we should be happy, infrastructure that Hordfast must be built as soon as possible. It is appropriate that the Minister for Industry should now reply, and the question is: Is the Minister in agreement with the business community in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1840	Yes, there's a lot in the country that's unconstructed, and I meet a lot of companies, not least in our common region, I'm almost told, who are involved in this project. I know the project quite well myself, and as I said, we are committed to carrying out and continuing investigations in line with what has been announced in the message work. As I mentioned, the team is working further on the project according to the mandate and the framework they have. Of course, we are concerned that good, socially viable road development projects are being carried out across the country that can contribute to the necessary transformation we are going through, not only to ensure our companies' competitive advantages, but also, of course, to facilitate more emission-friendly transport, not least that the whole country can be put into service, and that people can live a good life and get to and from where they are going in an efficient, rational way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1845	As the Minister is aware, it is important that this is a good thing for citizens, businesses, municipalities and municipalities alike. In Western countries, where I am a daily politician, we are now working on a regional transport plan, where the linking of county road projects to national road projects is important. For Hordfast, there is a cross link that links Austevoll into E39, and Women's Herad through Sunnfast into E39. This is a regionally important project for further building the country together. The play of single representatives from the government party like Sande can call a hair in the government's soup, because I hope the government's goal is to build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1850	Yes, the government's goal is to build the country, and I understand very well that the representative is particularly concerned about this transportation project. That is why I am pleased that I can be here today and answer his question. As I said, the agencies continue to work on this within the framework that is. The project is an important project in the national transport plan, and we will return to Stortinget with further progress when there is more to report in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1858	This question, from the representative Silje Hemdal to the Minister for Transport, is answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport, and it is drawn up by Helge André Njåstad on behalf of Silje Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1863	In the extension of the previous questions, I also have a question that relates to roads in Hordaland, which is important for developments there: ‘Ringvei Øst in Bergen is important for Bergen and Nordhordland and the project linking new K5 Bergen-Voss with E39 Hordfast. In addition, the project solves today's major challenges with queues that everyone in North Hordland and Åsane experiences, and the road network past Grimeswings gets a real standard. The project is important, but there has recently been local political uncertainty. I would therefore like to assure myself of the following: does the Council of State have ambitions to plan and build four-field Ringweg East in Bergen?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1872	Thank you for the question. There is a broad political consensus on the Stortinget that Ringvei east of Bergen is an important road project. It showed the high-level treatment of the national transport plan for 2022–2033 last spring, where a majority wanted to accelerate the start of the northernmost segment between Wagsbotn and Klauvaneset. A majority also wanted to prioritise previous start-up for other road projects related to this. The government agrees that Ringweg East is an important road project, and we will work towards its realization. At the same time, we need to take into account the whole of the project portfolio in the national transport plan, and even if a majority in Stortinget wants to get started quickly with Ringvei East, it is not a similar agreement on how this should be financed. In examining the State budget for 2022, the Stortinget decided to make an assessment of the road portfolio in the national transport plan to contribute to the effective implementation and follow-up of climate objectives. The review shall also assess road standards, including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of four-field roads. The government believes it is important that we make overall assessments of the portfolio, including Ringweg East, and that is what we will return to Stortinget. Last week, the State Road Administration presented its implementation plan for 2022–2027, which shows how the EEA will follow up its national transport plan in the coming years. Here, the State Road Administration has committed itself to continuing the planning of the E39 Vågsbotn–Klauvaneset and to start planning for the E39 Vjøsanger–Arna. This testifies to the good progress made by the State Road Administration in the planning of the precisely Ringweg east. Therefore, the government does not see it as natural now to take new initiatives towards the State Road Administration on Ringvesen east until the assessments of the whole of this portfolio have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1883	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Unfortunately, it creates a little bit of uncertainty when you assume that you need to assess whether or not you need a four-field path. It is the local political debate in Bergen, which has created challenges for the party of state councils in Bergen, which is working with the Greens' Environment Party, but also for an entire region, which is now afraid that it is the Greens' Environment Party that wants to scale down the project, which will get the last words. The state Road Service has been very clear that they want to plan a four-field road, so I hope that it was a delay instead when one said that one should look at the need for a four-field road. Because I think everyone understands that with the corks and the cooling system that you have in Åsane, you need a four-field road to channel the traffic outside the Bergen center and not via the Bergen center. It is also a good project for the environment. So I hope the Council of State can be more clear that we need a four-field road outside the Bergen Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1888	I meant what I said, namely, that the government believes that Ringweg East is an important road project, and we want to work for it to be realized. So that's how, as I said, we also have to take the portfolio into account in the national transport plan and do this in the most appropriate way possible. But that there is a need for this project, that it can be done in a good way, and that it is probably socio-economically profitable and the right thing to do, I think we all agree on. And then the government gets back to Stortinget when it's more to report further progress. But as I said, the state road system is already running. We are told from the department that there is good progress in planning the Ringweg East, and then we choose to believe it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1895	I think the answer gets better every time, so the last answer might be even better. The only thing is that everyone's a few, I guess that's not right. The Swedish Government's cooperation party in Bergen, the Environmental Party Dei Green, does not want this project, but I think they are quite alone in wanting to reduce car traffic and rather want heavy transport to go through the Bergen centre rather than outside. But the other parties, and the parties in this hall, are some, and I perceive that the state road system is progressing well. So what's important then is that we make sure that it's the Storting that determines the level and dimension of a highway, not local politicians, and then with the Greens at the head of the Environment Party, that wants to scale down. Can the Council of State ensure that when it comes to building a European road, it is the State that defines the standard and defines how many fields we should have and that there is no local policy issue in the Bergen City Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1904	I can confirm that the way we adopt and decide on these projects will also be the basis of this project, and there are clear leads both in the NTP and in other policies on how the development is decided. Projects of over 1 billion. kr is going to Stortinget, I am familiar with it, and there are also a number of other leaders there that the government is going to deal with. So I just want to stress again that in Stortinget, and not least among the government parties, there's the excitement that this project will be realized. It works too fully, and we have no reason to believe that progress is slowed down or restricted by other factors.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1911	Then we move on to question 29, which is from the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski to the Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1919	‘The Hurdal Platform aims to ‘reduce mining waste through more stringent resource utilisation and refill requirements’. A company has been authorised to establish sea depots in Fördefjorden in order to extract in the mountains. An application has now been submitted from another company to exploit a larger part of the resource without the need for sea deposits. Does the Council of State nevertheless believe that the project of Nordic Rutile AS on Engebøjellet will be in line with the government's own mining objectives?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1926	Thank you for a good question. The company Nordic Rutile AS wants to extract rutile in Engebøjellet in the municipality of Naustdal in the western counties. The company has worked on this project over a very long time, we get to say. That's why I think it might be useful to recapitulate the process so far. In the Engøs case, the process has taken about 14 years to this day. Work on impact studies, etc. until the regulatory plan took place in the years 2008 to 2011 and was adopted in the municipality in 2011. The decision was then appealed against to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, which maintained the decision in 2015. The Ministry of Local Government then assumed that the emissions permit and the operating concession required the mining company to work to reduce the need for landfilling of waste masses. In 2015, that is, the same year, Nordic Rutile AS was also allowed to operate under the pollution law, i.e. an emission permit. It was from the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The project and the emissions case were then coordinated. Then, on 1 February 2019, Nordic Rutile AS applied to the Directorate of Mineral Management for an operating concession. That application was submitted at a hearing in August 2019 and the Directorate took a decision granting the operating concession to the company on 17 June 2020. That decision is, as is well known, indicted. The case was transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries as the Board of Appeal on 9 November 2020, and it is now for our specific assessment and treatment. As the representative writes, there is now another company that says they want to extract the mineral grenade in parts of the area. The question about the rights of the minerals in the Engebø body is also part of an expropriation case that we have to deal with, and that therefore I cannot go further into here. The government is committed to contributing to the creation of the world's most sustainable mineral industry. There is an overall environmental and climate movement, an overall industry, an overall force for the green shift that fully agrees with the government that we need a sustainable extraction of minerals, and that Norway can take on a special responsibility here. Therefore, we want to facilitate the development of nutrition and growth within the framework of the Mineral Law and other relevant legislation, while setting strict environmental requirements to ensure sustainable and efficient extraction. The government has decided and also communicated that we are working on a mineral strategy. I am myself quite closely involved in that work. I have had good meetings with the climate and environmental movement several times, met the industry, met the social partners, met the Sametinget. There are many who have good, strong opinions about this, who have good questions, and who have a lot of professional work to put up with. We are concerned that we should listen to as many actors as possible, because we mean seriously when we say that we should contribute to making the world's most sustainable mineral industry. In this work, of course, we will also look at new measures that can reduce the excess and re-use them for other reasonable purposes. In this work we will also look at the need for landfills and, of course, also how we can increase the environmental sustainability of these industries. Now we're going to do that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1947	I thank you for the thorough response from the Council of State. It follows from the legislation we have, in particular the pollution law, that it is not necessary to pollute unless it is strictly necessary. It is not allowed to contaminate. It also follows from the provisions of both the Pollution Act and the Basic Law that administration has a duty to convert in many ways when pollution is no longer necessary. This does not mean that the consideration given to those who have received a pollution permit is irrelevant, but it means that less attention must be given to the development of technology and the emergence of opportunities to avoid pollution. Will these considerations be taken into account in the assessment that the Ministry is now doing, in relation to the matter on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1954	Let me just be quite clear that what I'm saying now is in general, because we have two specific issues – the same thing, but two different assessments, an operating concession complaint and an expropriation case – for treatment. In general, I would say that there should be a high threshold for converting permits. It is about predictability and that business should be able to trust that the administration is responsible for what the administration has said. It is true that Section 18 of the Pollution Act allows for the possibility of conversion in certain cases, for example: where new technologies make it possible to significantly reduce pollution. It is an assessment based on environmental legislation, not the concrete assessment we are now making of the operating concession and, where appropriate, expropriation. When it is said, we will see when we are going through the matter thoroughly. It's like, with all these things, a lot of strong opinions. It's an important matter for many, it's important for local communities, for industry, for the environment and others, and until we've been thoroughly involved, I can't comment on the further process in relation to this matter specifically.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1963	It is also an important issue for the environment. It follows from the Nordic Rutile AS’ own plans that they should exploit approx. 15 pst. by the ore, i.e. the rock that goes to the recovery after the grey mountain is sorted out. Then that other company has applied for a concession where they state that they will benefit from a much larger share. In the circular strategy, the government expresses an ambition for the government to be a leading country in the development of a green circular economy that makes better use of resources. Since it is possible in this case, how should the government follow it up without then taking responsibility for the permits that have not yet been put into effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1968	We must definitely follow that in our general industrial policy, and we must follow it up specifically when we are going to revise the Mineral Law. We also need to follow it up specifically in the work on a new mineral strategy. I understand very well the reason and the background to the question, but as I said, we now have these matters for concrete consideration in the department, both on the operating concession and on the expropriation request, it is not natural that I go into it more, other than saying that we are of course making a broad and proper assessment. We are committed to ensuring that all decisions are taken and that all relevant considerations are well-explained and well-managed. At the same time, I – then again in general – stress that there must also be predictability and not least predictability for business. When there are matters that have been going on over a long period of time, a lot of resources have been spent on investigations, and there are many who have been involved in the project, there should also be a threshold if one with permission chooses to change the assumptions for projects. So I'm going to say that on a general basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1980	‘Data from telecommunications companies provide information about where you were when you were using a service, who you were talking to, and what equipment you were using. This is valuable information for the military junta in Myanmar. Telenor established in Myanmar in 2014, but now sells out. Reuters and the Financial Times report that the buyers are M1 and Shwe Byain Phyu. The latter have direct links to the military junta in Myanmar. How will the Council of State, in dialogue with Telenor, prevent metadata from Telenor Myanmar from entering into the hands of the military junta?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e1987	Let me first express some general perspective on the situation in Myanmar and on the role of the state as a majority in Telenor. What's happening in Myanmar is terrible, it's really worrying us, and it's terrible for the locals in the first place. For Telenor's part, unfortunately, there are no good solutions, no obvious answers, and the company tells us that they have had to assess and choose between alternatives that can all have serious consequences. In the public debate, some have called for more action from the state as owner, and we are among others. asked to stop the sale or intervene in how customer data is handled. As owner, we have to deal with this matter within the framework set by the Company Law and the Ownership Notice, to which the Stortinget has joined. There is a line to this government, which was followed by the previous government – which almost all governments have followed – and which there are good reasons to follow. Not least when matters are demanding, it is important that we, as owners, handle them within these frameworks. Since the coup last February, we have had twenty meetings and contact points with Telenor, where Myanmar has been the theme. In the dialogue, we have, among other things: have been concerned with how Telenor has assessed and balanced the different options. This also applies to how the company can handle its customers' concerns in the best possible way, given the situation. So to the question, and then I'd like to be completely open and clear: as owner of a telecommunications company with a subsidiary in Myanmar, we can't prevent metadata from getting into the hands of the military junta. It's a very demanding answer to give, but it's a straightforward, honest and clear answer. It is not the State as the owner to decide how the company can best deal with the situation in Myanmar. It is a matter which, under company law, falls under the responsibility of the board of directors and the management, but which we naturally follow closely. Then I want to assure the representative Elvesuen that we will do what we can to help Telenor do its utmost to limit the negative consequences of selling the business. Finally, let me also express here what I have expressed to Telenor several times: the company should, of course within the circumstances permitted, strive to be as open as possible about the balances the company makes in this difficult case. It doesn't change the reality of the matter, but hopefully it can help to create greater transparency and understanding of the situation that we're all in.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2006	I hear a concern, but no action. The smaller the owners – you can read it at Reuters at the latest today – as DNB Asset Management, who say they want to have contact and discuss how personal data should be handled. Storebrand Asset Management says they're asking for a due diligence for human rights, KLP as well. These are owners of 1.64 pst. and 1.34 pst. We have almost 59 pst. Clearly, for the 18 million customers that Telenor Myanmar has, these personal data are a direct threat. They can be used, and they will be used, by the military authorities in Myanmar. Then my question becomes: Has the Council been clear to Telenor that one who owns rather takes the loss and the risk of removing... [[President clubs]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2013	Western State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2018	I understand the question. I can assure you that there are very many assessments the company is making here, which are about far more than financial gain or financial loss. It's a very demanding situation. There are no obvious answers, obvious solutions, and almost no matter what choice Telenor takes, they could have consequences. It's like operating in a country where there's been a military coup. We just have to deal with that. I can assure the representative Elvesuen that we, as a majority shareholder, of course ask questions to the company. We've had almost 20 meetings on this topic. I have dialogue with the board of directors about this. We assure ourselves that the matter is informed, and that the company makes its own assessments in a good way, but as I said, there is no simple answer, and on the basis of the principles of ownership management and the division of roles in company law, it is the board of Telenor that manages this.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2025	I agree with that, but I would like to believe that a wise management also listens to a majority victory's clear speech, without breaking any principles of it. I wonder: after all, it is a military regime – with its law, which is completely without legitimacy. At the same time, the National Unity Government, the shadow government that also operates in Myanmar, has clearly stated that these personal data must not be transmitted. Then my question is: does the Council of State also have contact with the National Unity Government, and is it trying to support under their role as the legitimate government, which is based on a elected, legitimate government, because that is what we should strive to follow?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2034	Of course, the Norwegian Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have dialogue with many actors and parties. We have, as we know, also received a letter from Duwa Lashi La, and it will be assessed and answered in the usual way. I have to say again that the issue that concerns the matter is about the role of Telenor in Myanmar and what assessments Telenor makes. In that context, it is worth remembering that there are no simple answers to this problem. If it were so that Telenor could ensure that metadata did not go unbalanced, and withdraw in other decent ways with regard to its employees, with regard to the local population — all the considerations that you have to take under such a regime — Telenor would, of course, have chosen that way. Telenor is therefore in a very difficult situation, considering different scenarios, different situations, and we trust that the company will deal with this in the best possible way, or at least bad way, and I can again stress that we are in close dialogue with the company about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2044	‘The sale of Telenor Myanmar to the M1 Group of Lebanon is given much attention. Myanmar exile is very critical. At the same time, Telenor has filed a complaint with the OECD National Contact Point of 474 civil law organisations and with the Data Protection Authority for breaches of the GDPR. Complaints are under consideration. The Norwegian State is a majority in Telenor. In what way does the sale of Telenor Myanmar damage the reputation of the company and the Norwegian State, and has the department considered asking Telenor to put the sale on hold until it is clear whether these complaints will arise?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2051	As I stated in my answer to the question from the representative Elvesuen just, this is a serious and demanding matter. And yes, the sale of Telenor Myanmar could also have reputational consequences, but it could also have the other options. This is no simple matter. It is, as we know, a military coup in Myanmar. A military coup has very serious consequences for the local population, and it also has very serious consequences for companies, including those in the region. Telenor. There are no good solutions here, no easy solutions, no obvious answers. In this respect, I point out that Telenor has stated that the company has assessed all alternatives, and that selling the business will be the least of the bad option. In such an extreme situation, it is important that the company make thorough assessments, which we, as a majority, have also been concerned about. It is also important for the company, as far as it can be done, to show transparency about the balances they have made. Telenor has been filed with the OECD National Contact Point. That complaint is now pending, and I note that Telenor itself has stated that although the company disagrees with the criticism raised in the complaint, the company will contribute constructively to the process and support the OECD's contact point with facts and clarifications. We are, of course, satisfied with that. The complaint to the OECD National Contact Point is a good example of the dilemmas that arise. Telenor shows that it is precisely the values reflected in OECD guidelines that will be impossible for the company to comply by continuing to operate in Myanmar. And regardless of who buys the company, the new owner must comply with the laws and directives laid down by the regime. As mentioned, in the dialogue with Telenor, we have been concerned about how Telenor has assessed the different options. This also applies to the company’s decision to implement the sale. However, it is not the State that owns it, but the company's board of directors and management that has to decide on such matters. As stated above, this follows company law and recognised ownership principles. In particular on this basis, we have not asked Telenor to wait for the sale until the mentioned complaints have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2066	As the owner and main shareholder of Telenor, the State has a special responsibility to ensure that the company operates in line with data protection law and with an internationally recognised framework for responsible business activities. It is of course worrying that Telenor has now been complained to several authorities in connection with the sale of Telenor Myanmar, and that the sale seems to be made before there is clarity about whether the sale and complaints are carried out in a responsible manner. In reply to my written question submitted on 31 January, the Council of State pointed out that Telenor considered: ‘they have assessed all possibilities and believe that a sale of the establishment is the least unfavourable solution in this situation’. Does the State Council share the assessment ‘the least unfavourable solution’?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2078	Yes, as I said, according to company law, it is up to the board of every company to assess any situation, any disposition, and do what they think is best for the company. That's the way it's been under the previous government, and that's how it is under this government. So, of course, this is a particularly important thing. It affects much more than industrial policy. We're all deeply concerned about the situation in Myanmar. That's also why we've had a number of meetings with Telenor on these questions. That is why I have personally asked a number of questions to the company and the company's board of directors about the handling, and we are of course available to be involved in the assessment. But then it is the company that has to assess what they think is right. They have until now, and still believe that this is the right decision, based on the fact that there are no obvious, easy answers, and that no matter what decision you fall on, it could have negative consequences. It's unfortunately a reality, although of course we don't like the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2085	I had a meeting with Telenor yesterday and, of course, I understand that they are in a very difficult situation, but they are not alone in this matter. Reuters revealed on the weekend that the expected agreement means that there is a local conglomerate with ties to the junta that will take over as a majority victory. At the same time, we read today, as we also heard earlier in the debate here, that several Norwegian investment funds, which are owners of Telenor, are concerned about the handling of personal data for 18 million customers locally. Has the department which owns, in addition to these 20 meetings which have certainly taken place over a long period of time, been informed of the latest developments in this matter? And have any reassessments been made around the sale, now that the company is reportedly sold to a company with assumed close ties to the Junta locally in Myanmar?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2092	Yes, we have had close and good dialogue and have close and good dialogue with the Telenor regime. As I said, I myself have asked a number of questions. This matter also concerns me strongly. At the same time, it is important that we follow the law and principles of our ownership management, and I stress again: there are no obvious and simple answers. I hope I understand that there is some information related to the matter that, in the interests of Telenor's safety and employees in Telenor Myanmar's safety, we cannot now share. Then I register that the company has been asked questions from other owners. I'm glad. Any good owner should ask questions to companies in which he or she holds a holding. I can assure you that we also ask questions, and we follow the situation closely. But we have to deal with the fact that it's Telenor who made the assessments, and Telenor still assesses it so that what has the least negative effect now is going to be a sale of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2103	So now we're going to go from Myanmar to Finnmark: ‘In Repparfjord, it is clear to build up mining operations involving the destruction of moving lodges and calving areas and difficult clean-up operations. In the Fosen judgment on the wind power plant at Storheia, the Supreme Court found that the power plant itself has led to a violation of indigenous rights when it had a significant negative impact on cultural pursuit. Does the Council of State, after this judgment, consider that the permits for mining in Repparfjord are in line with the State's obligations towards the community, and if not, will the Council of State transform the permits?»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2112	Thank you for the question. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries took a decision granting the operating concession to Nussir ASA for their project for the extraction of Repparfjord copper body in February 2019. After review, the decision was maintained by the King in the Council of State in November of that year. In the assessment of the concession application, the Ministry stressed that the mining project would strengthen and develop the nutrient base in the north and make a positive contribution to the development of the community. Directly, the project will provide approximately 150 new jobs and provide industrial skills, economic growth, contribute to increased export income and increased value creation. As I answered a question earlier today, this is also part of the green shift, which would require a lot of metals and mineral deposits if we were to get ahead of it and save our climate. There is also strong local political outreach about the project. The operating concession decision made clear that the project would have an impact on the reindeer operators in this area. In order to minimise these consequences, the Ministry set out a number of remedial measures. The main ones are the requirement for the failure of the wolf lumbar spine during the calving period, i.e. from 1 May to 15 June. Another important requirement is the requirement for downgraded operation at the same site throughout the period of reindeer operation using the area. These measures were also initiated to prevent the possible closure of reindeer rentals. The remedial measures were put at the hands of the County of Finnmark, taking into account input from the reindeer grazing districts and the underlying reindeer professional report. The Ministry therefore believes that with the adjustments made, the project will not prevent or significantly reduce the reindeer performance in the district. The operating concession decision also made a thorough assessment of whether the project of Nussir ASA would conflict with Norway's international obligations, including the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, SP, Article 27. Here the Ministry assessed the impact of the project over time and the impact of past, present and future actions in the area. The Ministry assessed, inter alia: the amount of land seized by the project and the other measures in the area affecting the operation of the reindeer areas concerned. It was the overall assessment of the Ministry that the impact of the extraction, either alone or in conjunction with other measures in the areas of the reindeer districts concerned, would prevent or restrict the right to cultural exploitation to the extent that there is a breach of Article 27 of the SP. It was assessed that the decision was also not contrary to Norway’s other obligations under international law. As I said instead, access to minerals is an important prerequisite for success in the green shift. We have an ambition to contribute to the creation of the world's most sustainable mineral industry. In this work, of course, we also want to ensure social sustainability, including involvement and care for reindeer and Sami culture. I can assure the representative that Norway's international obligations underpin everything we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2131	I thank you for your answer. So after the department has done all of these assessments, we've got the Fosen judgment. So in the area around Repparfjord, there are several families like this, and that can end with reindeer drift because it will be impossible to operate a viable economical reindeer in the area. The state reindeer management, the Norwegian Reinbrutsamers Landsförbund and the Reinbeite district have said that it will be impossible to operate reindeer in the area even if there are conditions for remedial measures. SV believes that there needs to be an ongoing assessment of reindeer site interventions to prevent even more violations – now in the light of the Fosen judgment. How does the government proceed to such a review?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2136	We welcome all the good input into the work on mineral law and strategy, not least how we can jointly realize the ambition to create the world's most sustainable mineral industry. I myself have met with the Sameting, I have met with the environmental and climate movement, the industry and the social partners to get the most input into this work, so on a general basis we would like to take all good input further. Then the representative asked Fiskaa about the Fosen judgment. The Court of First Instance always takes a position on one specific matter, so I cannot comment on the significance of that judgment for any other matter. In principle, each case has to be assessed in concrete terms on an independent basis. All decisions taken by the Norwegian authorities must, as I said, comply with our obligations under international law, which is the basis of all our work. Our assessment is that the grant of an operating concession to Nussir ASA is not contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2143	Once again, I would like to thank you for your answer, and I understand that the Council of State is positive in being able to review it in order to prevent the state from going into even one click when it comes to the rights of indigenous peoples and their ability to practise culture. As the Council of State also refers to, there is a so-called green shift that can have major consequences, not least in indigenous areas. My question is: what kind of strategy does the Council of State have to be able to combine this green shift with the state taking care of the indigenous rights, which we are obliged to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2148	Thanks for the follow-up question. Only to be perfectly precise: the decision on the operating concession is final. So I said in general, that of course we accept all the input and would like to involve as many actors as possible in the work on how we can just realize a mineral strategy that takes sustainability seriously. Of course, it's not just about electrification and metals and minerals we need to cut greenhouse gas emissions, it's also about doing this in a socially sustainable way, and it's going to be economically sustainable. It has been very important for me to stress many times, and I do it again, that Norway's international obligations of course lie at the root. There should be no discussion about it. So there's a big question that's raised in the sequence exchange. I don't think there are any simple answers, but I can say that we're going into this with life and light in a proper way, precisely because we're serious, and the world's most sustainable mineral nutrition doesn't come of itself. My goal is to get the environmental movement, the combination, the industry and the parties to the same table, that we can find a strategic way together.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2157	Then your case no. End of 2
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-16.ana.ud409e2171	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
