ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e28	The representative of Mona Fagerås, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. An application for leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the representative Grunde Almeland is submitted from 9 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the commodity, Sofie Højestøl, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e53	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e58	On behalf of the Promskrittspartiet and the big-time representatives Morten Wold, Silje Hämdal, Himanshu Gulati, Sigbjørn Framnes and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to approve doctors educated in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e63	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e68	On behalf of the representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Tor André Johnsen, Silje Hemdal and myself, I regret that we have to make the following proposals: ‘The government is requesting the payment of the X Games Norway/SAHR grant of SEK 15 million as agreed in the State budget for 2022, so that it can implement the qualifications rounds and plan and implement a full-scale event when the pandemic restrictions allow.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e76	The representative, Hege Bae Nyholt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e81	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to cancel centrally given examinations in the spring of 2022 – and ask for it to be dealt with quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e86	The representative, Dag Inge Ulstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e92	On behalf of the representatives of Olaug Vervik Bollestad, Jorunn Lossius Gleditsch and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative to suspend all matters in the foreign administration that affect children.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e97	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e102	On behalf of Rauand Ismail and myself, I would like to make a proposal to pick up Norwegian children and women from detention camps in Syria.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e107	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e123	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the State Council will meet at oral Question Time Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, Foreign Minister Anniken Huitfeldt and State Councillor Tonje Brenna. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Tina Bru.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e132	Many companies are struggling to pay their electricity bill, and the Right has since December called for measures to remedy business. We have ourselves proposed a separate scheme that can be managed via the municipalities, with a framework of 2 billion. kr. The government has repeatedly said that it is following the situation closely, and it has put forward schemes for volunteering, the greenhouse industry and agriculture. But still we haven't heard anything about what the government will do for the many businesses in this country that now see their fixed costs increase far above normal due to the power prices. This comes at the top of two difficult years of pandemic. In the media, we have also seen the government owe the EEA legislation as the reason why companies cannot be supported in paying the electricity bill. Fortunately, we were told that this was not right when we sent a question to the government, to which the Minister of Industry Vestre replied. There he writes correctly that EEA law is not a fundamental obstacle to establishing incentive schemes that also cover the electricity costs of enterprises. My question to the Minister of Finance is therefore: What criteria must really be met in order that the government, with the help of the business community, will also be able to assess and follow the situation closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e143	It's nice to be here. Sometimes I think that Tina Bru should rewind a little bit to the debates we had before Christmas, because then it was round after the round from Tina Bru about why in the world the government should give priority to reducing the electricity charge. We then reduced it for January, February and March by 47 pst. Tina Bru said that for the right it was to spend 3 billion. on lower charges to lubricate measures beyond. It had no purpose and no purpose, and she was strongly critical of that type of resource use. The right chose itself to include in its alternative budget the whole change in the charging policy and to increase the charges for Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian households and all those engaged in the industry in Norway. That was the tone. When we discussed the state budget and how we were going to have the electricity policy, the tone to the Right was that it was very unwise for the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV to prioritise lower costs for Norwegian business and all households. But now you're starting to get involved in it. Then at least the Right must be very happy that it is the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV that got an impact on their fee schedule, which every day means that if you own an enterprise in Finnmark, in Hedmark, in Oslo or in Østfold, you get a lower electricity bill. Then, in the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, we have been critical of many of the grips that have been taken in power policy over time. You have to take new steps to get out more energy and bring down the power price, you can't just have a blind belief in the market. We are e.g. Very critical for the energy message Tina Bru has presented, where one is also enthusiastic about any kind of new cable connection. There we have different approaches. But in this particular situation, perhaps most of the time I got criticism from before Christmas, Tina Bru, because we just prioritised lower costs for businesses, businesses and people. So first, at least right should be grateful and happy that they didn't get through for their budget, because if the Right had got through for their budget, the electricity bill for all Norwegian companies would have been higher today, not lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e154	So the Minister of Finance's answer to business, which is now sitting and worried, is: Yes, yes, be glad that we are the boss, even if we don't want to come with help. That's what the Minister of Finance is really saying here. I hear no concern and no desire to actually do anything about the situation. That's why the Minister of Finance might want to spend more time talking about completely different things, because the government has no intention of dealing with business. I am not so sure whether the reduction in the electricity charge is a very good comfort for example. Modum glass industry, which has got its electricity costs increased from NOK 60000 to NOK 460000. It goes without saying that it's quite demanding. Another example is Ålgård Offset, which is a printery in my home state, which is now expected to double its electricity costs if this persists. Employees are concerned about their jobs – obviously the Minister of Finance is not the same. But if the finance minister agrees that this is worrying, why is he not worried enough to actually do something about it, instead of just talking about what the Right did in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e163	Just because we already saw in the harvest that with the political grips that had been done over time, this would be a big challenge with electricity, was one of the first priorities the government had to reduce the charges on electricity. The party that was most opposed to us reducing the charges on electricity was right. So I understand that it may be tiring for the Right that we point out that before Christmas, when we adopted the budget, they thought that measures that could help business were very unwise. But that's a fact. The right even took out the small fee they had paid themselves, because they thought you would not use it anyway. So if the Right Order had been adopted, it would have been even worse for Norwegian businesses, small businesses and people who are worried. As a responsible politician, even if you are in opposition, you have to take responsibility for that – that is what the Right proposed. Then we have announced, both in the government statement and through the state budget, that we want to take action to bring costs down on electricity, among other things. with tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e168	It opens for follow-up questions – first Tina Bru.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e173	I understand that I am not going to get a proper answer to this. I just have to assume that the government doesn't want to set up with any support for business. It is at least quite clear from the answers given by the Minister of Finance here. I would also point out that it does not help that business now has an increased tax burden as a result of a new government. It's also a fact. This reduction in the electricity charge will not be enough to pay for it, at least not in view of the current prices we see now. However, on 13 October, the European Commission presented a toolbox of measures by Member States and Norway can use to remedy electricity prices. The Toolbox contains, among other things: support to consumers and businesses. The Minister of Economic Affairs replied to me on 27 January that EEA law does not in principle prevent the establishment of aid schemes. Can the Minister of Finance here and now confirm that it is the Western Council that correctly reproduces the space for action in the EEA Agreement, as opposed to the colleague of the Council of State, Minister of Agriculture Sandra Borch, who said that it is the EEA that does not allow other businesses to receive support? So, it's not the EEA that makes the government not want to set up, it's just the government that doesn't want to set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e180	I understand that it is unpleasant for Tina Bru from the Right to be reminded of his own policy, and that the reality is that the power price had been higher and not lower with Right Policy. I can challenge Bru: Is she happy that the Right did not get a pass on higher electricity charges before Christmas? Is she happy that the Right proposal was voted down, or does she think it was a good one? I am very pleased that the Right's proposal on electricity prices was voted down, because it would just have made the costs even higher. What has been the big political change after the government change is that the previous government said at the beginning of its reign that they had a measure of higher power prices. At the beginning of its reign, this government has said that it has a target of lower power prices. We've done several things already and are going to do more, just to reduce the cost of businesses, businesses and people, because we believe it's very important that an energy-rich country like Norway has an energy policy that benefits you and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e187	Tina Bru – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e192	I still stand for everything we said before Christmas, and believe that it was a proper priority, for what we did instead of lubricating the 3 billion. kr thinly, was to use them in a much more targeted way that would suit households more in terms of electricity prices. But my next question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have now seen several examples of the fact that state councils are misrepresenting the space for action in the EEA Agreement, as a pretext for not doing things, for example. with regard to wage support, within animal welfare and now – but not least – electricity support for enterprises. What I'm asking is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned that trust and the conclusion of the EEA Agreement can be undermined because of the way some of her colleagues push it in front of them, time and time again, to avoid acting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e200	The answer is no. On the other hand, I am very concerned about how the Right wanted to practice the space for action in the EEA Agreement and not to use it when Norwegian interests are at stake. Therefore, we need to carry out an EEA investigation to see how we can use this space for, among other things. to take care of Norwegian employees’ interests. It's an investigation that Right doesn't want to welcome, but which I think is very important in the current situation. So no, I'm not worried. I am much more concerned about the conclusion of the EEA Agreement when the Right Rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e207	Alfred Jens Bjørlo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e212	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Finance. It does not seem that the Minister of Finance and Government understand the desperate situation of many small and medium-sized enterprises now facing a power crisis at the top of a long-term corona crisis. As former spokespersons, I come from a political culture where one is used to solving big tasks together. My impression of government crisis management so far, whether it involves omicron or high power prices, is that the government governs under the principle of 'we know only'. With it they come constantly behind and get for good reasons constant criticism. Measures and tools come late, they don't hit, and good ideas from the opposition are shot down and parked or passed in silence. So I'm asking, with the extent of the current crisis now, it's not time to accept invitations from the opposition to sit down in layers and find solutions, and for example take seriously the very concrete suggestions of the Left in 1 billion. kr extra on the table now as a first immediate measure to small businesses such as wear with high power bills?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e221	Tina Bru from the Right finally confirmed that she was happy that she had not been able to benefit from a lower charge, so it was to lubricate things thinly. The left also went with life and light towards lower charges on electricity. Lower electricity charges involve a large and significant amount for businesses – a total fee of 3 billion. kr. That's why it feels very strange when the Left now says we're coming nagging after, because before Christmas they were strongly opposed to us doing the grip that helped business. They thought it was to lubricate things thinly. It was not those who came with the insurance scheme that helped households, it was an initiative from the government, just to do that kind of grip to help households. So the big grips that have been done have not come because of the Left – they have come despite the Left. And the one great grip that also dampens the accounts for business, voted against the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, because it was thought that there was unwise use of resources. Then Bjørlo and Bjørlos co-representatives also thought it was stupid that Norwegian companies should receive lower fees. We thought it was wise for Norwegian companies to get lower electricity charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e228	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e233	This winter most of us experience that purchasing power is weakened as a result of extreme price increases on a number of necessities. Power prices have gone to heaven and stay at a high level. The fuel prices have already passed NOK 20 litres and will be able to continue upward. Food prices have increased, and we received new adjustments on 1 February. The interest rate has increased and is likely to continue to increase. In addition, the government, together with SV, has provided significant tax incentives for employees and enterprises in 2022. Most are affected by this, and purchasing power is reduced. Most of all, this affects the economy and the well-being of people and families with ordinary and low incomes. At the same time, extraordinary income flows into the treasury. The oil price has set a record in Norwegian kroner, the gas price is record high, and the electricity prices help to make the country and many states and municipalities much richer. Yesterday we heard from the NVE that the power prices will stay at a very high level during the summer and into the next winter. The government's power package is not close to compensating for people's increased costs and is also only temporary. On the guard of the new government, the population is getting poorer, while the state is getting richer. Now LO with the Joint Association in the head announces increased salary demands if the government does not provide significantly more power support. In this case, there will be an additional cost for enterprises at the top of increased tax burden and other cost increases. The government can contribute to a more moderate wage settlement without interfering directly with the wage settlement by using these extraordinary revenues to improve the purchasing power of ordinary people. What means will the Minister of Finance use to avoid the spring wage-fixing of all moderate circumstances and shift a significant extra cost to businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e244	It's like that over 80 pst. by people in Norway receive lower or unchanged tax in 2022 than they received with the budget that the Progress Party contributed to adopt for 2021. So it should be great to Hans Andreas Limi from the Progress Party that the large, large majority of the population, thanks to the fact that it became a new majority and a new budget for 2022, receives lower or unchanged taxes. In terms of electricity, the electricity charge was at its highest when it was Siv Jensen who was Minister of Finance, and it is at its lowest now – because we got a new price, because we thought it was right to reduce the cost of electricity. The year it was a real wage cut was 2016, when the Progress Party with Siv Jensen also crashed. The reason we prioritised tax cuts for those with low and medium incomes was precisely because we're concerned that group over time will get better purchasing power. When we also, for example, have strengthened the commuting allowance as much as we have done, because we are concerned that those who have high travel costs in connection with work should experience that they are not penalised because they have to travel a long way to work and that costs are reduced. When we made priorities and made sure that the ferry prices would go down where there are high ferry costs, it was just so that the travel costs would not be too high. When it's going to be free ferries quite a lot of places, in the smallest island communities, during the year, it's also because we want to get the costs for them with low and medium incomes down. We also need to pursue a tax policy that balances differences. So ordinary workers get lower tax pressure in the coming year. Those who are dependent on a lot of transport, e.g. commuters will experience a lower overall tax burden. We have also started a new course in electricity policy, for the course the Progress Party had, was a course for higher charges. We have a course for lower charges, and therefore the fees are, for example, on current almost 47 pst. less now than when it was run on the basis of the budget of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e257	I record that the Minister of Finance really does not answer my question, but has a rather questionable history description that I should really just leave. But I will quote Jørn Eggum, who is the leader of the Joint League. He says to VG: «The power package is simply too bad. I've been counting on it: it was only 25–35 percent of people's total bill that was covered in December." He continues to point out that this is a serious problem for the members of the Joint Union, but not just for them, it is a serious problem for most people that purchasing power is greatly reduced due to increased prices of a number of necessities. In addition, the government has helped to increase taxes and to increase taxes. My question then is to the Minister of Finance: does he think this is entirely right, or does the government intend to use the means available to help make it possible for the social partners to land a moderate wage settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e269	I understand that the representative Limi doesn't like that I'm telling the story that's right, because it doesn't fit into the picture of the Progress Party. But it's true that about 80 pst. is taxed less or unchanged this year than last year. It is a fact, and it was a political priority. We said in the election campaign that those who had lower incomes than NOK 750,000 would experience that there were tax and tax charges. It is true that those who depend on driving a lot, e.g. In the context of work, we get a lower overall tax burden, because we increase the amount of commuting. It is a political priority, which then helps ordinary workers around Norway. And it's true that we, as the government, said from day one that our goal is to reverse a power policy that has led to higher power prices, and it's after eight years of FrP government, or seven years of FrP government and one year of Right Rule, that we inherited that problem. So we've started doing a lot of grips and we're going to do even more to get the power price down.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e274	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Hans Andreas Limi.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e279	I believe to remember that in the years that the Progress Party put in government, we had a record low power price. But I note that the Minister of Finance is still pointing backwards. My question is: what does the Minister of Finance and the Government think about doing in the future, if he looks a little bit into the windscreen and not just in the rearview mirror? There is then a question of whether the Minister of Finance is concerned about the signals now coming from the large federations, because they clearly do not feel the government's policy and the government's instruments are sufficient. And it's clear that the Minister of Finance has tools in his toolbox to help us get a moderate payroll and not increase the cost to businesses. The Minister of Finance has the opportunity to propose reduced taxes, he has the opportunity to do something about the tax regime and not follow the SV, which has announced that the taxes will be raised further. So my question, once again, to the finance minister is: has he planned any action, or is he just concerned about looking back in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e289	I'm concerned about the reality here and now, and because there's been a government change, the tax for people who earn less than 750,000 kroner is going to be lower. For the large population, it is either equal or lower tax. Then there's a fact here and now that after we inherited a record high fee level, for example. on electricity, the charging level is now lower. And then it's a fact – when Limi now boasts that there was a low electricity price at the beginning of the Progress Party period – that the Council of State of the Advance Party said he was tired of low power prices, and we have quite the opposite goal. So we're going to do a bunch of grips, but the grips are going to be about people who have lower and middle incomes to notice that there's a government that sees them. If you're a commuter, you should notice that it's now being made a grip to make commuting easier. If you have an income of between 500 000 and 600 000 kroner, you will experience that the tax penalties that come will make your everyday life easier. And when we look at the power packs, the Progress Party proposed in December that we pay NOK 4000 in support per household. Fortunately, that arrangement was not adopted, because our insurance scheme helps more, but we are going to do even more to help people in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e298	Roy Steffensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e303	Already in the fall, the Progress Party proposed major tax reliefs, including: the removal of electricity taxes and VAT on electricity, and we proposed a reduction of the petrol and diesel tax of NOK 3. Unfortunately, our proposals were voted down. We are now on the way out of a pandemic that has driven businesses and employees, while experiencing increased interest rates, increased electricity prices, increased petrol prices, increased food prices – which the Minister of Agriculture believes are not high enough. The solution from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV was the largest tax increases of 20 years, and SV has already announced that they should be further increased. Now that we see the total of increased food prices, increased electricity prices, increased petrol prices and increased interest rates, does the Council of State still think it was right half a year ago to impose on the country the largest tax increases of 20 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e310	I think it was absolutely right that we gave tax and tax cuts to people who had ordinary and middle incomes. That's what we went to elections on. About 80 pst. the population receives less or equal tax this year than last year. The large group receives lower taxes. I think that was a perfectly correct priority. Those with the highest income get a little higher tax. I think that's also true. We did a repriority from those who have the strongest back, to those who go to work every day, those who have to commute far, those who take the ferry, those who take the train to Oslo. All those who do everyday jobs experience that they are going to get lower tax levels and better deductions. When it comes to fees, we experienced them every time, for example. on electricity, that when the Progress Party had power, they increased the fees time and time again. They were high-recorded under Siv Jensen. We put them down right away. We're going to do more, because we're concerned that ordinary people in ordinary houses are going to experience that everyday life is getting simpler, not harder, and we're going to do more work to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e319	Roy Steffensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e324	It is good to hear that action is to be taken to make everyday life easier. I read in the newspaper yesterday about companies that are part of the deferred tax and tax system, who have not experienced it easier if they have forgotten to pay by the deadline. In total, it was approx. 10 000 enterprises that have applied for deferral of about 4 billion. kr. This scheme turns out to be very little flexible. If you do not pay by the agreed deadline, the entire amount will be due within 14 days, and there is no chance of getting back into this scheme. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make this scheme more flexible, or is the objective of the State to act as a loan shark from American mafia films?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e333	The state is not acting like any loan shark from American mafia films. It's a funny expression, it's for the representative, but the state doesn't. We've done some grips. I understand that it is very difficult for many of the companies that have been partially shut down, have had restrictions on their business, have had trouble with it over time. That is why we have also taken a number of measures. One of the measures that was much in demand from enterprises that went around Christmas was whether they could get a little lower interest rates when subjecting tax claims. In contrast to when the Progress Party formed a majority with the previous government, we set the interest rate down – we saw them, and we helped. It's going to be demanding. We also know that in that transition from support and compensation schemes to normal everyday life, some businesses are going to be tough, but we have to be very happy that we are now opening up, and that over time we have to phase out the various support and compensation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e342	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e347	If we're going to reduce differences in Norway and improve people's purchasing power, we also have to redistribute more. Norway is a very good country to be rich in and engage in business, as may have been the case in the questionnaire up to now. We have a greater density of rich and super rich people than, for example, U.S.A. Norway continues to be on top ten lists of the world’s most nutritious places. Although the richest people in Norway pay a lower tax rate than normal people, we are constantly complaining from some of the richest people in the country who believe that they are being taxed in their entirety. Some of them also escape with their money, which they have often earned on the basis of Norwegian infrastructure, highly productive Norwegian labour, the Norwegian education system, the Norwegian health care system, the Norwegian community. It is not possible to live in Norway, we heard from property investor Kjartan Aas, when he moved. Five years after emigration, unrealised gains that have been accumulated in Norway over many years can be realised without taxing them to Norway. This is a much larger tax advantage than for example. the tax on wealth avoided. The government says they want to pursue a fairer tax policy than the previous government did, but the policy is undermined by the fact that billionaires run away with money that should happen to the community. Will the Minister of Finance do anything to close this gap, to ensure that gains on shares in Norway will in any case be taxed? Will the government consider imposing a proper exit tax on large assets, as suggested by economist Thomas Piketty, so that the assets are taxed at the moment they are moved out, and not least to prevent tax refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e356	I can't believe anyone wants to move from what we're so happy about in Norway. It is a brilliant country to live in and operate in. We've also seen in recent years that it's one of the best countries in the world to be rich in, and that it's one of those countries where most people are able to build up wealth and very high wealth. Then, of course, we can't force people to live here either. If you want to move, we can't force. We get to go into the different issues SV alerts, if there are any obvious things you can look at. But initially, what we are concerned about in tax policy – and which I also believe we got together with SV before Christmas, when we made a clear priority – is that there are ordinary people with ordinary incomes who are going to get tax reliefs, while those with high incomes and greater wealth have to contribute a little more. Of course, it's always a dilemma that those who have the greatest assets are also the most mobile ones, so you have to look at both nationally and internationally what kind of tax cooperation you can get, and how to avoid having too many tax havens, which are not desirable either. In general, however, we must have a tax system in Norway which we believe is adapted to Norwegian circumstances. At least the Center Party, together with the Workers' Party – before Christmas also together with SV, which I was very pleased with – believes that it was wise to take action that created a stronger redistribution, and that people who have ordinary and middle incomes got tax cuts, no matter how many times the Right Party and the Advance Party say the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e363	It's true that we're not going to force people to stay home in Norway, but today we have holes in our tax system that are a direct incentive to move out with big fortunes. Researcher at the Norwegian School of Business, Ole-Andreas Elvik Næss, writes about this in Today's Business Today. He points out that Dæhli's company, Sisa Invest, has a retained earnings of 439 million. kr, and if such an amount is realised in Norway, he must pay about 100 million. kr in tax. In comparison, he only paid $4 million. SEK in taxes on wealth in 2020. If you have a real fortune of about 13 billion. kr and realises the share gain in Norway, gives it more than 4 billion. kr in tax. With five years in Switzerland, you get rid of it, and you can move back without having to pay taxes on the realised gain. In this way, income taxes are excluded, and you can do it to a large extent so that children and grandchildren will also be able to go through life without taxes. Will not the government take more steps to seal this huge tax haven?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e371	First of all, I can't begin to deal with individuals from the Parliament's pulpit. Fortunately, we do not have a system in Norway where we discuss the taxes of individuals, other than at a heading level — that is not possible. But we have to keep looking at whether there are obvious tax gaps and weaknesses in the system that cause us to get a biased distribution and unfairness against ordinary workers who go to work every day and pay 30 pst. or 40 pst. taxes and duties. It's a job for every government all the time, so that we get the widest possible tax base and through the widest possible tax base, we can get the lowest possible rates for those who have normal and medium income. That's what the government has as its goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e376	There will be follow-up questions – first Kari Elisabeth Kaski.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e381	It's true that we don't have to deal with individuals' tax levels from the Stockholm pulpit, but it serves as an example of how huge the tax holes are. These are also individuals who have taken a very active role in the Norwegian social debate and have asked for lower taxes. They show here that it is very easy to avoid that tax bill, not to contribute to the community, nor to push on to get both lower taxes and increased support for business rather than to contribute to a fairer tax system. Unfortunately, missing exit tax is only one of several holes in the Norwegian tax system. Today's Business has also revealed that there are extensive hidden ownership of Norwegian properties, among others. in major infrastructure such as port facilities and wind farms. Several decisions have put the Norwegian ownership register in place to be completed as soon as possible, and that property information obligations are also to be investigated when buying property, so that the purchase of property is properly registered. The government has promised to introduce a fully-fledged ownership register, but it is still not in place. When does the full ownership register come?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e388	The Workers' Party-Center Party government also announced on the Hurdal platform that we are committed to ensuring national ownership. We have also increased national ownership of natural resources, small power and such investments over time, which are increasingly not only national but also foreign ownership. I'm very concerned about it. One thing is what the representative Kaski promises here, with registers, but it can also be different in legislation we have to look at to ensure national ownership and local value creation of natural resources. There has been some of the great strength in Norway that one has always been aware of having a law that has brought the greatest possible value back to the communities that have resources and to the nation as a community. Kaski brings up a few examples of things you can look at and do something about. I believe that we also need to look at several things in the concession law in order to ensure that we have the great natural resources as much joy as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e393	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e398	I thank you for the answer, but I couldn't quite hear the answer to my question. The size has decided that the full ownership register will soon be put in place. The regulation presented by the previous government, from the right-wing government, was deficient in this way, for it did not follow up the overall committee comments of the Storting, when the Storting dealt with that matter. Among other things, a good deal of demands and leads are now being made that are at European level but are not in line with what the Storting has said about being a country in the first place here. For example, the threshold for ownership in order to be registered as real owners has been set too high. What today's business case reveals and illustrates is that a limit of 25 pst. ownership is really worthless, all the time you can own and be real owner with much less ownership and thus own important infrastructure in Norway from tax havens, which we do not know about. We do not know who owns kindergartens, ports or, for that matter, renewable energy installations because of the deficiencies. When is it going to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e405	I can assure the representative Kaski that this is a problem we are very concerned about. The problem is who owns Norway, and how do we get an overview of it? One thing is registers, another thing is what law you can have in the future that makes you not only have it registered, but also that you can ensure and also stimulate that it becomes more local and national ownership. One thing is to have an overview, but another thing is the property regulations that make sure that it's especially within natural resources, land, forest, AS we have the different discussions, and that you look at what kind of dirthole it is in the law. The law at the bottom is quite clear that you want it to be national and local ownership. Here we are going to follow up, from several governments and in several areas. It is good that you have the kind of things that that Today's Business has promised, in order to find out how important this issue is.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e410	Kari Elisabeth Kaski – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e415	One of the concrete things that you can actually do right now is put in place property transfer property disclosure obligations. Today, there is reason to believe that property is owned in Norway in billions of tax havens. That way, we don't know who owns them, but that's the way you obviously avoid taxing. Much of the reason that you can own property in Norway through tax havens is that we don't have an obligation to disclose property. You can use so-called blanks. Will the government follow up the budget agreement as quickly as possible and put in place a duty to disclose things so that we can put a stop to the big tax haven we have today, which is property investment from tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e420	We're going to go into the width of this problem. Now Kaski has raised some issues, and I have raised others. The first thing we have to do is evaluate which grip is most effective. We very much agree with the political objective between the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, that of course you should have private property rights, private ownership. It's very important for the government, maybe a little bit of different shades, but at the bottom is that you have to have it. However, legislation must also ensure that national and local hands are as much as possible. It has been part of property policy since Norway became free in 1905, that it had a mix of national and local, and that is the policy we have to pursue in the future. We will follow that from several departments, including legislation, and come back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e425	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e431	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Today we can rejoice that the freestyle rider Birk Ruud became the Olympic champion in the Big Air competition in the Olympics in Beijing. This year's the first time it's an OL exercise. Birk Ruud has won big sports competitions in the past. He's twice the champion of X Games, once in Aspen and once, in 2018, here at Fornebu – and is a great inspiration, as X Games are, too much self-organized youth. We need the width to get the top, and we need the top to get the width. I'm not going to ask the Minister of Finance about sports policy, but I'm going to ask about the state budget. X Games Norway is allocated 15 million. kr in the State budget for 2022, it is Chapter 315, entry 86. Now the government has decided, and sent over to X Games Norway, that they're withdrawing the 15 million. kr – despite the fact that the rationale for the award is precisely to provide predictability for the event, in order to build their national and international positions. It was allocated in the draft budget in October. There was no change in the additional position presented by the Minister of Finance to the Stortingen in the autumn. It has not been the subject of the Committee on Finance's consideration of the State budget or the consideration of the State budget by the Family and Culture Committee. But now, a month and a half after the budget has been adopted, the government comes and says no, they won't award it anyway – despite the fact that the budget is legally binding on the government. Then my question becomes to the Minister of Finance: Will the Minister of Finance make sure that the government allocates 15 million. kr to X Games Norway, which the government has decided, in line with the laws and regulations we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e442	Last June, the Central Party launched me as a Prime Minister's candidate, and then there was a bit of turmoil and dismay around it, but in the Questionnaire now I get questions about absolutely all the constitutional areas, and I've probably already been a long way out of my constitutional area as Minister of Finance. I think I'm going to be a little bit careful with going into the exact reason for the X Games. I understand that the representative Elvestuen has also sent a question to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality about it, so that he can get a proper and good reason. I have not dealt with this matter directly. Therefore, I would rather come back to it when I have seen the assessment of the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality in this area. I am, like the representative Elvesuen, very pleased with that OL gold. I think it's quite violent to look at, and I'm jealous when I run sloppy, every time, of the sight of these huge jumps. So the commitment, the enthusiasm, the joy over the sport, over the sport, over the OL gold I share 100 pst., but I just have to ask that the written question that the representative Elvesuen – it has been told me at least – has sent to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, can be answered, because then he gets a proper and really good reason. Then I'd better get back to it when I read that answer, because it's in the Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e451	But the Minister of Finance is responsible for the budget and the follow-up to the budget. This is not about me having a justification from the Minister of Culture. This is about the fact that if the government does not follow the budgetary decision that has been taken, the government has in fact closed down X Games – contrary to the justification for the budget allocation, in violation of the budget decision of the Stortinget and without having been back and obtained a majority in favour of this in the Stortinget. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to follow up, and it is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to follow up the decisions we are making here, also followed up by the government. It is not done in this case. It does not help if the Minister of Finance is enthusiastic about the sport if he does not follow up the Storting decision to support it, but instead agrees that it will end.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e456	It's incredibly important and right that we have a great commitment to different budget lines in the Storting. It's natural for you to have it. So it also makes sense sometimes that once a written question has been sent, you can give a proper answer back, because there are many treatments. I look at the former Minister of Culture and Gender Equality, and I don't know if he's nodding or worried, but the point is that here a question has been sent to the current Minister of Culture and Gender Equality. She's going to answer properly, and we're going to look at the answer she's coming up with on behalf of the government, and then we might get to follow it up if there's any uncertainty about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e461	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e466	After more than 100 days and a first budget, it should be possible to see a clear direction in government education policy – the challenges to be addressed, the ambitions for students and school – but so far it is difficult to see the project. It is fine that the government will implement the Right election promise for a secondary school reform, but in what direction will the Labour Party take the school policy? There is talk of a reform of trust that no one knows what you are. The big money is spent on school leisure and freezing an old school structure. The most concrete thing that has come from the government has been to reverse measures taken by the government of Solberg to raise the quality and content of school, measures to contribute to learning joys and increased implementation. An extra science class in high school is cut. The skills requirements of teachers trained before 2014 have been reversed. Further training for teachers in Norwegian, English and mathematics is cut. The only career path for teachers who wish to continue to teach, the teacher-specialist scheme, shall be terminated from the next harvest. It shall no longer be possible to establish vocational and profile schools as real-time vocational schools and the absence limit has been dropped until the next harvest. The sum of this is that the government prioritises actions that bring up and down knowledge. My question to the Minister of Education is: Has the government assessed the consequences for the students by eliminating the requirements of competence, prioritising further training in the basic subjects and cutting down the teacher-specialist system?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e477	I think the former minister of knowledge, Mr Sanner, is a little frustrated by me and the government – frustrated by the fact that we haven't talked about school food and waste for the first 100 days, frustrated that we've done what we've promised before, that's to keep focusing on knowledge. The goal is for kids in Norwegian school to learn more, and my goal as a Minister of Knowledge is to help remove the obstacles, which means that every student today does not learn and have its full potential exploited. That is why we have said quite clearly that we need to strengthen the common school. That's why we're saying we're going to hire more teachers. We need to strengthen the team around the student. We will continue to develop the provision of continuing training. And we're going to do something very important that at least I've missed a lot in the last eight years: we're going to widen the concept of knowledge. Where the bourgeois government consistently believed that knowledge belonged to a few subjects, we say that knowledge is something that happens in every subject, and learning is done in every subject. I don't stop to be surprised by the bourgeois parties, who think it's kind of not as good to learn about angles in the loop, or to practice reading in food and health when you read recipes. I believe that different children need different ways to unfold. That's why we're going to work to make school more practical and varied for all our kids. It also requires us to use the large resources where most of the kids go, namely in primary school. That's why we say no to what citizens have been doing for eight years, namely setting up a new private school in the month. We rather believe that we should spend the money where students go, in common school, which is the most important instrument we have for people to live good lives, too much trust in society and for opportunities for individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e488	There is no disagreement about learning in all disciplines, but reading, writing and calculating are basic skills and a key to the other subjects – in history, in secret, and in other subjects, these are the basic skills. What was an important project in our reign was to raise the teaching profession, at five-year-old masters, by raising the requirements for getting in, by making skills demands, by making more resources available for further education. We did that because we know that the teacher is the most important thing for children's learning, and there were several qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms, fewer students per teacher and more competence. So my question, which the Council of State did not answer, is: Have you evaluated the impact on students and students' learning when you now reverse and lower the requirements, among other things. to teachers by removing the competence requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e493	The answer to that is yes. The most important people we have in Norwegian school are the students, and the most important people are completely dependent on good and motivated teachers. That's why it's still a little strange for me to hear that the basic skills in the Right's opinion are not something you practice in other subjects than the very subjects that have the same name as what is described in the Basic Skills. It's good to read in subjects other than language, it's good to do practical mathematics in subjects other than mathematics, and it's good that the subjects work together in addition to each other. Therefore, we spread the offer to continuing education by doubling the number of places on the practical and aesthetic subjects. We continue to have a good provision of continuing training, and we want different students to be able to learn in different ways in different subjects, together with motivated and competent teachers – which we also leave separate, because experienced teachers deserve our respect and recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e498	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e503	What the Council of State says now is not right. I established the new curricula through the innovation, and there are the basic skills to read, write and calculate in most subjects. So there's no disagreement that the other subjects are important, and that you can learn to read in other subjects. But these are the basic skills, and that's why we've had our own priority of reading, writing and calculating, both through intensive training and through the priority of continuing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e509	If there's no disagreement about this, I honestly don't understand why the question is repeated. We're concerned with more knowledge in school, and we're dedicated to strengthening the school. One of the most important things we do to be able to employ more teachers, for example, is to strengthen the local economy. Where we do more than double the increase the previous government added. This will allow more municipalities to hire more teachers. So I'm concerned that we continue to strengthen that part of the school where most of the students go, and that's the primary school. The bourgeois government created about one new private school in the month as long as they sat. I believe that the most important tool we have for everyone to live a good life, get a good start in life and be a participant in work and work later is education and school. That is why I also believe that it is a political responsibility to do so. We do this best by strengthening the community school, strengthening the community economy so that we can hire more teachers, get more people into kindergarten and make sure that all kids can succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e516	Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e521	The Minister of Knowledge says that several subjects should become practical and varied, but this certainly applies to all subjects other than Norwegian, math and English, because in Norwegian, math and English you cut the qualifications of teachers, so that they do not get depression. The number of teachers to be further trained in Norwegian, math and English is cut. And that's a paradox, because in the evaluation of further education, teachers in, for example, tell us. Norwegian, math and English that what they get back for it is that they change the teaching method. Professional updates allow you to teach in different ways and to adapt your teaching better. Indeed, it is up-to-date teachers who are the key to more motivating teaching. Therefore, it is strange that the first government did, not to strengthen further education in other subjects, but to cut further training of teachers in Norwegian, math and English. Since the Council of State started its government project to cut down on further training of teachers in Norwegian, math and English, I wonder if the Council of State can mention another measure that is more effective in ensuring motivating Norwegian, math and English education than continuing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e526	I am absolutely sure that teachers will also want further training, without detailed demands from a State Council office in Oslo. This has been demonstrated by Norwegian teachers with full strength in recent years, and I am sure that will continue. The difference is that they themselves, together with their employer and their colleagues, should now be involved in defining the subjects in which they need continuing training. This means that a math teacher who wants to work more effectively and in different ways with mathematics can choose to take training in practical subjects, simply because when the subjects work together, you have more opportunity to work in practice and vary with the subjects. It's an artificial problem that's being pulled up. Norwegian teachers have shown for very many years that they are busy filling up with their own skills. Now we say more clearly that we trust that they themselves know best what they need, and we continue the strong commitment to continuing training, also in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e533	High Bae Nyholt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e538	Relationships are the basis for learning, and the relationship in Norwegian school that is perhaps the most important is between the teacher and the student – and then we have a part of that relationship a little further out. But the Norwegian school needs more teachers. We have a reserve of approx. 40,000 people with teacher training who do not work within the school. Especially north of the country, there is such a big problem that some municipalities have gone out and offered bonus schemes to get teachers to live in their municipalities, which is very unfortunate, given that not all municipalities have finances for it. Making sure to recruit enough teachers and not least ensure that they are in the profession is important for the Norwegian school and to ensure the quality of education in the coming years. So my question to the Council of State is, what action will she and the government take in the future to ensure just this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e545	I thank you for a very important question. I think if the undersigned had the simple answer to that question, we would certainly have solved the challenge a long time ago. It's a common desire, I experience, from the whole of the Great Britain and also from the government, that we should hire more teachers, and we have a common goal that more people should apply for teacher training. I think part of this is about how we can do better to work in Norwegian school. It's about time. Individual teachers must have time to conduct good training. Then I think we need to strengthen the team around the student, so that more professionals come in and the teachers can be just teachers. I think it's about trust, that we have to show our teachers that they have educational freedom, that they have room to solve the mission as they think it best to solve. I think it's also about strengthening the community economy, so the teachers who are there today can get more colleagues and thus also have more to discuss the profession with and more to share the tasks. So we have to do several things at once, one of those things is to make it better for those who are already in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e554	High Bae Nyholt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e559	I thank you for your answer. We know that children and young people have been hit hard in the almost two years of pandemic, and just that strengthening the team around the student is repeated, both by my side and by others. It's very important. These include: on the inclusion of other groups of professionals in school and the strengthening of the PP service. We know that they today have document bases that are so large that they do not fully know how to get through them, and that both children, parents and schools are waiting for clarification. Not least, it's about exactly what the Council of State was about, that is, giving teachers more time. One of the groups that have given a clear and clear signal that they want more time is the contact teachers. They describe that they don't have time to follow up the students they see have challenges, and they want to spend time on, in conversations, meetings, etc. Will the Council of State ensure that contact teachers have more time to follow up their students?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e568	I wish I had a magic box of time that I could distribute to the country's contact teachers. Fortunately, I'm part of a government that doesn't have a magic box, but a government budget that has strengthened the municipal economy, such as the government budget. has been able to contribute to the conclusion by the KS and the teacher organisations of an agreement that the contact teachers should be given double contact learning time. I'm very happy about that. I think that part of the frustration and despair we are now seeing in the back and towards the end of the pandemic was already in school. It has been like a magnifying glass or a spotlight on challenges that existed in the Norwegian school, and having time to solve the mission is an essential part of it. That is why I am pleased that we have teachers who are well organized, so I am glad that we have many municipalities that are involved in this, and I hope and believe that the parties in the meantime will also work through the agreements they have, with solutions that allow each contact teacher to have even more time with each student.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e575	Abid Raja – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e581	We've suggested spending $300 million. kr in summer school to remedy the consequences of the pandemic. Last week the Council of State and the government rejected our concrete proposal for a solution with summer school for 2022. Nor have we seen any major, concrete solutions to the challenges at school, or an increase in transfers to municipalities. The government is rather concerned with reversing everything it comes through: reverse teachers' qualifications, reverse income requirements for teacher students, reverse county reforms, counter the rights of in-house nurseries and counter the possibilities of running private kindergartens. The government is so busy with reversals that they simply don't have time to investigate and propose new, their own policy for enhanced school education. It's sad for the students and teachers in school that this government is basically a gray and boring reverse government. Does the government at all intend to put its own policies in the field of the Council of State, and – if so – when will it come?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e590	I think I'm going to take it as a compliment that the representative Raja thinks we're a gray and boring bunch. It would be more worrying if he had gone and said he would vote for us. I don't think the teachers I meet, who say they're happy that we're stopping the separation of teachers educated before 2014, think we're reverse or we're gray and boring. I think they, on the contrary, feel that we meet them with respect. I think the students we're talking to, who feel that we're strengthening the common school, both through budgets and priorities, feel that it's positive. I think I'm going to repeat what I've said from this pulpit earlier on the question of summer school, by quoting the Parr report, which has been some of the things that lay the basis for how we make sure to strengthen our response to the schools after the pandemic. I quote: ‘Schools were already in the process of summer holidays when the grant was paid, and therefore it became difficult to prepare summer schools at such short notice.’ I think maybe the parties from the previous government should be a little careful to say that summer school is the only blessing. Rather, we need to strengthen the good work that is already in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e604	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e609	I want to start by congratulating the Minister of Knowledge on her first almost 4 months in this important job. This time has also illustrated what is most important to this government. Time and again, it has focused on who owns schools or kindergartens, instead of focusing on the content and quality of services and the provision of those attending school or kindergartens. The government has gone to war against private kindergartens, carried out large cuts and announced further tightening, although we know that private kindergartens on average have higher satisfaction and lower sick leave than municipal kindergartens. The government has also gone to war against colleges and stopped all new applications for new schools pending a new law that they say should make it more difficult to start new profiling schools. The Minister of Knowledge has led an ideological course towards private rather than focusing on the overall quality and content of Norwegian schools and kindergartens. Unfortunately, we have seen the same thing from this government in other areas. It has e.g. to abolish free treatment options, which provide patients with access to free surgery in, for example: private actors. So what's the result? Well, that's an increase in social inequality. This is a reintroduction of the wallet as a basis for sending your children to private schools or receiving treatment in private hospitals. For who is it that can be treated in private hospitals if the State does not cover the treatment? They're the ones with the biggest wallet. Who in the future can send their children to private schools if there are fewer new hospitals in the country? Yes, they are the richest parents. I wish Council of State Brenna showed more interest in raising the overall quality and content of the school and kindergarten sector instead of focusing on and spending her time fighting private actors. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: with the exception of pandemic-related adaptations – what hearings has she sent out, and what regulations has she changed in her first months of work, which is not about going to fight against private actors? Because, with the exception of the reversal of the character requirement for teachers, I struggle to see something other than regulations and hearings about combating private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e624	It really surprises me a little in the debate on the private kindergartens that the Progress Party, whose former party name is so far that I don't spend time repeating it, is not more concerned with public money. It surprises me a little bit that you are not more concerned about the fact that the money we donate to kindergartens – private as public – does not work for the very ones they are granted to: our kids. I find it strange that while there seems to be a fairly broad majority in this Chamber because we are making adjustments to the legislation for the private kindergartens, in view of the fact that the sector has changed as much as it has since the previous legislation was introduced, the Progress Party disagrees because there is a kind of right to make money on public welfare services and that private individuals should be able to take out profits on transfers intended for the young. I think people who observe us outside this hall will disagree that what I've spent my time primarily on is going to war against private people. On the contrary, I refer to the question I answered just before the representative went to the pulpit, about all the steps we take to strengthen the public common school. It's not an ideological battle. The reason why public schools are important is that they are so smart. It's inmari smart to have a common school where kids meet across the board. It's smart that people get a broad understanding of people who are a little different than themselves. It's smart that the most important tool we have to give our kids a good start in life, to make sure that they become good workers and people, are measures that are in public and political control. Therefore, I believe that the use of force to strengthen the common school is an important step to ensure that all children are truly equal to the right to education. So I'm going to keep saying that's the priority we're doing. We're going to work to strengthen the common school, stop the privatisation of the school and make sure that we do what we can to make all children have equal opportunities for education.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e637	I record that the Council of State does not respond to my question about what hearings and regulations have been initiated that are not about combating private people, but are about the content. But also yesterday we discussed kindergartens here in the hall. The representative Knutsdatter Strand of the Centerpartie said in the debate when we discussed the pension scheme, that although private kindergartens have had slightly higher contributions to pensions than the real costs, it has been a sub-financing to private kindergartens when you look at all the grants that private kindergartens receive. I want to ask the Council of State if she shares this description. So I want to add a question: in the last few years, Oslo Municipality has spent 600 million dollars. NOK to buy up ten private kindergartens and make them municipal. The municipality of Bergen has also purchased 1500 kindergartens. Is this something that the Council of State would recommend to several municipalities to do, namely to spend several hundred million dollars on buying up well-functioning private kindergartens to make them municipal?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e646	I share with the representative Strand Knutsdatter's view that some of the grants to the private kindergartens do not meet well enough. The grants to private kindergartens consist of several elements, and one of the grants that have been too high is the grant to cover pension expenditure, while others may have been too low. It illustrates why it is absolutely right that we are now doing the two things I said early on that we were going to do, both go through the rules of private kindergartens and go through the funding system. These are two things that obviously have to work together. The goal is to have good kindergartens. We're going to have sustainable kindergartens, we're going to make sure that kindergartens have a sustainable economy, so that they can keep focus on quality, be stable over time and work for the best of our kids. Then I think that the assessments that the municipalities make of the ownership of their kindergartens must be done by the municipalities, but I am concerned that to the extent that we can strengthen the local authorities' ability to influence this, we will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e653	Himanshu Gulati – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e658	We were so lucky, as I mentioned before, that we discussed kindergarten policy here yesterday, too, and in that debate, both Left and Right raised the possibilities for a new kindergarten settlement, to which I felt that the Council of State was not reprehensible. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether she is open to a new kindergarten settlement, a kindergarten settlement 2.0, in Stortinget, but where the two main principles that have been in force in kindergarten policy for the last 20 years, namely a form of economic equality between public and private kindergartens, and that, in the future, freedom of choice for parents is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e663	I get to quote myself from yesterday, since we have this debate for the second day in a row, and it's that I'm assuming that all parties who want to discuss this have read the Hurdal platform. And to the extent that you agree that it gives us a basis for something to talk about, they are cordially welcome to join in and discuss this. I am concerned that we have rules for our kindergartens that ensure the quality of the children, that make it safe for the parents, that they know – when they leave the most precious things they have, every single morning, and pick them up every afternoon – that it is a place that is safe and good, and that we make sure that the money we transfer on behalf of the community to the private kindergartens goes to what they should, namely the children, and that we ensure that we get an up-to-date regulation that keeps the diversity of the sector, where the small kindergartens, where the ideal kindergartens, also have the right of life and can last over time, and that we stop the massive buying-up from the large groups that we have witnessed over the years. I'm worried that more and more nursery places are owned by foreign companies. That's not how we're going to run Norwegian welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e670	Himanshu Gulati – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e676	Then I get to rephrase my question a little bit: are the principles of a non-economic treatment of public and private kindergartens, as well as a future freedom of choice for parents, part of what the Hurdal platform can include in a new kindergarten settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e681	That's absolutely it. It is not an objective of the government that no one should have freedom of choice in the choice of kindergartens in which to deliver their children. The private kindergartens are going to last, they're absolutely vital that we have the welfare offer we have for our children. Contrary to e.g. On the school side or the child protection side, it has been assumed that it is the private people who have helped to build up the entire service. In political discussions on other issues, for example: on school, the starting point is that there is a public offer, while private entries enter and substantiate it. I believe it is an objective that we have many different kindergartens, and they should be owned by both municipalities and private actors. I believe that there must be diversity in the sector, and it must be possible for parents to choose. If we manage to get broad consensus that can stand over time, that's the best thing. It is primarily important for children, but also for parents’ freedom of choice and the possibility of predictability in the nursery facilities they have, where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e688	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e693	In a small geographical area in eastern Ukraine, the UN estimates that over three million people need humanitarian aid. Since Russia annexed Crimea in 2014 and continued the acts of war, thousands of people have been killed and more than 1.4 million people have been internally displaced. I've been to the so-called contact line and I've seen the enormous distress of people who don't have the essentials they need to survive. Critical infrastructure such as water supply is still being destroyed by acts of war. All the major humanitarian international organisations are present, and the challenges of protecting people and ensuring that they have food, water, medicines and shelter are large and increasing. For the previous government it was a clear political priority to set up for Ukraine, and we increased the financial support by several hundred million dollars as the tension increased after Russia took Crimea and continued the war. Former Prime Minister Solberg visited Ukraine in November 2014 with a clear political message that she was there to support the development the Ukrainian people wanted for the country, and that Norway should continue to contribute to a peaceful and secure path. Norway also joined all EU restrictive measures against Russia from the very beginning. The right, therefore, supports all ongoing measures, and it is good that the government continues the support we started, but it does not seem like the government's ability to adapt to a dynamic and increasingly demanding situation. In recent months, the level of tension and humanitarian challenges have increased again. The UN launched the 2022 response plan for Ukraine in November. That's where they're asking for $1.7 billion. kr just to reach the 1.8 million most vulnerable and vulnerable people. So far, Norway’s response has been a very modest increase in humanitarian aid of 4.5 million. kr. Why does Norway not signal increased humanitarian aid as requested by the United Nations to Ukraine in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e704	The situation around Ukraine is very serious, and I am pleased that the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee is now addressing this issue in the United Kingdom. In this situation, it's unusually important that we coordinate with other allies. That is why it has been important in our communication with Russia, and it has also been important in the follow-up to this issue – including in terms of support to Ukraine. I feel that in NATO there is a great deal of understanding of the line that Norway is choosing, and it is that our task is now to look after our own neighbourhoods in the military – to be vigilant if anything should happen. Then it is clear that Norway is among those countries that have had a great deal of support for Ukraine over the last few years – 2 billion. kr since 2014 – and it is clear that it will also be relevant to increase the humanitarian contribution to Ukraine. How much it's going to be, we're going to get back to. I had invited my Ukrainian colleague to Norway, but he had to cancel his visit to Norway on 21 January – which many have to do these days. We have plans to meet with the first and discuss how we can show solidarity with Ukraine. What we cannot meet, on the other hand, is the demand of the Young Right yesterday – to bring arms aid to Ukraine. That is as far as I understand no parties on the Stortinget that support it. It was precisely this requirement that the Ukrainian ambassador promoted in his interview with TV 2 not long ago. That kind of contribution will not be relevant for Norway, but I would like to discuss with Ukrainian authorities how we can show solidarity in a very demanding situation for the entire Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e717	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, there are no parties on the Stortinget that – I am aware of it, at least – support Norway's amendment of its export control legislation and export arms or ammunition to Ukraine. But one way to show solidarity that several of our closest allies and partners have been able to do is to take ever new initiatives to demonstrate political support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Among other things, the United Kingdom, the United States, Sweden, Switzerland and Canada launched the Partnership Fund for a Resilient Ukraine to strengthen Ukraine's right to choose its own future. Sweden contributes 50 million. kr, and Foreign Minister Ann Linde said in a press release on Thursday that Sweden continues to show its unwavering solidarity with and comprehensive support to Ukraine in a troubled situation. The British contribute 1 billion. kr. So the Norwegian government is on the fence and has neither been involved in any initiative nor taken any of its own initiatives. Why does the government choose not to take similar initiatives or to participate in initiatives taken by our closest allies and related countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e726	I am completely incomprehensible about the description provided by the representative. I believe that we are very well coordinated with all our NATO allies in this situation in which we now stand. It's a little too serious for the Right now to try to knock political coins on this serious situation. In this situation, I believe it is absolutely necessary to express allied solidarity and cohesion with the Ukrainian people, and we will consider different measures that Ukrainian authorities may take. I will discuss this when I contact my Ukrainian colleague. However, making proposals that are not well-founded, I believe will damage the situation. What we have been concerned about from the Norwegian side is to support Ukrainian civil society, and one of the most important things we can do in the fight for Ukraine's independence is to support Ukrainian democracy and support anti-corruption work. It's a work we'll continue to do in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e733	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e738	Our closest allies and partners obviously felt that it was well justified to give increased support to Ukraine, just to support democracy. There are several NATO countries now talking about strengthening their presence in Eastern Member States, or actually doing so, to show very clearly that NATO is taking the security of allies seriously in a situation where Russia continues with unprovoked aggression against Ukraine. Jens Stoltenberg has been very clear that it is important to show that NATO will protect all the countries of the alliance. We are present in Lithuania and have been there for a long time, and it is good that it continues. However, the Prime Minister told the NRK on 24 January that ‘it is totally un topical’ for Norway to contribute to the strengthened NATO presence in the East. And he went on to say, ‘Now there is a responsibility on both sides to make wise speech dominate, and do not allow it to be stepped up with interpretations of ‘how many forces are coming where’.’ Is it the government's position that what NATO and our allies are now doing is a ‘stamping’?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e750	No, it's not. What is important for Norway is that we both seek to calm ourselves and a credible deterrence, and that credible deterrence is built, among other things. through a great military exercise that we're going to arrange this winter. Allied ships and military capabilities will contribute in large measure, and I think that is a very important task for us now. I had a meeting with NATO's Deputy Secretary-General earlier this week, and I feel that there is a great deal of understanding for the line that Norway is choosing. And the line we pick is that we have a special responsibility to follow in the north. That's our mission in NATO. Norway is NATO in the north, and in an appropriate security policy situation it will remain our task. I am very much a member of the soldiers that we have stationed in Lithuania, we have good experience with it. Then, of course, we will consider the situation continuously to see if there is a need to strengthen this from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e759	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e765	Norway, both this and the previous government, is commendably clear in its criticism of Russia's threats to neighbouring countries and also abuse of human rights in its own country, while we do not let it get in the way of working for a good and peace-building dialogue with Russia. Another country that oppresses people within its own borders and threatens countries around it is China, but with China we have signed an agreement, a normalization agreement, where, as a nation, we undertake to renounce freedom of expression and the opportunity to criticize China for things China does not want to be criticized for. These are two very different approaches to the same type of problem. We're going to go an interpellation on this to the Minister of Foreign Affairs this week, but now we're wondering a very small example: Norwegian practitioners were welcomed in Beijing with threats to their freedom of expression of the host. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs address this with her Chinese host when she comes to visit them in Beijing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e772	The President will explain that there is no connection between the main question and the follow-up question, but Foreign Minister Huitfeldt, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e777	Now it is relatively well known that my meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister, whom I was supposed to have in connection with the Olympic Games, was cancelled. But I would like to say that that representative is using Norwegian China policy, simply because it is wrong. We can deal with the questions that we think are necessary. I've done that every time I've met representatives of the Chinese authorities. I have not thought that there are any ties between me, other representatives of the government or other big business representatives in our dealings with China. I believe it is quite natural that Norwegian practitioners have freedom of expression wherever they are. That's the government's line. I do not think it serves the purpose, which is certainly to promote human rights, to say that Norway is subject to restrictions on what we can say in our conversations and relations with China, because there are not the kind of restrictions that the representative here has.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e784	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e798	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Mahmoud Farahmand to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and District Affairs, who is directly responsible. Question 5, from the representative Ingerd Schou to the Minister for Development, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease. Question 10, from the representative of Ingvild Wetrhus Thorsvik to children and the Minister for the Family, must be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Arion Nilsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister of Health and Welfare, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 14, from the representative André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Economic Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food who is directing him. Question 16, from the representative Rasmus Hansson to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, the question was moved and answered in response to question 4, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 20, from the representative of Une Bastholm to the Minister of Justice and Defence, will be taken up by the representative of Kristoffer Robin Haug.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e830	His Andreas Limi is not present. Then we go on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e838	‘Does the Minister of Finance agree with Mr Pollestad’s opinion on Monday, 18 January, that a petrol price of DKK 20 is too high?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e843	I agree with my party colleague Pollestad that 20 kroner per litre is a high petrol price in 2021-2022, and I understand that it makes it more difficult in the everyday life of those who depend on the car. For that very reason, this government in our additional number cancelled the fee shop for Erna Solberg's government. The budget we received on the table from the previous government, a government under which the Progress Party supported, would mean an increase in the price of petrol and diesel of 48 and 42 cents per litre respectively. In the budget agreement, we reduced fuel taxes, mostly on biofuels. Compared to the Solberg Government's proposal, this contributed to 22 øre per litre lower petrol prices and 25 øre per litre lower diesel prices. The price increase now is mainly linked to reasons other than the tax policy of this government. The increase is mainly linked to the market and commodity prices and, most recently, to foreign exchange prices. We also notice that prices can now fluctuate several kroner in a short time, just now between 17 and 20 kroner, despite the fact that the fees are constant. In this context, it is also important to remember that this government is pursuing a different charging policy than the previous one. For this government, it is an objective to reduce the charges for ordinary people. The Hurdal platform says that the government will ‘reduce the most expensive charges, such as electricity charges’ – which we have discussed earlier today, which we reduced by about a quarter. 47 pst. the current month – «and fuel charges». In conclusion, I will therefore answer yes to the question whether I agree with Pollestad that the price of fuel is now high, because oil and gas prices are high, and fuel prices are also high. Fortunately, I have a good local gas station that is nice to keep the price quite low, so I'm careful to fill the days it's the lowest – on my excellent Amarok, which is thousands and goes on good diesel. That is why I am pleased that we have got a new government, which does not increase the fuel tax as much as the previous government wanted, because we see a little more what the everyday life of people is like.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e854	I thank you for your answer. I'll make this short and simple. The reason I sent in the question was that last week the staging representative asked Terje Halleland if the petrol charge had gone up or down from 2021 to 2022. Then the Council of State chose to refer only to the government of Solberg's proposed state budget for 2022, and did not relate to what had actually been asked. That's why I ask again: Has the petrol and diesel tax gone up from 2021 to 2022 – not measured against the government of Solberg, but compared to what the drivers actually paid in the fuel and diesel tax in 2021?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e859	Instead, the representative was concerned about these mafia pictures, so I thought I would say that he dreamt of being an actor in a mob movie. Now it seems that the great villain in Steffensen's dramaturgy must be the government of Solberg, so he must not talk about it, because what it came with was the absolutely worst solution. It is therefore good that it was not the government that the Progress Party wanted, at least, that wanted a much higher level of charges. We have a lower level of charges, and then there are many elements in fuel taxes, such as: blended biodiesel, bioethanol – those elements. If I don't remember completely wrong, there's 57 cents and 43 cents lower on those elements. Other elements go up a little, and in sum there is a slightly higher fee this year. But that is not where the big price difference lies, because it lies in commodity prices and foreign exchange prices. And a common driver who depends on a car in his everyday life will experience the overall tax and tax level falling due to other interventions, for example. strengthening of the commuting deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e864	Thanks for the answer and for the confirmation that the petrol tax actually went up. In today's news last 18 weeks and the Nettavisen this week, the representative Pollestad is also clear that the petrol tax will decrease in the coming year. One of the drivers for increasing the petrol price is an increased CO 2 tax, and when you talk about bad guys, the government of Solberg would have added up to a huge increase in the CO 2 tax. It had never been accepted by the Advance Party, but the government of Støre chose to continue with the increase in fees that the Solberg government had made, and in its platform has said that they will increase the CO 2 tax to NOK 2000 per tonne by 2030. Then there will have to be powerful compensation to ensure that there is actually a reduction in the petrol charge. Can the Council guarantee that, despite the increase in the fuel tax in 2022, the petrol tax will be reduced by future budgets, i.e. reduced, cut, in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e880	We got caught. The Solberg government made its grip, and then we took action to compensate for an increase in the CO 2 tax by cutting the user charge both on ordinary diesel and petrol compared to what Solberg had proposed, and not least on biodiesel and bioethanol, which has become an increasingly large part of the petrol and diesel mix. We also did things that one does not look at the pump price, but that means something to me as a driver. We reduced the traffic insurance fee, which means that the cost of having a car goes down. Also for those who depend on a car in their everyday lives, e.g. when travelling to work, for most people the level of taxes and taxes will fall by the use of a car, because there will be so much better commuting deductions for those who commute far. Here one has done a lot of work, so many will experience that the total cost will be taxed and taxed. But because of higher petrol and diesel prices, it was still good that we did what we did, at least on commuter credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e891	This question, from the representative of Mahmoud Farahman to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Local and District Affairs who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e896	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for taking the time to come here and answer the question in a busy everyday life. The question is: ‘The Minister of Finance has on several occasions been out there confirming that the State will take the bill for all the states that want to be dissolved, and at the same time, the Council of State Bjørn Arild Gram has said that only the coercive states will be covered. Can the Council of State respond to whether it is the coercive groups that will have their costs covered, or whether it is the case of all the states applying for a resolution?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e909	The Government will facilitate the division of coercive counties which submit an application following a decision in the county council. ‘Compulsory’ means county municipalities which the Stortinget decided to merge in 2017, despite the fact that one or more of the county councils involved had taken a decision that they did not wish to merge. The process for which the government has now set up means that coercive county municipalities can submit applications to the department for division by 1 March. An application for division shall be justified and the framework for the investigations shall be set out in the letters of information of 12 November 2021 of the combined counties. Several municipalities are now investigating whether they should be shared. After the Ministry has received the examination and application for division of counties, the Ministry will prepare a proposal to be submitted to the Stortinget. The proposal shall include proposals for decisions on the division of the counties concerned, including proposals for new county boundaries. There are no rules in the law on the division of compensation from the State for the one-off costs of sharing a municipality or county municipality. But the government has taken the initiative to coercive municipalities and county municipalities if they want to. In the case of possible costs related to the sharing of coercive municipalities, the government has previously reported that we will contribute financially in an agreed and appropriate manner. We will give the county councils the opportunity to cover the direct costs that are absolutely necessary, and we will place considerable emphasis on the accuracy of resource use. I believe it is right and important to address the county councils so that the sharing costs will not go beyond the offer to the inhabitants, even since the Stortinget, through its decisions in 2017, merged county councils that themselves did not want to do so, with coercion – nor did they follow up with sufficient funding. The process to which the government has committed itself applies to coercive state municipalities. I do not know that county councils that are not coerced together are investigating division.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e924	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now I come from Vestfold and Telemark, and you can discuss whether it is coercive or not. The experience, at least in the counties, is that it was a voluntary marriage. Based on what the Council of State says, it is that the coercive – based on the definition provided here – will cover the costs. However, this means that Vestfold and Telemark are most likely not to be covered, and they are currently dealing with – as the situation is – with a resolution. Then my question is: why should not those who are not coerced be covered? The provision of services would equally be in full jeopardy if these costs were to be taken over the usual county budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e933	Here I think it must be a misunderstanding, because Vestfold and Telemark County Municipality are one of the four county municipalities that have received letters from the Ministry of Local and District Affairs to organise a process for those who are defined as coercive, and they will then be subject to the system of compensation for sharing costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e938	That's pretty interesting, because there's still some ambiguity around it. When you ask these questions, not just the Council of State, you don't get clear answers. However, if this is to be covered, it is quite clear that the annual operating costs of these new split-up counties will be higher than current operating costs. In previous debates with the Minister of Finance, it has been clear that one does not want to increase taxes, nor does it want to increase the use of oil money – which I personally agree with. But then the question is, how are you going to recover the annual increased operating costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e943	I do not understand that there is any confusion as to whether Vestfold and Telemark should be covered for their split costs, in line with other coercive county municipalities. So if the representative is in doubt about that, I will at least state quite unambiguously now that Vestfold and Telemark are covered by that scheme and will have the opportunity to send an application for it. With regard to the general costs of financing it, a budgetary priority issue follows the normal budgetary procedures. That's something we have to get back to in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e953	«The Board of Governors and the Research Fund of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Industries are public limited liability companies. They are owned by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries but are both fully financed by the Norwegian Seafood Export Tax. It is therefore important that the industry itself is represented in the management of the company and thus has the power to influence the composition before the government is appointed by the department. The previous government took the initiative to consult its industry organisations before the appointment of new government. Will the Council of State follow this up and consult with the organisations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e960	The answer is yes. The State of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries owns 100 pst. of Norway's Sea wire AS and the research funding of the fisheries and aquaculture industry AS, FHF. One of the most important tasks for the State which owns is to ensure that the companies have competent and well-functioning boards. The members of the Board of Governors of the Sea Council and the FHF shall be elected to the General Assembly, which shall be the State of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. The Fish Exports Act states that the Administration of the Seafood Council is to be representative of the fisheries and aquaculture industry, as is repeated in the company’s statutes. The corresponding Regulation states that undertakings and organisations in the industry may submit proposals to the Ministry for candidates to the Management Board. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has as a rule to obtain proposals from business organisations prior to the Governing Board. For the FHF, the regulation of the law underpinning the establishment of the FHF and the company’s statutes provides that proposals are to be made to directors from the fisheries and aquaculture industries and that there is to be competence from the industry of the management board of the company. Several members of the Governing Boards today have been appointed on a proposal from the organisations. However, the board members do not represent the organisations they are proposed by, they respond to me, who are constitutionally responsible for the companies. It is very important that there is good competence in the fisheries and aquaculture industries of the boards of the two companies, and that is the case today. The Board of Directors of the Marine Food Council shall have all experience in the fisheries and aquaculture industry in one or more ways, such as business owners, through work in maritime food companies, through experience from the board of directors or through political experience. The experience is e.g. from the fishing or rearing stages. Seafood industries also have a significant influence on the activities of the Seafood Council through participation in the market groups for the different product categories. The Central Business Organisations have made representations to members of the FHF Governing Board and emphasis is placed on the good competence of the industry in the board of directors. All members of the FHF Management Board are anchored in the fisheries and aquaculture industry. All members of the Governing Council and the FHF have been elected to the ordinary general meeting in 2023. So they're not in elections for the ordinary general meeting this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e977	I'm pleased with the answer from the Council of State, a distinctly yes, reason in the way he did.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e991	This issue has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and Aquaculture as appropriate. The question falls because the query is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1007	This issue has been postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has a disease incident.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1015	‘This year, Norway has the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Nordic dimension is among the most important for Norway in areas such as transport, climate, culture and business. Recently, we have seen major security-policy tensions in our neighbourhoods, most clearly and most acutely in Russian force mobilisation at the border with Ukraine. In the light of these developments, does the government intend to use Norway's Presidency to promote security cooperation in the Nordic region and with the Baltic region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1022	We in the Nordic region share fundamental values and interests. We have a common desire to contribute to a world where power is right and where we find solutions through cooperation and diplomatic channels. The Nordic countries have different links with both NATO and the EU, but through Nordic cooperation we can do something very important, namely to inform and complement each other. This year, Norway has chaired both the Nordic Council of Ministers and Nordic foreign policy cooperation N5 and the Nordic defence cooperation NORDEFCO. In the Nordic Council of Ministers, we will contribute to the realisation of vision 2030 that the Nordic region will be the most sustainable region in the world. We focus on a green, competitive and socially sustainable Nordic region. Here it is Minister of Cooperation, Mr Twinnereim, who is in charge of leadership. In the group called N5, which is all five Nordic foreign ministers, we have three presidency priorities. One is multilateralism, which is under pressure in many parts of the world, and the rule of law and democracy in Europe, as we have also seen, and also green diplomacy. In addition, European security is high on the agenda. We are witnessing increased tension and unrest in the surrounding regions of the Nordic countries, and there is no doubt that the situation in Russia, Ukraine and Belarus creates an increasingly demanding security policy situation affecting both the Nordic countries and Europe. We are experiencing a changing security policy environment and a more self-reliant Russia. This has led to a more consistent understanding among the Nordic countries of the security policy challenges we face, and this is relatively new. Increased Russian activity in and by Ukraine also underlines the importance of NATO. It is therefore positive that both Sweden and Finland have strengthened their cooperation with NATO in recent years. I am pleased that we can discuss security policy challenges in the Nordic region in an open and trusting way, across organisational affiliation and alliances. We also regularly do so with the Baltic countries, among others. in Nordic-Baltic cooperation, which is not N5, but which we call NB8, i.e. Nordic-Baltic eight. In the Nordic N5 Presidency, I want to air the discussion on how we can help reduce security policy tensions in Europe. We need to do what we can to resolve conflicts in our neighbourhoods through diplomatic channels. It is the Minister of Defence who is responsible for the Presidency of the Nordic Defence Cooperation NORDEFCO. That cooperation is in good progress, also outside the NORDEFCO framework. It also adds value to the Nordic countries' relations with NATO, the EU and the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1031	I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also shares the view that in this situation the Nordic countries may be even closer to each other than in the past, and a total increase has, after all, been expressed in previous Nordic cooperation messages just a desire to stand together in the Nordic region on security challenges and to be clear on them, and these issues are more relevant today than they are in the past. But now it appears that our neighbouring countries are a little bit more on the ball than Norway is, does the government intend to facilitate the strengthening of security policy cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic States in the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1036	The security policy situation suggests that we should do so and that we do so. I recently traveled to Finland, because they are in a very special situation with their long border with Russia, and it is important for us now to coordinate with them. So when I meet in the NATO context, we inform Sweden and Finland about what's important to them that we address. So it's clear that when we're under pressure, and our values are under pressure, and where one country calls for the use of instruments that are not accepted within the framework of international law, it brings us in the Nordics and the Baltics even closer together than before. And that reflects the agenda we have in these meetings, both in Nordic cooperation and in Nordic-Baltic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1043	I think it's interesting that the Foreign Minister says it, because while NATO is increasing its military positions in border areas against Russia, we in Norway say it's not relevant. Støre said, as mentioned earlier today, in January of this year to the NRK that we have to take care of the areas in the north. I fully agree with that, and of course the Stortinget also agrees that the northern regions are Norway's main responsibility for security policy. But the other Nordic countries today showed an intention to escalate their military presence in the Baltic, while the government is not giving any such signals on behalf of Norway. So what is the position of the Nordics and the Baltics in the government's view of Norwegian security policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1048	What is important when we have military exercises today, compared to a few years ago, is that Finland and Sweden are very closely integrated, and that we participate in security policy and defence policy cooperation with those who strengthen us as a unit in a vulnerable region. We will, of course, evaluate the situation continuously in terms of the strengths of the Baltic, and it's not up to us in any way to say that we won't, as a principle point of view. But right now, it's important that we give priority to our sea areas in the north, which are large, and which are currently under tension, but where we have to be alert. And I feel that there's a lot of understanding in NATO that we're taking the role in the security situation that we're now in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1056	‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’s press release after the closure of talks with the Taliban highlighted two factors that made the visit successful. The first was the dialogue between the Taliban and human rights fighters from Afghanistan that the Minister of Foreign Affairs would hope to continue, and the second was that Western countries had made clear demands on the Taliban. This is very little concrete. Are there any concrete results from the discussions, agreements concluded, and promises that have been made?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1063	Making specific agreements was not on the agenda. We have been clear on this in all our communication about these conversations. We and our close allies have always had the sober expectations for quick results from the Oslo meetings. The aim of the talks was to bring Afghans together to discuss acute humanitarian and human rights issues. We wanted to clarify Afghan and international demands against the Taliban. We did it. For the first time after the takeover of power, the Taliban agreed to have a thorough political discussion with women activists and other opinionators in Afghan society. Face to face in a safe place, they received a clear message. The legitimacy comes from the Afghans themselves. It requires reconciliation and a more inclusive board than what we see today. During the talks, we made measurable demands to the Taliban on the right to education and on inclusive processes. We want to keep track of what they're actually doing. The ball is with the Taliban. The fact that the participants at the meeting agreed on a final communication was positive. In Oslo, the Taliban clearly stated that they will open schools for all girls in Afghanistan when the Afghan school year begins in March. It is an important promise to hundreds of thousands of girls and women in Afghanistan, but they must show in practice that they are complying. It's no use saying one thing at the Oslo meetings and not following up when they get home. The Soria Moria talks have also facilitated contact between the Taliban and western countries. It is important not least to address the acute humanitarian challenges. We have to keep challenging those who actually rule in Afghanistan, and it's the Taliban whether we like it or not. In the meetings, we also discussed with the Taliban the technical and political measures they are expected to take to improve support for humanitarian aid, health and schooling – support that will be channelled through the World Bank’s Fund, the United Nations system and voluntary organisations. We also addressed the importance of humanitarian principles and that they must be respected, and that all civilians, including children, are protected from violence and abuse. We're realistic. We don't believe in any quick solutions to the situation. We don't change the situation in Afghanistan with a few days of conversation, but it's a beginning. Reconciliation between Afghans will take time, and the possibility of increased western involvement with the Taliban will take time. We depend on much more meetings in the time to come than the ones in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1078	In order for the Taliban to understand what we are protesting against, that is, the clarification, they do not need to be brought to Norway. I think they've understood that a long time ago. It's not like you have to talk to the devil to tell the devil that you're not very happy with their message. Governments later said that there were concrete objectives, women and education. I have the whole statement here. It says: «Welcomed updates...», «Listened carefully and with group...», «Thanked Norway...», «Urged the Taliban...», «Raised the import...», «Noted with grave group...», «Reaffirmed our exploration...», «Made clear that their meetings with the Taliban in no way implied any sense of...», blah, blah, blah. That's what it says here – no commitments at all. Nothing came out of this meeting. Will there be concrete demands if aid organisations start helping Afghans again – if the Taliban continues to execute, continues to mutilate people, continues to blame women who are themselves being raped? Are we going to stop these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1087	It is a little unclear what kind of support the representative is talking about. When it comes to humanitarian aid, it's based on humanitarian principles, regardless of governance. It's for people to get food and medicine. What is important to us is that it is not the Taliban that will be allowed to distribute humanitarian aid, but that there must be organisations that distribute to all based on humanitarian principles, regardless of their political views. That's exactly why it's important to talk to the Taliban. They control cities, they control roads, so that if humanitarian organisations and UN organisations are to gain access and power over the principles underlying the provision of emergency aid, we need to have dialogue with the Taliban. Obviously, a lot here is about schools. Some international organisations are involved in financing schools and salaries for teachers. It's not relevant for us to contribute a lot of money to schools if the schools are just for boys. It is the kind of requirement made by different donors at the meeting as a condition for different parts of the assistance going to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1096	So you don't have to bring that much money, but you have to give some money to schools that don't accept women's participation. The only point of the agreement that is concrete is point 6, and it says: «Note that our governments are expanding relief operations, helping prevent the collapse of social services and supporting the revival of Afghanistan’s economy. Participations noted the import of increasing cash liquidity and support to the banking sector in order to help stabilise the Afghan economy. Participants further pressed for the development of a transparent, sound strategy to restore confidence in the financial sector.» What it says here is that we should include the Taliban – in their financial system, in saving the banking system. You can't do that without the support of the regime that actually governs there. So just what we said we shouldn't do is the only concrete point. Is it the case that funds are to be transferred to the Taliban through this relief organisation, or that this money frozen abroad is to be returned to the Taliban, or will there be no money to the Taliban?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1108	What seems like the representative hasn't got along with it is that this was an international meeting. Norway was the organiser of the meeting, but the demands were not made on behalf of Norway alone. It's on behalf of allies that we've been in the military with in Afghanistan. It is France, the United Kingdom, the EU or the United States. I think it is alarming that the representative turns around and turns on what I say about girls' schools. The point is that a lot of people spend money on education, among other things. to pay for teachers, and I think that's important. It's not like this country's getting better because kids or young people don't get education. But that's how Western donors won't give money to schools if they're just for boys. There are concrete demands that have been made, and as it is very measurable to see if they actually follow up. In Oslo they have said that they will do one thing, and then it remains to see if they actually follow up when they return to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1118	‘The six NH90 helicopters delivered in their preliminary version shall be upgraded to their final version and expected to be ready for upgrade in 2023, cf. Prop. 1 S from the Ministry of Defence. [[2021-2022]] Will the upgrade of these six helicopters be carried out as planned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1125	Let me begin by commending the efforts made both by the Defence Material and the Defence in connection with the acquisition and phase-in of the NH90. However, it has to be said that they still work in reverse with deliveries that have been constantly delayed, and with a supplier that still cannot deliver under the agreements that have been concluded. So we don't yet have the maritime helicopter capacity that we need. Norway has so far received a total of 13 NH90. Six of these, as pointed out by the representative, were delivered in a preliminary version and shall be upgraded by the supplier to a final version. In the landfill proposal, the expectation was that these six helicopters would be upgraded and returned to Norway by the end of 2023. Last December, the Ministry of Defence received updated forecasts for delivery. Then the end date of the upgrade completion was shifted to 2024. However, the supplier has also not given us reason to trust those plans. I am definitely not satisfied with this and will therefore review the maritime helicopter capacity again. In such an assessment, it would also be natural to look at the possibility of cancelling the contract. I know and am fully aware that there is no quick or easy solution to the problem we are facing. The aim is to achieve a sound solution for the future. We continue the work of investigating the possibilities of rental, which was initiated by the previous government, but that is not enough. A thorough review of the entire case complex is necessary and the Defence and Defence Equipment shall support the Ministry in the implementation of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1136	Thanks for the answer. There was a lot of news in it, to say it like this. We all know the story of the NH90. It started out as the idea of a unit helicopter — a helicopter that should be as similar as possible to quite a number of nations. So the nations came with their specific needs, and you ended up with almost the opposite. In addition, they have all the delivery problems. Now I see that Australia chooses to drive its 47 helicopters on the stable, just to shut it down, and Sweden assesses the same with its 14. Is there an assessment that Norway is also making that could be a possible outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1145	As I already announced in my first answer, it will be part of the assessment, and I think we have come to the point where it is necessary to do so. Already in 2012, former Secretary of Defense Espen Barth Eide announced that it might be appropriate to cancel the contract. So it's been ten years, and we still haven't reached the goal, so it's a question of what eternal perspective we're going to have with this supplier.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1150	The Minister of Defence informed me in writing that the Coast Guard helicopters will deliver 200 flight days in 2022. Given that all the helicopter carriers had been in place, and they're coming soon, the need is over 1,000 days. So they deliver 20 pst. of the needs of the Coast Guard. Would it be considered a possible solution to use these helicopters only for the Coast Guard, possibly only for the frigate weapon, instead of spreading it on two different arms?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1155	We're really considering all the options to get the best possible preparedness. What has been signaled by the Coast Guard for 2022 is a need of 684 days, of which NH90 can deliver approx. 200. Unfortunately, we are not quite sure that it is possible to deliver the 200 days we thought would be possible to deliver with the NH90 due to the challenges that are. But the answer is yes, we consider all options in order to get the best possible preparedness on the largest possible vessel.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1166	«Recently we could see terrible images from the desert in Chile where there are 40,000 tons of used counterwear. According to figures from the World Bank, the clothing industry is the world's largest climate and environmental sinners. Last year, the Solberg government presented Norway’s first circular economy strategy with several measures. The EU will present a strategy for textiles in March. What concrete new measures will the Council of State put in place for the textile industry, and can we expect the government to start its investigation work in anticipation of the EU textile strategy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1173	I would like to thank Mr Tybring-Gjedde for his question. I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that the textile industry is now an issue of great interest, both in the media and not least by means of important efforts from the organisation The future in our hands. Nothing will please me more than whether we can get a broad political agreement that this must be addressed. For that to be the case, all industries that use resources and have emissions have to be looked at. Each stone must be turned upside down, not least in the textile industry. In Norway, we have a rather small textile industry, but we have a very high consumption. It affects how we have to work on this. We consume about 15 kg of clothing and home textiles per person per year. Deloitte’s report on the knowledge base of the national circular economy strategy and the potential for increased circularity concludes that textiles and clothing have a high potential for increased circularity. It was pointed out that there is a potential for sorting out 43 000 tonnes of textiles for reuse or recycling each year and that a very small proportion of the textiles recovered are actually used in the production of new clothes. The EU Waste Framework Directive requires separate collection of textile waste from 2025 and the Environment Directorate is now working on how this requirement can be introduced in Norway. When the production of textiles takes place in countries other than Norway, it means that we also have to work internationally to address the problem. We must work actively for regulations that can affect global production, where products must be designed and produced for sustainability. Measures aimed at the production phase of textiles are the most effective and require international rules and standards at European and global level. It is therefore very important to work with the EU and in international forums around it. So did the previous government, as was mentioned. In a few months' time, the EU will come up with an ambitious strategy for sustainable textiles. We're looking forward to this one. The roadmap for this strategy states that the role of producer responsibility in promoting sustainable textiles and the treatment of textile waste in line with the waste hierarchy will be assessed and to support the implementation by Member States of the separate collection of textile waste. The Directorate-General for the Environment has then been given a mandate to carry out a broad review of existing producer responsibility schemes and their improvements. Now that the Environment Directorate will present a new detailed report on producer responsibility schemes in spring, we will look at how the existing schemes can become more efficient, more robust and support a circular economy. So I refer to my answer to question number. 981, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on the importance of producer responsibility. I believe that producer responsibility can be a very interesting tool to ensure increased collection of textiles and to facilitate the actual recycling of more of the textile waste. When we have both the Environment Directorate's second report and the European Commission's strategy for sustainable textiles, we will come back with how we implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1194	I agree with the Council of State that it is exciting to see what the EU is now presenting in a month's time in its strategy. They have already notified what will be the grips, in particular the revision of the Ecodesign Directive and traceability requirements, and they will address environmental labelling and waste management as well. The reason why I hope that some of the work can already be started is that the Environment Directorate was recently out and said that there is now a tsunami of EU legislation and that they need the resources to enforce it. Is it to start with e.g. producer responsibility for textiles and perhaps extend the mandate of the now reduced committee to also look at other producer liability schemes, which the Council of State might think is something that could be done now, rather than waiting for a few months more?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1201	Firstly, I agree with the objective here, and I am actually going to meet the Environment Directorate tomorrow. This is one of the themes on my agenda with them, to look at how we can get ahead of this particular work, which the representative Tybring-Gjedde rightly asks for. I normally agree that you should not wait for the EU with things you can do yourself, but I just remind you that here we are talking about waiting about approx. One month, for this strategy is thus very near at hand. We know some of the elements that it will contain, and so we've started to prepare to go into these questions, for example. producer responsibility. The reason why it is important to connect it to the EU is that this is a market that we are part of, which means that these products should be able to move freely in the European market, and it is also important that standards are set at the right level. But it shouldn't be a rest cushion. On the contrary, I want Norway to play an active role here at home, of course, but also in the European and international work in this field, which I am very pleased that we have attention around.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1210	It is clear that this is the balance we need to find: what are we going to do about specific Norwegian requirements and own schemes, and what are we going to do with EU directives? I promise the producer liability system precisely because we have our own arrangements in Norway in many ways that are independent of what is imposed on us by the EU. I just want to dig a little further into what the Council of State had in mind in its first answer, namely that we should have a plan to reach the sorting requirement by 2025. It's very short time, and we need logistics solutions in place, we need a completely different way to have a return system, and it also needs to be financed. When can we expect the Environment Directorate to come up with that plan, and is there something we are going to deal with here at Stortinget? What is the deadline set by the government for this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1217	It's quite right, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde says, that it's a short time to 2025, and there's quite a lot of conversion going on. In order to have separate sorting of clothing in general waste collection, it is also necessary to ensure that there is a separate collection of textiles. We know that we're going to, and it's really a work that doesn't have to wait, it's just to get started. It's absolutely right that there's part of these schemes we can handle ourselves, and there's a lot about collecting and recycling here. In terms of content, components and production forms of clothing not made in Norway, enough EU is the natural framework to do so, because they are going to join us. There should at least be no doubt that we are going to work with full pressure on this. It includes getting speed on the things that we already know we have to do, for example. as regards the collection and recovery of clothing, but perhaps also a little on issues related to the awareness-raising of clothing consumption versus reuse also in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1233	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1241	‘It is a requirement for the people of More and Romesdal and a requirement from the county to carry out an external clearance of the Rome valley shaft as an overseas solution with all technology for crossing the E39 Romsdalsfjord. An undersea solution has not been requested. The leader of the County Transport Selection has stated that ‘the Ministry does not understand the seriousness’. Why does the Minister for Transport conclude on the subject of an additional issue of the Romesdal Saxony option without having implemented it with a overseas alternative as required by everyone?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1248	In recent years, the state road system has been leading the world in the development of fjord crossing technologies — both floating bridges, suspension bridges and pipe bridges. This work now makes it possible to cross fjords without ferry where previously only ferries or subsea tunnels were possible. Developments have taken place both through national development projects and through concrete development projects. In particular, the effort has been linked to E39, but competences include: the benefit of the assessment of the crossing of Oslofjorden. The overall knowledge built up in the State Road Service on bridges and tunnels is useful when E39 Ålesund–Molde has been assessed in several rounds. The State has conducted three investigations of ferry-free crossing of the Romsdalsfjord. The last investigation was carried out by Norconsult in 2021, after the Ministry of Transport had received input from the State Road Administration with the wish to re-assess over- and undersea solutions. Oversea solutions have been evaluated in all three investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1255	The focus was clear on using all available technologies, and it is not available for the solutions that are possible, especially beyond the Veøya and other areas of the Rome Valley Saxon option. What I'm asking about the supplementary question is simply this: how can it be concluded with the Møreak and say that this is the best option, when it now turns out that the Ålesund-Digernes, the Digernes-Örskogberg and also the Julsund-Bolsøhnes are not available? A drive now and wondering about various options. One has cut costs from 39.5 billion in the past. DKK to 23.1 billion. kr in 2012. Ein has e.g. Cut the Breivika-Digernes from 7.2 billion. DKK to SEK 1.6 billion. kr without one knowing which one to build. Then the question is, how can the Council of State conclude that this is the best solution when large parts of the ferry-free E39 Ålesund-Bolseyes are not actually designed or planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1262	Now I explained that this particular question has been thoroughly addressed several times. So it was done in the concept selection investigation for E39 Ålesund–Bergsøya from 2011. Then the State Road Administration assessed the concept of 5C, an overseas solution via Secken and Veøya. Then there was a new assessment in 2019 when the Statens vägvesen presented the E39 Ålesund–Molde investigation. The concept was also adapted to the input from the local interest company Romsdalsaksen AS. The last evaluation, carried out by Norconsult, also reviewed the different concepts and reached the same conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1267	I have followed the process from 2011 onwards. In 2011, it was the underwater option from the Secken to the Molde. I think we'll let it lie. The starting point is that the requirement of both the people and the county is an overseas alternative with the solutions that are today with floating bridges, but it has not been properly distributed. And we're very surprised that it's a little bit like think-in-a-bit, for a cut in costs, and then it turns out it's not designed. A big question that I would like the Council of State to answer is the debt of the 16-kilometre tunnel under the fjord, down to almost 360 meters, which is estimated at 13 billion. kr. A now set of experience figures for Rogfast, which is built on the same basis, which shows a significantly higher meter price. How is it possible for the Council of State to stand behind that it will be possible to build cheaper ones on the Moorax, also through several earthquake faults?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1272	Without going directly into the project, I think the representative is aware that we all want to get the most out of the money. For this reason, the Swedish Road Administration is working with its projects and New Roads in such a way as to try to optimise the projects, reduce costs and make use of them. This, of course, also applies to this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1292	This question is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1306	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1314	This question, from the representative André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Economic Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Agriculture and Food as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1319	‘In Trønder-Avisa and NRK 2 February we could read that bacon from Coop’s EMV had a New Norway brand, but had Germany as its country of origin. Last October, 41 pst said. by Norwegian consumers, according to the Consumer Council, that they felt cheated as a result of poor labelling of food origin. This is not in line with the majority's remarks in the Storting's treatment of the daily food notification last year. What action will the Council of State take on the daily food industry in order to ensure better labelling of countries of origin on their own brands?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1326	The Code on Food Information and Food Labelling is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Care, and I am now responding in consultation with her. However, I am also concerned that we should have the right consumer information and good food labelling schemes. I would therefore like to work with the Minister of Health and Care to see how the government can best follow the Hurdal platform's desire for stricter labelling requirements for food. There is a need to look at the scope for action in the EEA Agreement, and there is also a need to influence the development of EU rules in order to strengthen EU trade mark legislation. There is reason to believe that the rules of origin will be strengthened as a result of these processes, and I will follow this closely with the Minister of Health and Care. But the representative is asking about two different things here. One is a case where bacon from Coops EMV had a New Norway brand, but had Germany as a country of origin. The government checked out the case with Coop, and they replied that these packages contained bacon produced in Norwegian raw materials, and they therefore thought it was right to use the New Norway brand on this. So Coop regrets that it was mislabelled as German. The second case of Skelstad refers to is a study where 41 pst. Norwegian consumers feel cheated as a result of poor labelling of food origin, according to the Consumer Council. There is no doubt that mislabelling causes confusion in consumers. It is therefore important that food information is not misleading, either in terms of content, characteristics, quantity or origin. Eight out of ten consumers know the New Norway brand and say it makes it easier to choose Norwegian food and drink. Six out of ten also say that the label makes them want to buy Norwegian food. This obligates the entire food value chain to follow up and ensure that labelling rules are followed at all stages of the chain. I support the commitment to the importance of consumer information and good food labelling schemes. In the Hurdal platform, the government is clear that we want stricter labelling requirements for food, both in the case of the country of origin and in the case of the production method, for example. use of antibiotics. It is also worth remembering that it is only one year since we were in this Chamber discussing a proposal for a representative on food labelling, where the Left voted on all the proposals that came from today's government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1339	It could well have been related to the fact that during that period we also had the daily message, so we thought that this was turning open the doors. In order to refer to the last sentence of the Committee, the Committee also agreed a year ago: ‘The Committee asks the Government to ensure clear labelling of the EMV with the producer and the country of origin of the products so that consumers can make informed choices.’ I have also noticed the bacon history in several newspapers – of course, that was the basis for the question – but this interests me a little. I have also checked several of my own brands in the stores, and at Coop in particular. It says New Norway on the front of the servelate packages and on other things, and there's a country of origin with little writing on the back: Germany. It could be other countries, too. So this was not the Committee's intention, and it was a unanimous comitology, no matter what the others might be. What does the Council of State intend to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1346	It is good that the representative is involved in this matter. It is also the Council of State and the Government. In the context of the review of the wholesale communications on the daily food industry at the last year’s turn of the year, the government parties – today’s government party – came up with a number of proposals for action and investigations we wanted the Solberg government to address. There was very little delivery, and there are still a lot of challenges in the industry. I will take that into account, and the government will take care of it. These include: on more transparency, the effects of vertical integration and the effect of an increasing proportion of chain EMC products. I can reassure the representative that the government has a great deal of focus on this area and is committed to exploiting both the commercial space as well as the trade space. exist in the EU, and in particular make consumers more aware of the choice of Norwegian food.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1353	I thank you for your answer. I think the Council of State is engaged in this. We had a big debate about self-esteem last year, and part of it was clarification, that it should be clear and not misleading information. This could at least indicate that it is, even though the Storting was clear about this last year. How will the Council of State now follow up on this further? Will there be any consequences for those involved in so-called misleading information on the packages? It is not enough to complain about a mistake marking, because it is obviously not just a mislabel on a bacon package, it is a mistake marking on quite a lot of other things. This must also have consequences. Is that what the Council of State intends to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1362	I fully agree with the representative that it is very unfortunate that mislabelling takes place. It is also important to say that the government follows up such fault marks, among other things. through review of procedures. I would also like to point out that I am very pleased that the Norwegian consumer has become very concerned about what you eat, and where it comes from. I believe that consumers have actually raised this issue and pushed the chains to take responsibility for food labelling as well. I can reassure the representative that the government will follow this matter closely and carefully. We are concerned that the food should be labelled Norwegian. We are also prepared to look at the action room to provide new markings, for example. use of antibiotics.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1372	‘The Minister of Agriculture has submitted a case to the Storting on financial support for business operators in its area of responsibility, which has been the result of exceptionally high electricity costs. [[agricultural and greenhouse industries]] Will the State Council take the initiative to provide rapid power support for small and medium-sized enterprises also in other industries where electricity expenditure is an essential part of operating expenditure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1379	We are known in a situation of unusually high power prices, and the government follows this situation closely every week. We are following the situation in the power market carefully, and we will not reject the fact that new grips can be involved. However, it is worth recalling that we have a responsibility to assess the boundaries between what is the responsibility of companies and what is the responsibility of the state. The companies are used to prices going up and down. These relate to raw materials, in terms of electricity, in terms of transport, and to other inputs. The question then arises as to the extent and manner in which Community funds may be used in a way that is overall best for society, and as to whether or not the country should be more specifically involved in compensating for such market fluctuations. Then I can assure the representative that the government is very concerned about the situation of businesses, not least the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. I myself am out and meet them regularly and listen to the situation. We also have regular and good dialogue with the social partners, and I understand very well that many companies now experience the situation as demanding. Unlike the agricultural sector, industry is covered by the EEA Agreement and any aid must therefore be designed within the framework of State aid law. And as I have previously informed Stortinget about, the EEA Code opens up so that we can give what is called de minimis support to businesses. It is then up to EUR 200000 within a three-year period, more precisely over three financial years. There is no need to lay down detailed requirements for the use of this aid and the financial limit applies in total to all aid granted under this de minimis legislation. It could therefore have consequences for enterprises that have received support from other institutions or other municipal or national schemes in the last three years. The Norwegian authorities have a relatively high degree of freedom as to how and for which purposes such aid is to be granted, including delimiting the aid to certain sectors. There are, as we know, extraordinary conditions that now make us in a situation of unusually high power prices. That's why, I think, it's so central to discuss what we're doing in the longer term to avoid a similar situation in the future. Then I believe that the most important thing we can do is to speed up the pace of new power deployment, primarily new renewable expansion. That's what the government is going to say about later today. The development of new renewable energy is a high priority task for us, and it is urgent to move forward. In this way, we can ensure that clean and reasonable power remains a Norwegian competitive advantage, and it will also be absolutely essential to succeed in the enormous green transition we are currently undergoing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1394	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council of State when he says about the long-term solutions, the importance of rapidly increasing access to renewable energy. I see with excitement until the Council of State has warned him to submit in an hour, which may become an important element in it. But as the Council of State also says, the extraordinary situation is right now. Last night, for example. I was contacted by a small company in Sandfjord with 15 years' work, a normal annual turnover of 8 million. kr., which says that they are now fully on the rim due to authority-enforcement measures. The support schemes recently failed to reach them. The total turnover in January is now down to NOK 60 000, and then it dumps into the post a power bill for January of NOK 50 000. It is nice that the Council of State says that one will not refuse to come back to the scheme, but there are actually some companies that are now in it in other industries – and it is now burning. I have to ask again, when the Council of State says that he won't refuse to come up with anything: what is the timetable for that, and what concrete thing is it that these companies can see in a meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1401	We'll get back to that, maybe. But as I say to the representative, there are some fundamental aspects of such arrangements that then need to be carefully highlighted. We can end up in a situation where other parts of the business world also experience changing framework conditions as a result of fluctuations in prices in the world market. The finished product industry is experiencing a sharp increase in the prices of timber. It concerns steel prices, in the case of transport prices. We're facing a paycheck. We know that interest rates are going up and down, and that the exchange rate is fluctuating. And I think we should be careful to create an established expectation that the state is a kind of insurance fund for the responsibility that businesses have taken every year. That's why we don't take these questions easy. I would also like to say that the reduction in the electricity tax that this government has done will also benefit business. We estimate that approx. 1 billion. kr goes to business there. And businesses with a loss of turnover as a result of pandemics will also receive – indirectly at least – support for electricity billing through the national compensation scheme, which is still active.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1408	I'm in agreement with the Council of State that one should think carefully about what the precedent is creating through such arrangements, so I share the principleal points of view. The point is that now the government has made an assessment for agriculture and the greenhouse economy and that there is such a special situation that it is right to set up schemes. One has also been told that it is possible to do this formally for other industries. I mean, a Finn business and businesses where the situation is now so pressing that it's right. For example, a small sawmill in District Norway, which is as hard a frame, has as little ability to get out of the current crisis now in the short term. The left has launched a very concrete initiative to use a variety of municipal compensation schemes, i.e. to spend resources on the municipalities in this power crisis area to help companies there. Does the Council agree that it may be a possible model to continue working on, so that we can quickly get support in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1413	The proposal from the Left shall be taken into consideration by the Stortinget. In the case of schemes, and in the case of all schemes, they should at least be sufficiently accurate and should be able to deal with those who are set to deal with them. Now I understand the Left's proposal as a maximum limit of 1 billion. kr that the municipalities are responsible for distributing. I did a quick bill here before the Question Time today, and with 164,000 potential beneficiaries, i.e. the small and medium-sized enterprises in the zones that now have high power prices, it is a relatively demanding operation for municipalities to handle potentially 164,000 applications for pandemic management and under all the schemes that are there. There's also a question to the representative how much this will actually amount to with a maximum of 1 billion. kr. I think the proposal might make it visible why this is a difficult issue, but at this stage we do not reject any action.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1418	Question 16 has been moved. Let's move on to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1426	‘In Ryfylke, farmers are on the waiting list for electricity. Lights say they have to wait five years. For example, continue to operate 35 pst. of the tomato production of some tomato gardeners on gas, but they will do the energy consumption 100 pst. renewable. The government removed the CO 2 tax exemption for the greenhouse industry in 2022 and will increase the tax considerably by 2030. This is the Progress Party against. Now we see that it will hit farmers and businesses in Ryfylke hard. In the Question Time on 5 January, the Council of State said that the government would assess compensatory measures where the CO 2 tax would be inappropriate. What does the Council of State put in this?"
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1439	As I also said here in Stortinget on 5 January, it was actually the Solberg government that first proposed to cancel the tax exemption for the use of CO 2 in greenhouses. The Solberg Government, for which the Progress Party has both been a part and subsequently a budgetary partner, proposed that the levy should be imposed at 20 pst. of the normal level of the CO 2 charge. Our government thought it was too high a rate and suggested introducing the fee of 10 pst. – a very low level. This will mean a cost increase in 2022 of about 2 million. kr for the whole of the greenhouse industry as a whole. The climate agreement is the basis for the work on climate change in agriculture also for this government. For us, it is absolutely crucial that the climate target for agriculture be achieved without jeopardising food production. Therefore, emission reductions must mainly be achieved by reducing emissions per unit of output and also by minimising fossil emissions as much as possible. All the combustion of mineral products adds fossil carbon to the atmosphere. I want to give the greenhouse industry a great reward for the job already done in reducing fossil fuel use significantly. The good work carried out by the industry in this area has also been the reason for maintaining the exemption until now, although such a charge has been imposed on all other industries. However, in order to achieve its full objective, we believe that it is now necessary to abolish the exemption from the CO 2 tax on natural gas and LPG. We therefore propose a prudent and gradual imposition of a levy to give the greenhouse industry an enhanced economic incentive to reduce the use of fossil gas, while giving the industry time to adapt to the high level of taxation. With regard to the individual cases referred to by the representative Steffensen, where some farmers do not have a real opportunity to connect to the mains power source, I have asked for an overview of the specific problem and the scope. Finally, I must mention that there is a very difficult situation for Norwegian agriculture now, as the representative of Steffensen also knows, and the government has, as you know, promoted a power package for agriculture, which includes the greenhouse industry. The compensation shall be paid by the Directorate of Agriculture and shall be based on data provided by the RME, the Energy Regulatory Authority. It works intensely almost 24 hours a day to get the details of this. I am concerned that the money will be paid as quickly as possible, and the Agriculture Directorate aims to start with payments as early as the end of February. The current mechanism will also address the acute liquidity challenges arising from the extremely high current prices in which many are currently operating, including for the greenhouse gas industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1463	The council mentions that it was the Solberg government that proposed to remove the tax exemption, and that is quite correct, but the Progress Party had never accepted that it would happen. I hear that the Council of State believes that it was a correct assessment of the Solberg government, and that they have also planned to increase the CO 2 tax in the years to come. It was verbally quoted from what the Council of State said. My question, on the other hand, was about what compensatory measures the government would bring with the CO 2 tax, which would be unfortunate. I hear the Council is talking about a power support system that has been put in place, but these are gardeners who are not allowed to switch to power, but still depending on gas. So I ask again, what does the Council of State add to «compensatory measures in which the CO 2 tax cancels unluckily»?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1479	I have to remind you again that the government has actually halved the CO 2 tax compared to what the Solberg government proposed. Then, in the state budget, it is signalled that this fee should be increased gradually, but no decision has been made on this or whether anyone should be exempted. Of course, we must now follow the consequences of this charge, without I can say anything more about it now. But that the government has started a work to collect information on the individual cases to which the representative refers, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1487	I am pleased that the government and the minister will check the specific cases in particular. Several tomato gardeners in Rogaland have also said that they consider not to plant new plants due to high gas prices and the sharp increase in the price of gas in the last year, because the calculation simply does not go up. Now we hear that the Council is talking about power support, but I wonder about the government, to be able to hold Norwegian tomatoes and not to have to put the greenhouse industry down, will also come up with measures against high gas prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1494	As I pointed out in my answer, and as I have shown in a lot of answers in this big business, the government is now actually adding a power pack on the table that will also benefit the greenhouse industry, a power pack without a maximum, which will also benefit the greenhouse industry. As far as the specific cases referred to by the representative Steffensen are concerned, where a few farmers do not have a real opportunity to connect to the power grid, I have, as I said, asked to get a concrete overview of the issues and not least the scope – how many are they talking about. I would like to point out that the green industry is incredibly important for this government, and the green industry is also incredibly important to achieve the government's goal of increasing the self-sufficiency rate in Norway to 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1506	‘The Hurdal Platform states that the Government will ‘ensure that the best interests of the child are a fundamental consideration in the treatment of child-related asylum cases’ and that ‘the Government will review practices in assessing the child’s best interests in order to ensure that concrete and individual assessments are made on a case-by-case basis’. When will the Council of State ensure that words and action are taken in this area of policy in the light of the recent media cases in which mothers with children in Norway have been decided to be sent out of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1513	The representative refers to individual matters that have been mentioned in the media, and the Storting has expressly stated that it is the Foreign Directorate and the Foreign Office that are to deal with individual matters without the involvement of the Ministry. It is therefore neither correct nor possible for me to comment on or go into the handling of specific individual matters. The government wants Norway to be a driver for the protection of children’s rights on a refugee basis. Children’s issues are given high priority and legal certainty, speed and effectiveness must be ensured so that children’s and young people’s lives are not put on hold. In order to follow-up the Hurdal Platform, the Government of the 2022 Letters of Allocation to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Foreign Affairs has requested that the agencies report on how they ensure that the best interests of the child are a fundamental concern in asylum matters affecting children. They shall also describe the priority given to single minor asylum seekers. This will provide a description in their annual reports for 2022. The Government has also asked the Directorate for Foreign Affairs to publish a mission in which the contractor will go through a certain number of decisions from the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Directorate with a view to identifying whether sufficient concrete and individual assessments are made of the child’s best interests in each case. The task will be specified in a separate letter from the Ministry which is now being prepared. Furthermore, the Ministry has now received the report from a working group that has been tasked with assessing the threshold for expulsion in matters relating to children. The report provides a good basis for assessing the dilemmas of expulsion cases due to serious violations of the foreign law where the deportee has children. On behalf of the UDI, in 2021, Fafo started a research work to clarify whether there are grounds for changes in legislation and practice in the consultation of children in expulsion cases. The Fafo report is scheduled to be completed in the summer of 2022 and will also serve as a basis for the Ministry's further assessments of questions relating to the consultation of children in expulsion proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1524	In answer to my written question to the Council of State on 28 January on whether immigration policy considerations are more important than the right of Norwegian children to safe growth conditions, the Council of State answers: ‘However, even if the Convention on the Rights of the Child establishes that the best interests of the child are fundamental, other considerations may be essential in each case. This will typically be immigration-regulating and general prevention considerations.’» It may be worth noting that the Human Rights Committee of the Psychologists Association believes that Norwegian practice in broadcasting matters involving children is contrary to professional knowledge of children’s needs and development. My question to the Council of State is therefore: can the Council of State clearly state to this Chamber that immigration-regulating considerations are more important than the best of the child in broadcasting matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1534	The best interests of the child are a fundamental consideration. But that is not necessarily the decisive consideration, as the representative summed up well himself. Let me be the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1539	Then it is to be understood that immigration-regulating considerations can often trump children’s best. As the Council of State was also involved, yesterday a report from the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which I read with great interest, was presented. In this respect, the sample concludes that, as a general rule, foreigners with children in Norway should not be expelled in the event of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act, and the majority of the sample also points out that it can be said over time that they have established a strict practice that could create some doubt as to whether children’s rights are adequately elevated, in the balance between the country’s and the child’s own interests. The majority also emphasise, and this is important, that there is a political question of whether a person wishes to adopt regulatory changes involving the amendment of the legislation. My question to the Council of State is therefore whether she can clearly and clearly say that she will politically follow the recommendations of the sample, or is it to understand that the Council of State is more concerned with continuing the immigration policy legacy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1546	No, I can't say now that I'm going to go in for all the suggestions that the sample has made. The Ministry has now received a report that will provide us with a good basis for assessing the dilemmas in these matters in the time to come. Now we're going to get really involved in the report and look at what's there. I would also like to stress that that working party has not found any decisive differences between Norwegian practice and our obligations under international law. It is too early to say whether we will make changes that will affect the threshold in expulsion cases. These are questions that we have to get back to. We got the report very recently, so that's good reason to make careful reflections and look at this in a proper way before we possibly make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1554	‘On Wednesday 2 February, the Council of State stated that Bredtvet appears to be the only current site for new Oslo prison. These opinions, together with the report by Stadsbyggs, which recommends Bredtvet, are of great concern in Groruddalen that the government will overrun Oslo’s wishes and the local population and build new prisons in Bredtvetskogen. Will the Central Party follow up its clear promises from the election campaign and preserve the Brettvetskogen, and place Oslo prison elsewhere?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1561	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank Kaski for his commitment to this matter. It is an important question, where we are going to locate a replacement prison for today's Oslo prison, which is in very poor condition. It is time-critical to find an alternative to prison in Greenland, which can actually be closed at any time. It's not exactly quoted, but I've said that Bredtvet appears to be the only real option in Oslo where we are now. I think it has been important to be honest about that, because if you choose to place the prison outside Oslo, which then becomes the alternative to Bredtvet, there are also some consequences that I think the Municipality of Oslo must be given the opportunity to take a decision before you possibly reject a prison in Oslo. A new prison, wherever it is, will provide better housing for prisoners, and it will provide better employment for employees. New prisons – and especially anti-Old Oslo prisons – will provide a better opportunity for activation and less isolation, and I am very concerned that we are going to do so. The government does not want to overrun Oslo Municipality in this matter, and we want to listen to the recordings that are coming, but we are also concerned about ensuring sufficient capacity in the criminal justice system. Based on the conducted locational analyses that have been carried out – there has been a long process around this now – there are no good alternative plots in Oslo. So the alternative to Bredtvet is to move the prison out of Oslo, and I think that, as I said at the outset, it's important and right to be honest where we are now. As we have discussed earlier, expansion on the Bredtvet will also be very important for women, because today's reconciliation for women is worse than for men. It is also the only option for new Oslo prison that will provide a new female prison and equalize the reconciliation conditions for women and men. The government is aware of the local commitment to preserving the Bretweet Forest and the views expressed by the people of the Groruddalen, and I take this very seriously. This is precisely why the government has asked the ministry to look at a different solution to the proposals that have been made earlier, with fewer prisons, so that you can have a smaller prison on Bredtvet, which will take less forest. We're working on that right now, to see if it's possible to further scale the prison down without jeopardising the prisoners and the possibility of free areas and rehabilitation for them. For practical reasons, there may be good reasons why a prison should have some proximity to the property and police station in Oslo, among others. because of transport-related efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1578	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. The Council of State emphasises the need to improve the reconciliation of the prisoners and to improve the employment of employees, and there is a need for the SV to share. Also, on that basis, there is reason to be concerned about the plans that relate to Bredtvet. The plans that exist so far, before the scale down, have already been downgraded once. It is a downscaling that the Directorate of Criminal Welfare warned against because the per-prisoner's place will be less than that required by the prison supervisor. Crime has also pointed out that the site has large height differences, that the location of today's building mass on the site, with planned functions, is not favourable in terms of exploitation, logistics, security zones and protection, that there will be too little space outside, both for the female prisoners and for the male prisoners, and that there is little room for expansion. How does new scale-down plans focus?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1585	As I said, the department is working on a new proposal, and I'll come back with it as soon as we have it. I mean, it's urgent to get on with this. Then we have to see if that proposal can meet some of the wishes that are local in the Groruddalen. It is important to me that we have criminal services in Norway that are not only a punishment but also facilitate rehabilitation, and that make us use as much insulation as possible. Where we are now, we would very much like to wish we had more alternatives in Oslo, because there has been a lot of local protest on the Bredtvet, but we haven't. Then we must also take responsibility for replacing Oslo prison. No matter where the prison is, there are some considerations to compromise with. That is what the debate is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1594	That's exactly what's at the heart of this issue -- the reasons you're focusing on, and how it's calculated. From the Statsbygg report, there is no doubt that it is through the fact that there is in particular the cost argument that makes Bredtvet the preferred option. I miss a perspective in the work done by Statsbyggen, and, as far as communication is concerned, for one thing is to recognise the local resistance, which has been great, and which is great on Bredtvet – 650 people went on torch on Sunday to preserve our Bredtvetskogen – but how are the value of those natural areas, the green areas, calculated when assessing new land for new prison? Is the loss of important green areas for the local population, the loss of open spaces and the loss of a nearby forest for the people living there, for the young people who otherwise live in one of Norway's most densely populated areas, where the value of being able to go home from kindergarten through a small forest where you can experience wildlife and not asphalt roads is so great?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1599	Obviously, it's a great value to have green areas where you live, whether you live in Oslo or somewhere else in the country. That is also why I have said that it is not appropriate to go for some of the biggest options on the Bredtvet that you have discussed so far. There are many demanding considerations in this matter. There are other plots that could be thought of in Oslo, for example. on the Högenstua. There are basic conditions, plot sizes and other things that make the plot a problem. The plot on Kolbotn, just outside the city border, is not for sale, and there is also a lot of local resistance. You take care of the prisoners and their relationship and closeness to family for those who live in Oslo, and then you take care of the police and that there will be no excessive costs for them. This is a matter where it's impossible to satisfy everybody's wishes at the same time, so here we have to try to find good solutions, and that's what the department is working on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1615	The question is taken up by Kristoffer Robin Haug, but he is not seen, so we will proceed to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1624	That's a good thing, so we can follow the same theme. ‘Oslo prison currently has a very high maintenance needs. The Bredtvet, which State Building again points to as an alternative to new prison, will involve the construction of an important natural area for the Groruddalen. Thus, the previous government started work along two parallel tracks — both an extension of today’s prison at Ullersmo and a work to find another site for a new prison outside Oslo. Will the Council of State complete the work of the previous government to find an alternative that does not involve construction on the Bredtvet?’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1633	Like Mr Kaski, I would like to thank Mr Elvesuen for his commitment to this issue of locating new prisons in Oslo. As I was in the previous round, the prison in Oslo is in very poor condition, and, as most people know, it is urgent that we move on. There is a decommissioning notice for Oslo Prison from 2019, which means that no further operations can be guaranteed, and I feel that it is an important responsibility for the inter-political environment to find good solutions for a new Oslo prison. Then the representative shows Elvesuen what's been done before, and it's quite right that there's been a lot of rounds here. This matter has been going on for a long time. Two locational analyses have been carried out to find a new site for Oslo prison, but unfortunately it appears that it is difficult to find a suitable new site that meets all wishes. The previous government started a search for land because the resistance on the Bredtvet was as great as it was. Now we would very much like to see that the plot search had resulted in an alternative in Oslo, but as the case stands now, it is – perhaps unfortunately – the width that is still the only real option in Oslo, as I see it, because the other plots are either located outside Oslo, or there are conditions attached to them that make them less suitable. Of course, the Ministry will now use time, study the location analysis from Statsbyggen carefully and evaluate this issue in the light of all the input we receive. But as I said to the representative Kaski, it has been important for me to be honest that now it appears that Bredtvet is the only real option in Oslo. Then you have to decide – also the municipality of Oslo – whether to have a prison in Oslo or not. There might be good reasons for moving it out. There are many municipalities that want these jobs, but it will also be at the expense of some other reasons, such as: consideration of police and efficiency related to transport to and from the courts, in particular with regard to custody sites. Then there is also a part that has expressed itself that the prisoners need settlements in Oslo, because some come from Oslo, and you need good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo on health challenges in prison, psychiatry, and not least return to society afterwards. The government understands that the local population wants to protect as much as possible of the Bredtvetskogen. That is also why I have rejected the previous proposals that have been put forward and asked for a new proposal, which is smaller and which allows us to retain more of the forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1646	I thank you for your answer. One of the reasons why the Bredtvat appears attractive by the state is about travel times, but the other is that one believes that one can build in a natural area, which no other player would be allowed to enter. There is no private person who would be allowed to use those areas. So what I'm asking is: the report does not reject the other options – it says in the report. It points out that Haugenstua should be kept warm, that it should go further. You go into Mastyr, which is also close. There is also evidence that there may be problems with the regulation plan and getting in touch, but there is nothing different than that on the Bredtvet. In the case of Ullensaker, you can see that this is more about having contact with the municipality, and then you will be able to get a connection there. So my question is, can we be sure that you not only sit and evaluate the Bredtvet and its application, but go on with the other proposals? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1657	One must stay within the time limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1662	As I said, the ministry will evaluate different solutions, but I don't think it's more real alternatives in Oslo. In the case of the land on Mastyry, on which the representative was in the house, as I know, the plot is not for sale. There's also a lot of local resistance there, so there's really many of the same arguments that are against the Bredtvet, coming in. The plot on the Haugenstua is small, it's insecure base conditions, and there's a lot of other things that also make it appear less topical. Then – again – the same argument comes in: If you think you can't have it on the Bredtvet because it's too small, should you have it on a small plot on the Haugenstua? There are no simple solutions to this issue. I see the matter so now that Bredtvet is the real option in Oslo. If you want to move the prison out of Oslo, it might be a good solution, but you also have to be aware of the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1669	I thank you again for the answer. I believe that the Council of State then has a different view from what you can derive from the report, which says that you can go on with Mastyr, and that you can go on with the Haugenstua. So this is weighted up against the natural values that are on the Bredtvet, which, in my opinion, makes that plot out of date, because those natural values have so much value. That's the nature it's about. This is not a park area; it is nature, as the state then – if you choose it – becomes the greatest driver for building down, as it has often been in Oslo, something that no one else could do. Again: This is a demanding matter, but the previous government started the process of finding an alternative to Bredtvet. I feel that now it's really about dragging Bredtvet back into the core of the discussion. My question is, once again, do you want to run the other races to find an alternative to Bredtvet? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1678	The department is working on finding a solution to this problem. The problem is that the process the previous government started to find an alternative to the Bredtvet, came back with a report that pointed to the Bredtvet. For example: Masturbation: Of course, on the Stortinget or in the government, we think we can put it on Masturbation, but then we also have to run the local population, then we have to expropriate from an owner who doesn't want to sell. So it's not just simple, either. The problem here is that there are challenges no matter what you choose to do. It is a matter of whether the prison should be close to Oslo or located in Oslo. Where we are now, we are going to make thorough assessments in the ministry, but I have also been concerned about being honest about where the matter stands, so that the politicians in Oslo can decide on it on the actual basis, as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1685	Then your case no. End of 2
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1699	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1709	I ask for the floor in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure: ‘At the end of each meeting, the President shall give the representatives the opportunity to point out any procedural errors.’;» I want to point out what I think is wrong, and get permission to justify it – relatively briefly, but I need to spend some time. Section 72, on oral Question Time, states: ‘In the oral question procedure, members of the Government respond to questions put by representatives orally.’;» In today's Question Time, concrete questions were asked to the finance minister, both from Tina Bru and from Hans Andreas Limi, without the Council of State trying to answer the questions at all, but talked about completely different things. It is often not abnormal, but today it was such a gross example that one was not close to trying to answer, especially the questions from Hans Andreas Limi, that there must be a mistake in the proceedings today when the president did not address this. I think this has been a development that has not been good, so I would ask the President to take a presidency discussion on the implementation of oral Question Time, to ensure what is in the Rules of Procedure, that this is a Question Time, not a debate. The councils are here to answer concrete questions and not talk about completely different things and the politics of other parties. I would ask the President to ensure that there is a debate on how to lead the Question Time for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-02-09.ana.ud3e1728	The President has registered the opinion of Mr Carl I. Hagen. The meeting has thus been cancelled.
