ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e62	The representatives Eigil Knutsen, Øystein Mathisen, Wilfred Nordlund and Mona Fagerås who have been licensed have once again taken their seats. The called alternate for Hordaland, Sigbjørn Framnes, is now taking the seat. From 11 to 13 May to take part in a trip under the auspices of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to The Hague in the Netherlands, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Party's Group for leave of the representative Sverre Myrli. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: That application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The Vara representative, Anita Patel, is invited to meet in Stortinget on 11 and 12 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e107	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e112	On behalf of the representative Kathy Lie and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a national initiative for creative industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e117	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e124	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Ingerd Schou. – Other proposals are not available, and Mr Schou is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e144	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e161	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e178	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e185	First, I would like to thank the Committee for the good cooperation we have had through this process, for the recordings that have come, and for the good dialogue that has been. This is a matter that is important for urban development in Ålesund Municipality. I would like to refer to the Department's assessment of the proposal for a representative, where it appears that the Department does not have any reason to propose changes to the Urban Package Ålesund now. In the case of the State project E136 Breivika-Lerstad, the Ministry indicates that it is through the treatment of St.meld. 20 for 2020-2021, cf. Inner. 653 S for 2020-2021, part-financing with tolls has been established. This means a lot to the local population and those living in the region. E136 Breivika-Lerstad has been decisive to implement the Ålesund Urban Package. The road is placed in a tunnel outside Lerstad. This is a major improvement in building quality and quality of life for those living in the area. I have seen it myself with my own eyes and also heard from members of the local government in Ålesund, who can tell us about the commitment and the desire behind this. It's a very big improvement in the quality of the buildings for those who live there. Getting rid of the traffic that is now being opened up means a lot. It means a lot to the quality of life they're getting the noise out of traffic, with the tunnel coming there, and I get it. The project has been in demand for a long time, precisely because it gives so many benefits to the local population. In particular, the urban package will provide a major improvement in the provision of public transport. It will be better for buses and give more collective connections, such as bus stops now smarter, and people will be able to park in the vicinity of the city, in Spjelkavik, and take a bus on. The city package also includes a number of improvements for the sick and walking. These are important road safety measures that are well received. We want to stand firm on what we have done, and implement the urban package as it stands today.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e202	Ålesund has waited a long time for an urban package and has finally received it – a scaled-down package. The zero growth target was set at Stortinget in the climate agreement already in 2012 and this implies that the growth in urban passenger transport is to be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. We need different tools to achieve our goals and to improve accessibility and reduce the queue around our cities. Now the Progress Party in this case is talking about the will of the people, but there is no doubt that the majority of the City Council in Ålesund has agreed to the package that the Storting has now adopted – and they must represent the will of the people. Now, tolls are also part of the prerequisites for improving accessibility and reducing queues. Another prerequisite for development and good housing is good collective provision and road safety for cycling and walking. This proposal will stop the development of Ålesund and the region. We've listened to the region's priorities, and so did we when we worked with NTP. We are now waiting for feedback on other types of projects, because the national transport plan was attached to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e209	Road development engages, priority of routes also engages. Sometimes a set of discussions is needed to make a decision in order to move forward. Long-term rematches may delay important infrastructure projects for many years. It is a fundamental principle that road toll financing should be based on local political anchoring before Stortinget takes the final decision; it also has this case. Less than a year ago, Stortinget adopted the City Pack Ålesund. This decision came as a result of two years earlier the adoption of a local policy decision to establish an urban package for Ålesund, and the decision is also anchored in the national transport plan. The municipality of Ålesund decided on 6 June 2019 to enter into an urban package, and eleven days later, the municipality of More and the municipality of Romsdal took similar decisions. Two years after the local decisions, the urban package as mentioned was adopted in Stortinget. One year after that again, there will be a rematch. During this period of government, we have seen a government just sitting and waiting for local resistance and conflict. It is a dream situation for a government to cut the budget for transport. The simplest exercise of all cuts is to postpone projects, put them on hold. This project, too, will be postponed forever if the proposal for a representative is adopted. I would like to see that we had managed to build roads without tolls, but unfortunately it is not feasible. We are a small country in the number of inhabitants and a large country in relation to the number of kilometres of road. The right therefore supports the majority in rejecting the draft representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e220	53 B.C.E. The Norwegian State charges car and car-related taxes from the car list. In many ways, one can say that there is a solid highway robbery in the Norwegian people, because today’s government has committed approximately. 19 B.C.E. SEK for road construction in 2022 – 19 billion. kr. 53 B.C.E. kr is taken into account in car and car-related taxes, in addition to 15 billion. Tolls. If that's not enough with the 15 billion. Tolls, one here in the Urban Package Ålesund will take 3.9 billion. kr in tolls to finance a project for approx. 4,5 B.C.E. kr. There is no torch or flag hoisting in Ålesund City Packet Ålesund. People and business are, in fact, unlikely little happy to have to pay $3.9 billion. kr to finance something they should not use. The cars and especially the industry shall not use the measures built in the Urban Package Ålesund. When one of the biggest industries we have along the coast, the fishing industry, for example. to run the dead salmon through the Ålesund and beyond to Europe afterwards and to the market, they must therefore pay tolls for pedestrian and cycle roads within the Ålesund. None of those running the salmon are going to use these measures inside Ålesund City, and no one else is going to use it, because people want to choose other solutions. People want to choose Stryn, Ørsta, Volda, other major regional centers because they don't want to pay tolls for something they don't want to use. The principle that what you pay for should be reused is not present in this city package. That's why we're against City Pack Ålesund. So we hear that the Council of State is also planning to introduce tolls and increase the rates of electric cars. A large part of the people in Norway have bought an electric car, and then, of course, taxes and charges will also weigh that area down, equal to everything else. It is quite special when one takes many times more in car and car-related charges than one user on the road. 53 B.C.E. NOK into car and car-related taxes and NOK 15 billion. DKK in tolls to build roads for 10 to 15 billion. kr, that's highway robbery. I take up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e235	The representative Frank Edvard Sve has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e240	What's a city package? Urban packages cover road construction, public transport and pedestrian and cycle paths, and urban packages provide better and safer roads, better collective provision and new cycle paths. In my opinion, this is a holistic approach to infrastructure in our cities. But it is not for the Progress Party. For the Progress Party, a driver is only a driver – but it really isn't. I'm a driver! But I have kids who bike both at school and at football practice, and I have an old mother who goes to the store and trades. I want them to have safe foothills and safe bike paths. I even find myself going for a walk to my city, to shop or just to get some fresh air. I'm also a frequent user of public transport, especially here in Oslo, although evil tongues think I should go more. But such an overall thinking does not have the Progress Party, for the Progress Party is a motorist only. In Tromsø they now laugh after the department has sent out signals that the financing of the urban package is going to be difficult. I understand them, because the urban package is important for the whole of the traffic picture – but not important for the Progress Party. I even think the salmon will have safe roads, so it can get safe. When the Progress Party was in the Ministry of Transport, it was a zero growth target, i.e. that the growth of urban passenger transport was to be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. Then it was an important principle for the Progress Party, but not like that anymore. I would also like to remind the Progress Party of the historical growth of toll collection, the historical increase in the number of toll stations and the historical growth of toll debt at that time the Progress Party had the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport. That Ålesund will now get a badly needed city package, I think it's good to stop it is unprofessional, nothing less.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e251	Had Ålesund been a town in stagnation or in decline in the populace, we had no use for any Urban Package Ålesund. Luckily, Ålesund is not it – Ålesund is a growing city. Then we have to find solutions for this growth that will enable both Ålesund and Ålesund regions to grow – which is good for the whole of the North-West and for Norway – and that it will be good to live there, while at the same time we reach the national targets that were referred to by the previous speaker, namely that the Stortinget, with the support of the Progress Party, has set a zero growth target which means that all growth in urban passenger transport is to be taken by collective, bicycle and times. Then we have to get good spice layers that the state is also in, with local government powers and traffic agents. That's exactly what the City Package Ålesund is all about. It's a whole package to make sure that Ålesund is a good city for everyone. In general, half of the money here will be used to build a road tunnel from Moa to Lerstad, a large and important road project, and the other half will be used for traffic safety, collective action and bicycle roads, among others. to build a new collective hub at Ålesund Hospital, a new bridge over Brusundet, an environmental street and measures around the campus – simply to ensure that the growing Ålesund centre in the future has a reliable and efficient transport system for all modes of transport, which at the same time provides good urban development and makes it good for people to live and live there. Left has been a strong supporter of putting these city packages in place. We were a proponent to get them in place for the very largest cities first, and we have been a proponent in the next run to get them in place for the medium-sized cities of Norway, including Ålesund. This is a forward-looking way of thinking, and it makes it possible to live a good life in cities, either human or fish. I am pleased that there is a broad plurality in the hall here today and in the committee that rejects it, in my view, quite horrific the idea of scraping this package and thus putting future urban development in Ålesund at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e262	Urban package Ålesund was treated by Stortinget on 15 June last year, when Stortinget agreed to the package. The content of this urban package is based on local policy decisions. I am therefore surprised that the representative of the Progress Party and the proposers want to review the decisions taken by the democratically elected local People's Party. According to the proposal, representatives of the Progress Party claim that there is significant local resistance in the population and the business community to the Urban Package Ålesund. But it is now time for local authorities, on behalf of the population and businesses of the Ålesunds region, to adopt the urban package as it exists. It is a fundamental principle for toll financing that there is local political support. The representatives of the Progress Party seem to believe that the measures contained in this package are a wrong priority in relation to the projects they consider to be appropriate to implement. A number of measures which are considered important to be implemented but which are not part of the adopted urban package are outlined. At the same time, the representatives want less toll. It's basically not very connected. The role of the State in matters like this is to ensure that the professional approach to funding and implementation is realistic and that it is within the framework of what the Storting has put in place. It is both about the choice of projects and actions in the package and how to finance them. In addition, the recovery plan, i.e.: toll station location, tariff system and tariff level shall be in accordance with the applicable guidelines. Moreover, it is important that local authorities stay within a realistic economic framework. All of this underpins the state’s quality assurance of the local proposal for the Ålesund Urban Package. City Package Ålesund has an economic framework of 4 billion. kr. The original Ålesund proposal had a double-level financial framework. I have let myself say that my predecessor in the Ministerial chair, who otherwise represented the Advance Party and had a background from More and Romesdal, contributed to the fact that the adopted package now appears to be more sober. Toll collection in the Urban Package Ålesund is scheduled to start in 2022, and I do not see the need for us to make changes to it now. The urban package has been treated locally, adopted in Ålesund municipality and More and Romesdal county municipality, and dealt with and adopted in the Stortinget in June last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e283	In June 2019 Ålesund municipality and More and Romesdal county council decided that they wanted to establish a urban package for Ålesund, so that road sections would be expanded. The decision of the municipality and the county council also states that the development should be financed by tolls. In this proposal for a representative, the rapporteurs ask that the planning of the Ålesund urban package be halted and claim that this is in line with the will of the people in the city. In Norway we have a representative democracy, and in 2019 two levels therefore agreed that they wanted the Ålesund urban package. If it is the will of the people to stop the project, I expect that both the municipality and the county council have turned around and decided to abolish what they themselves decided in June 2019. My question to the Council of State is: Has the municipality and the county lifted its decisions on the urban package Ålesund and toll financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e290	No, there's nothing to suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e295	The representative proposes that the Swedish Road Administration should proceed as soon as possible in the planning of the new E39 Vegsund-Breivika. My question to the Council of State is: Has this initiative come from Ålesund Municipality and County Municipality, or is this an initiative which comes first through this proposal for a representative?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e302	I can't answer that. I'm not familiar with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e307	The Minister of Transport says that the desire to build more roads like the Breivika binding, which has gone beyond 30,000 cars a day, does not depend entirely on the fact that one does not want to have tolls. Then my question to the Minister for Transport is: Can the Minister explain that it is hanging together that the state takes over 50 billion. NOK in car and car-related charges – 15 billion. Tolls, then, are in the Minister’s own government budget – assuming that one should build a road for 19 billion. kr, which is now signaled to be severely cut? How does it depend on a person continuing to charge tolls, when one actually does not use the money that is consumed in car and car-related charges, and actually does not use the toll revenue either? How's that for hopping?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e312	How Norwegian roads are financed through tolls has a long history – as far back as I know to the 1980s. And it requires, as I said in my post, local political treatment, it requires regional policy treatment, and it requires national treatment. Toll proposals have been promoted for both single sections and urban packages over many years. It has been submitted to the Magnitude of the undersigned, and it has been presented by my predecessors. It has been presented by the Progress Party in government, and it has been presented by the Labour Party in government, and basically all parties have joined it. And as a representative said in a previous post, it is actually such that under the Progress Party in the Ministry of Transport, the collection of tolls increased considerably and flattened out to a higher level than it was before the government change in 2013. So the Progress Party is not particularly opposed to tolls, at least not when they get power.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e317	I believe that the Minister for Transport has taken a good look at how the road was built in the past, and the fact that with the Progress Party in the government, we built far, far more way. We built, among other things, 280 km with four-field highway, and the toll section went down from over 40 pst. For approx. 20 pst. The Minister of Transport agrees that when one takes 53 billion. NOK in car-related charges, 15 billion. kr in tolls, it looks strange when you're going to build a road for 19 billion. kr, that one must continue to collect tolls? Isn't that very strange?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e322	I guess it's not much stranger than it's been under the previous governments. The funding model is quite exactly the same. The Advance Party has been willing to take in tolls in the government, and city packages have been voted for in this Storting when you have been in government. So I think it speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e327	Urban packages provide better and safer roads, better collective provision, new bike routes and are a sensible, holistic approach to infrastructure in our cities. But as I was in my post in the past, the entire political leadership in Tromsø sits and almost laughs because the department has given them signals that financing the urban package there can be difficult. This has raised questions about how this government will give priority to the important urban packages in the future, so my question becomes to the Minister: How will this government give priority to the urban packages in the future? Is this also a priority on the part of the Minister for Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e332	We started, unlike the previous government, a process with Tromsø. We have created a mandate that has been approved by the government, and we have started the negotiations. What was a good deal of discussion about in Tromsø, of course, was a letter we sent to the State Road Service, where we said what is quite obvious, at least for most here, namely that you cannot establish a framework for negotiations economically until we have a government budget in place in this room. Moreover, when you start urban growth negotiations, it is almost strange to think that the result should be presented in advance. There's a negotiation process where you have to achieve some goals, and the economic aspect is part of the package. This government has ambitions to set up urban growth agreements, but we are in a situation where we need to prioritise differently nationally, and that could, of course, also affect the framework of urban growth agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e337	The chord shift has been completed. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e345	There is no doubt that in the case of the toll debate, the other parties are quite distinct from the Progress Party. It is claimed that the Progress Party demanded a lot of toll in the government: yes, it is because it was a historic road effort – over a doubling in the road budgets. There has never been so much road construction in Norway as under the Progress Party in government. So I guess everyone knows that the toll percentage in the road projects went down. In the case of urban packages, I also think it's well known to the whole country, at least for this hall and other parties, that it was a toll settlement. It was because it was a Progress Party State Council that focused on bringing down the costs of these urban packages, precisely because it is quite unreasonable – it has been intended by the Progress Party in government, and also in this Chamber – to charge tolls for something the drivers should not use. There has also been a debate in this Chamber earlier this year about what I called the ‘luxury trap’. It's okay when the Council of State says it's locally anchored. But it is also the Ministry of Transport and this Chamber which confirms and supports the proposals and measures. The parties that are most active are the parties that say no to car traffic into the cities, and that want zero growth. The zero growth target in 2012 is good to mention – but in 2012 we did not have the electric car park that we have today. No one saw that at the time. Zero growth, of course, was about pollution, the environment, local emissions and a little area. Now we see that the parties that were for the zero growth target in 2012 use the same argument for the electric cars today. Yes, it is a fact: the Progress Party is against the drivers paying for bicycles and bicycles in collective projects. I believe it is high time that this room took the discussion seriously in the future. We've seen all the uprisings in recent years against these urban packages, especially in the big cities. And there is no doubt that costs are increasing significantly for those who are going to use that web, also in Ålesund. We believe that there is a need to look at other grant schemes, simply because it is actually a public task to expand infrastructure and provide it. And there's no misunderstanding: the party of progress is that you can ride and walk, the ones who can; the party of progress is to be able to use public transport, the ones who can – but we think it's wrong that it's the drivers who have to pay for the big thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e358	It might have been tempting to say that what we see out of the toll debate, which is tolling, is actually modern highway robbery. A more modern way of looking at it is that the Norwegian State has imposed charges on cars and car use that will cover roads and costs that are to be used by the drivers. But what has happened afterwards is that these city packages and toll packages have only been a dairy to get funds to cover everything other than what the car registry is going to use and be responsible for. This is the main problem around it, and then it's said by the representative from SV here that we had so much toll when we were in government. Yes, we didn't have multiple ownership, but it's quite obvious that we built 280 km of quadruple highway, we built quantities by road – far, far more than what today's government does – and we built more roads than the Storting and the government took into account car and car-related taxes. Today, the opposite is true. Today, one takes 53 billion. NOK in car and car-related charges, 15 billion. kr in tolls, and then a building road for 19 billion. kr. Then we hear that the Minister of Transport and the leader of the Transport Committee are jumping around and saying that we should cut down the road construction because it was such an expensive agricultural decision, and the war in Ukraine is so expensive – while the state is running over with money. The budget for oil and gas is 277 billion. kr, but it is expected to be well within 1000 billion. kr that enters the treasury, so there is no lack of money. Then people get the policy they're voting for, the policy they're ordering in a way. In More and Romesdal, the Progress Party has been the largest party, and it is also now. When we were in government, the Progress Party – because people voted for the Progress Party in More and Romesdal – managed to make a difference. We're removing all the tolls in More and Romesdal, to 1.3 billion. kr, because we were a party that people voted for, and we returned to the inhabitants. We are still the deciduous largest party in More and Romesdal, with over 22 pst. Unfortunately, there is now a red-green plural in Stortinget, which means that we don't have the same effect. And we're now going to see the result. We don't have many months out of the civil plural until the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party – with the support of the Right – get more toll. We managed to keep right a little bit in the collar and avoid tolls, now we see that the tolls are flying on. And it is in many ways contrary to the will of the people, it is completely revealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e367	It is interesting to follow the debate and the history of what has happened. When the representative Sve says that what's happening now is highway robbery, I just have to say that the Progress Party represented a large part of it, they were at the highway robbery itself in its time. During their period, there was not so much European roadway — or at least in More and Romesdal. In fact, they paid some tolls, but no road was built there. What's nice about this case is that now we're going to spend a lot of money on traffic safety, on collective measures and on bicycle paths. Among the major projects is a new collective node at Ålesund Hospital. Now we move the entrance party from the bottom to the top, it will be revolutionary for the hospital, for those who are going to use it and for the accessibility: new bridge over the Brosundet and not least the environment street and actions around the campus. When I was in Ålesund with the Council of State, the spokesperson and several representatives from the City Council of Ålesund proudly showed what was going to happen around the South Side, the project that will fall well into place, and which is a cooperation between the county council and the municipality. It is unlikely to be important for development when it comes to continuing training and not least urban development. So there's a lot here, as I said in my post before, that will lead to Ålesund now getting an unlikely lift. There's a growing city, this needs Ålesund. We get to stand on, it's a broad, solid and good plural to listen to the people and want them. Now we have to get the project up and down.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e393	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e400	In the presentation by representatives Sve, Stordalen, Listhaug, Hoksrud, Heimdal, Njåstad, Hagen and Johnsen, the theme is to prioritise rv. 15 The strynefjellet through the initiation of plan work and the involvement of Møre and Romsdal County, associated with the part of the project dealing with arms of Geiranger. In the management of this proposal, a single committee pointed out that rv. 15 is a very important route between west and east. For many individuals, parts of the business community and travel industries in the North-West, this is the road they usually take. Furthermore, the distance from Skåre to Breidal Road is very poor by standard, and in addition, he is racially dangerous – both racially and for periods of time he is left in danger of race. The existing tunnels on the route are narrow, and often traffic-hazard situations arise. On this background, both municipalities, people and business have fought for a new tunnel on this route, and in 2018 the government presented a concept choice for a long tunnel from Skåre to Breidal, with arm to Geiranger. The aim is that, at the same time as a new and safe road across Strynefellet, Geiranger can achieve a race-proof all-year road if the municipality of More and Romesdal want to give priority to this. It will also improve a road that sometimes has a lot of traffic, especially in the summer, and the Committee also points out that Geiranger is a travel goal to count on in international contexts. The Committee further points out that, during the management of the National Transport Plan in Stortinget, there was a broad political plurality behind prioritisation. 15 in the first six-year period, and that the State Vegvesen has committed itself to starting planning the project in its implementation plan. In this context, the majority believe that Strynefeltelt is well represented in the follow-up to the transport plan, and the setting is based on this that the proposal is not accepted. So I'm assuming that the minority presents their views on the matter. Let me just briefly add that for the Center Party it is also important to promise that this is an important project. It's about securing the travellers a safe and racist road across the mountains, and it's not least about reducing the inconveniences business experiences with today's road, which has bad standards. This route was not part of the projects that the Solberg Government had included in its original proposal for a national transport plan. Therefore, it was so important for the Center Party, through the management of the transport plan, to ensure multiple numbers for this project to come along. It was also important, as the Council of State confirmed earlier this year, that the projects launched by the Stortinget with wide multiplicity through its management are in line with the original proposals when the transport plan is to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e413	We were on a committee tour in the West, and then we got a good insight into the condition of Rv. 15 over the Stryne Mountain and not least the importance of an arm to Geiranger for this region. Tunnels are overripe for replacement and create major problems for business and travellers. The Progress Party chose not to negotiate with the Solberg Government on the national transport plan at the time of its examination, and it was annexed to the Protocol instead of a majority decision. The previous national transport plan, from 2017, was presented by a Progress Party State Council, so there would be many opportunities for the Progress Party to accelerate this important project. It had become a strange situation if Stortinget was going to deal with one and the same transport project, which the Progress Party here and in several other cases adds up to. The national transport plan intends to be a predictable plan for the transport modes and our citizens, and must be followed up by the annual budgets we adopt at Stortinget. Since the NTP has now only been annexed to the Protocol, it is absolutely necessary to go through the entire portfolio, for which the Committee has asked the Council of State. There is a broad majority to start this work in the first six-year period. As the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur of the matter said, the state Road Administration has provided funds for the planning of this road system in 2024. We therefore do not support the proposal of the Progress Party, although we are as impatient as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e424	Rv. 15 The stryne mountain is an important east-west link on large parts of Møre and Romsdal and Sogn and Fjordane. It is important for people living along the line, and of course important for business and travel. There is already too much road safety on the line, and the tunnels, as already described in the debate, are narrow and of poor standard. This is a razed road that sorely needs repair, and the stryne mountain tunnels are also overripe for replacement. In the NTP process, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party added 500 million. kr extra to rv. 15 The strenuous mountain in the first period. In addition, both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party have this project within their resources. A large majority thus mentioned the project in their comments and agreed to add additional funds to ensure that the project was started in the first six-year period. The state road authorities have included planning resources in the 2024 implementation plan, but we in the Right are impatient and therefore support the proposals that planning should start even faster. Travel life is a great industry that employs many in the West, not least in Geiranger. I've had the pleasure of working two summer seasons in beautiful Geiranges, and even though it's starting to be a few years ago, there haven't been the big changes on the access roads there. The road from Strynefjellet to Geiranger is poor and is closed every year in the autumn and does not open again until the summer. There are thousands of tourists who come by car and bus, even though you might think that most come by cruise. The right is therefore in favour of the proposals to: 15 The stryne mountain should be ensured to start in the first period, and also to plan an arm for Geiranger as a whole year-round route in cooperation with the county municipality. Finally, a small explanation of vote: Right-wing support today for the proposals concerning the draft representative, i.e. Rv. 15 Wrestlers. The other five proposals in the vote, which deal with other road projects, and where we also support more of them, we will come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e437	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e442	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e447	The representative Charlotte Spurkeland has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e452	When you look at rv. 15 The strenuous mountain, it is a road that really engages the people and the business of the whole region. It is in many ways an industrial belt and a commercial belt in the West that account for a very large proportion of the economic development and not least of the country’s ignition. Last year there was an action for Rv. 15 The strenuous mountain, where there were kilometres of running columns, with trucks, conventional cars, buses — a popular commitment from the construction industry, the transport industry, the inhabitants and the business community to put pressure on Rv. 15 would be on the agenda and would be included in the national transport plan. The vast majority of the parties in this room did so, in comment to the Innst. 653 S for 2020-2021, on NTP. It was just enough attached to the protocol, but I thought that one was behind what one actually did in that note, where one said one should start building rv. 15 The mound during the first six years of the planning period. It is in one way the order for the State Road Service, but unfortunately we see that in many ways the State Road Service does as they please, and they have suddenly said that they will build it between 2028 and 2033, and they will start planning in 2024. Those who have followed, and those who have worked on transportation, know that if one starts the planning of Rv. 15 The strenght mountain in 2024, that means that it will not be able to be started during the first six years of the national transport plan. That's what the leader of the transport committee knows. The Minister of Transport knows that. Everyone knows that's the way it is. One will not be able to start by building rv. 15 during the first part of NTP. What is the national transport plan? Yes, it's the first six years. After that, it's just called. It has no practical meaning. It does not appear in the State Road Service Action Plan, and in other words it cannot be started. In other words, the Center Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have said that they don't want Rv. 15 The strenuous mountain into the first part of the national transport plan, and then one will not start. I'm quite surprised, I'm extremely disappointed that this is the way, because this is one of the most important ways of doing business for the whole of the West. Last summer's markings with kilometres of columns showed that he is incredibly important for business, the inhabitants, the people most and what it might be. So it's sad that it was like that. I take up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e469	The representative Frank Edvard Sve has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e474	Today, many people live in unsafe places in Norway who have to transport their children to kindergarten and school and commute along rosy areas. Racism can save lives, create security for people and save society, people and business for costs and closed roads. I have previously stated that the government must have a comprehensive plan for the tailor-made and racial protection of all of our dangerous roads, and not treat one and one racially dangerous road, as the Progress Party calls for now. There's a completely insane aftermath in this area, and there's a hurry to set up an obligating plan to secure our most dangerous roads in this country. We have to start the job of securing our district roads now. Jenny Følling in the National Racial Protection Group is well the one who says it as clearly as it can be said: the need is enormous. When Stortinget examined the representative proposal from the Right to lift speed and race protection now in April, SV was disappointed that none of the other parties would set a deadline for when we were to have the money ready to actually get race protection in place for our most dangerous roads. The fact that no one would be on such a deadline made me wonder: is it that the majority in this Chamber, when it comes to prioritizing money, would rather build environmentally hostile motorways than put in place vital racial protection? I had hoped that we could get some clear signals today, but I might be optimistic. It'll cost about 70 billion. I'm going to make sure that our most dangerous roads are safe. There is a lot of money, but far from as much as we spend on environmentally hostile motorway projects, and here the proposers for today's case have been in the driver's seat. The rate of funding in racial and tailoring protection is currently far too low, and it is in no way keeping up with the challenges created by climate change and extreme weather. If we don't start with a significant escalation as soon as possible, business, export and population will be hit hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e488	In the previous case, about the urban package in Ålesund, the representative Sve and the Progress Party were relatively incoherent with signed and left. We're not in this case. We're in line. Getting a new, long tunnel on Strynefjellet to replace today's out-of-date, dangerous and also climate-friendly road system with old, short tunnels on the route is a priority issue – not only regional but also national. I would like to commend the Progress Party and Frank Sve for taking the initiative to get this case up as a matter of its own and a debate in Stortinget today. The representative Sve and I were also in the same, big mass mobilization for a new stryne mountain tunnel in the election campaign last year. The only difference was that the representative Sve ran a diesel car and I ran an electric car. Besides that, we were side by side. The mobilization and all the involvement that we have otherwise show how important the stryne mountain is. This is a life nerve between east and west, in the North West. It is about racial protection – yes – but it is also about ensuring the potential for value creation and export for business in one of the most important industrial regions we have in Norway, in the North West. It's a road project, but it's also a project that connects sea and track, it connects the sea corridor along the coast of the West and the railway in the Gudbrand valley, at rv. 15 Måløy-Otta. Here's the Strynefjellet bottleneck today. The long periods of closure that we have, the traffic hazard and the uninhabitedness that are on the route today, are not going to live with. Therefore, this project needs to be up and down. There is a broad majority on Stortinget that just said it in the management of our national transport plan, which requires and says that this project should start in the first six-year period. Then planning has to start quickly. I'm worried that the State Road Service seems to have more or less free play space to plan exactly what they want, whether it's a project that Stortinget has or has not prioritised. Here I think it's a task for this hall and for the Council of State to give clear notice to the State Road Administration that the planning of a new tunnel on Strynefjellet must start as soon as possible. The Left will support the submissions made by the Committee, from the Right and the Advance Party, that this plan work must start by 2022-2023. We will also support the submission of an arm to Geiranger that is planned for the project all year round. The left gives its full support to proposal No. 1 and 2 in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e501	Rv. 15 The strenuous mountain connects the West and the East. As many people have already experienced, it is a very important transport year, especially for businesses that use the road both day and night. The route has a number of tunnels in which the State Road Service has spent time and resources repairing and maintaining a satisfactory level of safety. Prior to the work currently being done in the Strynefjell tunnels, a thorough evaluation of the timing of this work was carried out, which necessarily requires the closure of the tunnels at times. In an area where there has been so much to say for the adventurousness as for the strynfjellet, it goes without saying that the planning of this must be very good. In the interests of entrepreneurs, HMS and the Working Environment Act, Vegvessenet has tried to reduce the amount of work done at night. This time of the day there is also a lot of heavy traffic with important loads on the road. With regard to the proposal to prioritize Strynefjellsweg with arm to Geiranger now, national transport plans 2022-2033 only identify projects that will be launched during the first six years of the planning period. So that's the starting point. However, a pot of funds has not been allocated for the last six years of the period. Based on the challenges and ambitions of the transport corridor presented in the NTP, the State Road Administration will develop strategies and plans for new investments that will address the challenges as best as possible. On 8 February, the Road Administration presented its implementation plan. The plan includes a planning programme showing which projects are to be planned under the Planning and Building Act. Rv. 15 The stryne mountain is referred to here with expected plan activity in 2024. There are probably several people who have already discussed it in the debate. Without prejudice to the fact that flat-run projects after 2022 can both be accelerated and delayed, and that new projects can come into or fall from, rv. 15 over Strynefjellet also referred to as a new current project starting in NTP’s last six-year period. When one comes to the level stage, it is concept B1, with tunnel from Skåre to Breidalen and arm to Geiranger, which will be laid down, cf. existing KVU and KS1 for rv. 15 Wrestlers.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e519	There is reason to ask some questions about how transport planning is currently taking place. So here's a project that an entire committee is behind, and that everyone's been behind in the NTP, and now the Minister of Transport is saying that it might be the start of planning in 2024. At the same time, the Minister of Transport went out before the weekend and exposed three major road projects, including: Oslofjord Tunnel, E6 through Sørfold and Röldal Tunnel. The top-up of the NRK now is that the top-priority project from Vegvesenet is new running in the Oslofjord tunnel. So the Council's friends go out in the committee and say we're going to build the county road and scale down the highway speed to 80 km/h. When will the Stortinge will be presented with an overall review, where we can also take part in this debate, which is obviously taking place internally in the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e526	As I have signed the black Stortinget, we aim to go through the entire portfolio, because then we also look at the projects that had majority comments on them in the grand process. Of course, we'll come back to Stortinget with that in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e531	That was a very scarce answer to a difficult question. I understand that it is difficult to answer in detail something that is so touching internally between the government parties. Among other things, the representative Iversen in the committee says that no, it's not yellow mid-strip on all roads in Finnmark, so in the East they get to 80 km/h, it's as fast as driving in 110. I drive between Oslo and Drammen every day. It's not going very fast. It's not because it's 80 km/h, it's because it's queue, it's too small capacity. Is it really the case that the new government intends to put all the motorway projects on ice because it is unable to prioritise? And when it's all over the class struggle today that it's because of the agricultural settlement we're about to postpone road projects that are going to have a life span of at least 50 years – what kind of short-term thinking is the government now up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e538	I cannot answer for a look-up in the class struggle, but I see at least no connection to the farm settlement. What we're doing now is we're going through priorities in the light of world change, the world looks different than when NTP was presented last summer. We've had war in Ukraine. We've got the end of a pandemic. We need to give priority to defence, social security and preparedness and the reception of refugees, and it will affect the budgets of all sectors, including those not directly affected by it, and it will also affect the transport budget. With regard to the concrete projects that were mentioned, we have held them back to see the whole before we get to Stortinget with them, but the Oslofjord Tunnel is as well known a very important project and a high priority project.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e547	I can inform the Council of State that the last case I was the case rapporteur for the last time I was in the Transport Committee, from 2005 to 2009, was a new one in the Oslofjord Tunnel, which was then adopted by Stortinget, with cheer. Now it's 13 years, and so far it looks dark. It's dark down in the tunnel, but it looks even darker now, when you see how the Council of State one day cancels the project and the Vegvesen next day promises it as the top project. My point with this is to stress that the Storting has adopted a national transport plan. In fact, it was not a majority who stood behind all parts of all the projects, but it was a broad majority for Strynefjellsvegen, for the Oslofjord tunnel and other things. Then the question is, When will the Stortinge be invited to participate in this big consultation that is now taking place internally in the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e554	I have already answered that question. It will happen in an appropriate way. For example, it will. could be in a budgetary context. But I want to replicate to the representative that over the 13 years, there has been a right-wing government in 8 of them. You have not got that project in place then, so in that case there are several people who have to share the responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e559	There are relatively black coal in the strynefjell tunnels, which are some of Norway's poorest tunnels, and one of the worst mountain crossings, which are as important as they are. My question to the Minister is simply: who is it that governs this country? Is it the State Road Service, or is it the Stortinget? When an ungainly store gives a clear message that rv. 15 The stryne mountain shall be built and shall be set in motion in the first part of the NTP, the State Roadway Authority will reply to questions from member of the Committee of Greece for a period of time to set it in motion in 2028-2032. The question is straightforward and entirely in line with what the representative of Greece before me is talking about: When will the Stortinge decide – is it the Stortinge that determines, or is it the state road authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e566	Yeah, I'd say it's worrying if the depositor's in doubt about the Stortinge's decision. Of course, it's the Stortinge that decides, and that starts projects when the projects are mature. I also believe that the hall is well-known – and that has been said by the representatives – that the national transport plan is a major message. It provides a basis for planning. The state road service has a mission where they have so-called portfolio management as one of their tools. In other words, they are trying to promote the proposals for projects that are most mature in the ministry and that later end up in the Stortinget. What emerged during the examination of the national transport plan — which has also been discussed by several — which was not necessarily adopted as a notification — was that it had majority comments but had no overall funding plan. That's our common challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e572	Unfortunately, I have to continue where representatives Helleland and Sve left, in order to try to get a little bit wise on how this government actually controls the big use of money on a transport project, and on a road project in particular. So it's like a close gathering, a joint committee in this case today, pointed out that one has asked for Strynberg to be prioritised in the first part of the planning period, i.e. in the first six-year period. I assume that there is a signal from the government that the project is now being prioritised for planning. But then we see, and today we can read on the NRK, that now the Vegvesen presents its top lists – top 4, top 20, it's the pure pop-lists that are presented – where they say they're prioritizing according to what they think is right and based on plan status. Here we're trying to say something about what's going to be planned. The strenuous mountain is not planned, and the Road Service prioritizes from plan status. Has the Minister for Transport informed the Vegvesen to give priority to planning of RVs. 15 The Wrestling Mountains?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e579	As I replied in a previous post here, we have asked the State Road Service to look at the portfolio in the light of the projects that were given priority in the Stortinget, i.e. the five-six projects that there were majority comments behind. And then I don't think it's time to take that people's information here and now, but it's like, over many years, you've had challenges in getting transportation projects to relate to the financial framework that the Storting has set. Therefore, the portfolio management tool was invented by the previous government, and it was a good tool. It's about the State Road Service, and to the extent that Bane NOR, will keep the projects in a phase where you're constantly trying to reduce costs and increase benefits. That is what the State Road Service has now presented in its top 20 project list. It's the Road Service's response to our challenge to set up a portfolio. So it's going to be like we're going to give priority, that is. by means of government and coagulation at the time of maturity.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e586	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e593	I do not know the need to go through the need for the Strynefjell tunnel – it has been highlighted earlier in the debate. I just want to briefly mention that rv. 15 The strenuous mountain has come in as part of the NTP, just after the first one was made, and there's a pile that's behind the Rv.15 stryne mountain and that it's in the NTP. It has also been suggested that start-up should take place in the first period. Then it's called here from two representatives that they were in a column in Stryn this summer. So was I, and then I've been on one more thing. I was simply attending a start-up meeting in Stryn in winter under the direction of the State Road Administration. Then it was found that if the State Road Service does not start planning until 2024, one will not start building the tunnel in the first period, as the whole Stortinget has suggested. In fact, in the municipalities up there now talk about trying to speed up planning, so that one can get started in 2023. And when one does not intervene with the State Road Administration and asks them to start planning in 2023, a series of projects will not start up in the first period of the NTP, as everyone in this room wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e600	Rv. 15 The strenuous mountain is an incredibly important road for business and for travellers. The center party looks at this as a very important project and has therefore been part of the broad multiple here when it comes to being some of that we have to do. It's about securing travellers a safe and racist road across the mountains, and it's not least about reducing the inconvenience that business has. They are now experiencing very poor road standards, and in several meetings with the commercial and truck transporters we have got to the right in everyday life, what it is like to stand and wait to get over because of race and racial problems. There must be a long tunnel, there is no doubt, and we also see that this with an arm to Geiranger is important. Geiranger is, as we have said here in the hall, an important tourist destination for the nation. There are an unlikely number of travelers also on the sea road, and here we have the possibility to get a good and safe race path, all year round, to Geiranger. Both the county of More and Romesdal and the former Sogn and Fjordane, Westland, are very concerned that we should put this in place. An east-west connection will mean much. The industry in the whole of the South Sunnmare and in the North West is very busy with this road, and I can understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e607	We in the Center Party are going to be creative, we're going to stand on, we're going to work to realize this project as soon as we can. It's fun to register a wide selection in this room that this is an incredibly important project for the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e610	First, I just want to repeat what the representative Lien said: it's a joyful, strong cross-political commitment to the Stryne Mountain Road, and it's fun to experience – it's fun to experience when it's a lot of things, but at least when there's a road you know well. So it's an important signal for the many people who work to get a new path across the Stryne Mountain, and who have acted for it, as it's shown before. Then I have to say that I feel that the post of the representative Sve spreads undue uncertainty about the project. Firstly, it is shown that the State Road Service has not only announced the start of planning, but on our committee tour also to Nordfjord, the State Road Service signaled that they were very committed to this project and looked at it already. So it's -- completely open-minded -- at least not my impression that this is some low-priority project from the State Road Service's side, on the contrary. And if the reasoning of the representative, Sve, were to hold water, then all sections of the road to which the Progress Party does not have access on the basis of individual proposals in this room would be in danger, but this is not, of course, the case. If that were the case, the representative Sve would also have a challenge when it concerns all the projects he has not mentioned, and has not raised for this hall. I think it's important to bring it with me. Governments have shown that the projects included in the original national and transport plan, as well as the projects with a broad majority in Stortinget, are further included in the priorities and in the follow-up to the national transport plan. So finally, there are some strange comments from several of the opposition parties here related to the portfolio management of the State Road Service. Perhaps even more so than today's government party, the previous government party pointed out the importance of the professionals' freedom and flexibility in planning and resource use, and one has gone so far that, for example, New Roads has a wide freedom within this field. The statements that fall here in this room give the impression that it's the opposite of what's going on, that here the government gives almost freeway to the etats, and that the government doesn't have the necessary political direction in these processes. So it's a strange contrast, I have to say, when you right the posts in the hall from the opposition here today versus what they themselves said at the time they ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e619	The leader of the transport committee says that the state road authority has marked and sent a signal regarding rv. 15 Wrestlers. What kind of signal? Is that a smoke signal? What kind of signal is that the state road authority has given regarding rv? 15 The Wrestling Mountains? The signal is to push it out of the national transport plan. A total of a bunch of people have said this is going on for the first six years. The smoke signal sent by the State Road Administration is that they will not build until 2028–2032. The evidence of that, the signal from the State Road Service, is in the VG today, where VG shows the State Road Service its signal of what they want to build. 20 road projects have been submitted. Either I have a bad vision, maybe I have, because I can't find rv. 15 in the signals. Then there must be a smoke signal sent by the State Road Service, because it is not on the list of what they want to build – to 150 billion. NOK 200 billion. kr, which is probably 300 billion. kr because of the price growth of steel and concrete and explosives and what it might be. It's very serious, simply because the state's roads don't want to build rv. 15 Wrestlers. When the leader of the Transport Committee discusses what is actually happening to the State Road Service, I expect the leader of the Transport Committee to come up to this pulpit and tell me where I can find these signals from the State Road Service. Where is the list from the State Road Service that they want to build the Stryn Mountain in the next few years? It doesn't say. What's special is that the Storting has given the clear message to the State Road Administration that the Strynefeltelt is so important. Business has given the same signals. The builders have given the same signals. And then the state authorities are doing their best to jump over the message Stortinget has given. When will the government listen to what the inhabitants and the business community have said about the Stryne Mountain, and why is it not on these signals, these lists that the State Road Service has shown in the VG now? This makes me unable to understand that the Road Service is at all interested in building the Strynefjellet. They want to build a completely different way, and then I notice that with the list that's there, and the costs that are, there are at least two and three periods before that list comes through. There will be little road construction here, when they will also cut close to 19 billion. kr for which they will build a day, for sure down to 10 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e630	It was the committee chairman who made me take the floor, because he wondered if I looked all the way away from what we had meant before, about portfolio management. No, not at all, but now there's a list on VG and NRK of potable projects and how they're prioritised. As far as Strynefjellsvegen is concerned, some people would say that it should be ready for pot, but it is not. It has to be planned. This is where Stortinget sent an overall signal that it should start in the first planning period, and get to do so, one must plan. It's not so strange that it's not on the list, because the list only has projects that have been designed. What is a little more surprising is that the three projects that were brought forward in the NRK before the weekend, which could be postponed, are the three top projects that the government thought could be postponed. These are the top three projects that Vegvesen is now giving priority to. If one is really going to be the devil's lawyer here and find problems: if the top three projects are going to be postponed, what about the next seventeen? Then there won't be much road construction here in the country for the next six years. That's what I'm asking: when does the government intend to present an overall plan? I know that they will come back with a response to the SV's demands in the state budget, and that is the requirement that is built up under the Central Party and also some in the Workers' Party, that hereafter only race protection and county roads should be given priority. So we have to have a coherent road network in this country, where you have some highways, east-west, north-south, which have a larger road width and a higher standard. That's where I'm critical of the wing. I have not yet heard the Council of State take it in its mouth that it is now only racial protection and narrow roads that are to be prioritised, but he is being pressured by his own all the time. From my point of view, the Council of State fully supports the fact that we are going to follow the National Transport Plan, that we are going to bet on some major roads between north and south and east and west. But such is the central part and now also parts of the Workers' Party express themselves in, among other things. The class struggle, I begin to lose faith that this government has intended to give priority to transportation at all. The city packages are also unable to deliver on. Then the question is, what's left?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e641	The more this debate emerged, the stronger I get the feeling that we're now in a classic Catch-22 situation when it comes to how we're going to get operations on the Stryne Mountain. It is correct, as several speakers have said, that what we can now read about at VG and NRK about the priorities of the state road system is the projects that are ready-to-cook, fully planned. It is said that these projects have been evaluated according to plan status. So we have a proposal here today that isn't about starting construction of the stryne mountain tunnels, but it's about starting stryne mountain planning to get these projects planned, in order to be in position to do what the Storting has said, that one should give priority to starting in the first six years. So that proposal seems to be voted down by the government party and the supporting party SV here today. I don't think SV is going to fix this in the hall. When we heard their posts in this case, when they were talking about the Stryne Mountain in a debate about absolutely everything else and not about Stryne Mountain, there is little reason to believe that SV will give priority to this project in their negotiations with the government parties. This is alarming, and I think it is imperative that there be such a double signal from the government party. One will not be able to accelerate the necessary planning work to get this project in position in the next round, while one in the remarks in this case indicates that the Stortinget has said that a priority should be given to starting in the first six-year period, and one collective committee even says that one acknowledges that today's tunnels have such a poor standard that almost one cannot describe them as fully-valued car tunnels. It says one on one side. On the other hand, one will not start the level work that is actually needed to get to the Road Service's list of potable projects in the next situation. At least my prediction is that this isn't the last time we're discussing the strenuous mountain tunnels in this room. Here, the pressure must continue from all over the West, from the Inland, from the business world and from the opposition on the Stortinget, which stands firm on what the Stortinget has actually said.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e654	First of all, we want to give priority to the stryne mountains. It has been well prepared how it should be done and when planning should start. But what made me take the word now is the feeling that there's little harmony between what's happening outside of the Storting and what's being said from the pulpit. One can ask himself whether the Right Party and the Advance Party want to demand a comprehensive and predictable plan from Nye Vejer. We have a war that gives us great uncertainty, we have a lack of entrepreneurs, and we have huge costs that make New Roads say they want to take a foot in the ground. Four solid road projects have been halted due to increased costs. In addition, we have E6 through Tronde Teams, where there could be really bad, where there's been a race, and where you need a proper security review. It's New Veier going on. Then I want to give an example of great uncertainty. The previous government promised that the Sotra connection would start in 2015. That would cost $5. kr. Now it's $20. kr. This must also be financed. It's our budgets that show how we prioritise transportation. Every year for the last eight years, the budget of the Workers' Party has had a greater focus on transport, including on county roads and not least on racial protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e666	Before Erna Solberg became prime minister, she went high on the track and promised to convert the Norwegian economy. It's really a stranger, but it means that we're going to have more bones in our country, not just the oil and gas industry, in an industrial way. That's exactly what Erna Solberg said. The problem with the Right-Registration was that the results were still going wrong, and that the deficit outside oil and gas exports grew larger and larger. In fact, by 2020, the deficit was 312,000 million. kr. It is such a large number that it is difficult to deal with, but to put it into a context that makes it possible to intervene, my neighbour municipality, Alvdal, has a municipal budget of just over 300 million. kr. In other words, in trade with the rest of the world, Norway experienced a deficit equivalent to a thousand times the municipality's economy in 2020. It's also important in this case, given why we're dealing with transport policy, and what's the reason why we're going to make the decisions we're making. Well, that's getting a better functioning society. It's not because it's a goal in itself to build four-field highways, lay down nature or food or it's fun to drive fast. I may think it's okay, but it doesn't give much value to society. Through the Hurdal Platform, this Workers' Party-Center Party government has been given a much more comprehensive policy on how to build up the mainland industry in Norway. We already see results of this. Just a few days ago, the good news came that there will be road investment related to the Battery Road in Agder. When the representative of Greece asks what the new majority is doing, the answer is that we are building a forward-looking society where both people and goods can get safely across Norway. Well, that's got to be a priority. As I said before, the previous government did a good job setting up the expert committee on sustainable mobility. But it's completely forgotten! It seems that you have almost not taken over a word of what appeared in the important report. Here, Greece only stands on the more fragile picture that did not receive a majority in treatment, and is not willing to take on industrial and forward-looking priorities, which we obviously have to do for several reasons, not only for the economy, but also to give priority to the workers where they do the most benefit. It is quite obvious that it was time for new costs in transport policy – costs that can get things done and not just talk about change, but that makes the results go up instead of down, because the results are what counts.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e679	The representative Frank Edvard Sve has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e684	I only have one short comment when it comes to what was said here by some, that the list that was in the VG was a project that was in a way designed, etc. That's not correct. The first four projects that stand there are ready for pot. For the rest, it's planning of different kinds. In my home country, the project Møreaksen, which has been planned far from here. There is not a KS2 entry – hardly so – and a comma is not planned either north or south of the fjord. So here, there's a lot of inequality in terms of the level of planning in the different projects. The stryne mountain is definitely in such a situation, it's been working a lot for, and there's tunnels. It's like one tunnel goes into the mountain on one side and out on the other, and there's not so much design that's going to happen with the troll in the middle of the mountain, so I think it's a pretty fast case to project -- much faster than most of the other projects on that list.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e689	I think some representatives are trying to make this unnecessarily difficult and unclear. It is that this hall, the previous government and the current government have asked the State Road Administration to work on a portfolio management model. That is, there will sometimes be the kind of lists in which the Storting doesn't necessarily fully know. Of course, it is our responsibility as a government – and eventually for the Stortinget – to prioritise projects when they come to Stortinget. I also want to repeat that although it is said that we have cancelled projects, of course that is not the case. What we've done is we've held back. We want to see a whole, the world situation looks different, and it's also useful to see the portfolio priority that the State Road Service presented today, before we move on. The previous government took the Stryne Mountain out of the National Transport Plan, and then the Storting through the treatment by a relatively broad majority has asked us to take the Stryne Mountain in. I have said that we should assess it as part of the portfolio. Our common challenge is that there was no joint financing of that project in that process. And it's not right, as was said, that this is related to smoke signals. No, the State Road Service is running, i.e. that, through their February submissions, they have said that they want to plan this project, so that it can become clear for the next stage of the NTP. So I think we need to have a certain degree of audacity in the debate. There may be impatience related to the project, but I feel that there is a broad desire to get this done, and the Swedish Road Administration also wants to work on that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e700	Yes, there is a broad consensus that we should lift the strynefjell road, and there is also a broad consensus that we should bet on transportation, but there is a little more uncertainty about what the government parties really want. While some parts of the government parties are talking exclusively about county roads and racial protection, the faction leader Nils Kristen Sandtrøen came up and took his experience from the nutrition committee and began talking about industrial roads. And yes, we're for the Battery Way, we're for important nutrition projects, but what's the whole point of the portfolio management and the bet that the Vegvesen now puts up, is that there are projects that are highly priority because there are important nutrients. It is important for industry to get the goods out, it is important for aquaculture to get the fish out, and that is what underlies many of the priorities that are being made. It is also important with the Strynefjell road, and I got it very well illustrated when we were in Loen, where we were told about the challenges of the transport company Tenden had about the fishing industry that was supposed to have the fish out, etc. So the only thing we're asking for from the opposition is that there's some consistency in what comes from the government parties. People get so confused, there's so many games, and most people assume that things have to be postponed, and it has to be scaled down. That's not a good signal. Then the Sand Tread tries to make it that there was no conversion under Erna Solberg. Well, it was a doubling of the travel budgets. In fact, we were giving priority to other things than roads: we were giving priority to urban growth agreements. When Ola Elvestuen, who is now sitting in the hall, was a travel agency in Oslo, there were 0 SEK in rewards from the red-green government, probably because it was Right, Left and others who ruled Oslo. Now it's 6.5 billion. kr in reward funds, or what is now called urban growth agreements – it is now in. It was a big shift, it was a bet, and the oil fund has increased and increased below us. So the Sandtrøen is suspended in comparing the municipal budgets of its home municipality with the export deficit, it is now allowed to be. The important thing is that Norway has taken a seven-mile step both in terms of betting on collective and climate issues and building major roads that bind the country together. I have a hope that we will continue the effort that we agreed on in the NTP, and it seems that more people in the government parties seem to be difficult. They'd rather scale down, jigsaw a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e711	It is clear that it was timely to promote this proposal, and when we hear the debate here today, I am really more concerned than I was before the debate started. Because that's absolutely right: while we've been sitting here today, there's been new messages about what Statens Vegvesen thinks, compared to what the Council of State said last Thursday. Today is Tuesday, the week after. At the same time, we have representatives from the government parties who believe something quite different. On Thursday, the state council told the media that now you should go through the list and see what you can find, while the State Road Administration has lifted up the same projects, which are actually canceled. So government representatives say no, now we have to tone down, we have to build less and cheaper, among other things. because of Ukraine and the pandemic. Then I start to wonder, who is it that actually runs the Ministry of Transport? Are there central party and labour party representatives here in Stortinget, or is it the Council of State, following majority decisions and majority voting? It is quite right that there are comments on Strynefellet, which you are very much in agreement with in the NTP treatment, and it seems as if everything should now be downplayed. A little comment in the end, to Sandtrøen, that nothing happened during the Solberg government. A lot happened – it's clear. There were real things happening. There were major reforms in both the track and the road. It was built much more than ever before. But what's about to happen now -- that's absolutely right -- is nothing. It's dramatic, and that's what the Sand Throat has to ask questions about to its own government. Now nothing is going to happen, if I am to understand the media correctly, and based on what the Minister of Transport and the representatives of the government parties have said to the press, at the latest today – compared to what it was last week. It is sad that there is no greater strain, for it is quite right: the stryne mountain is very important. Leirtrø is talking about a lack of contractors. Yes, the costs we see today can be fast, especially on fuel. The transport industry also wears with it, in addition to the poor safety that is along that road. I wish there was an even wider majority who stood behind what you thought before the election, that they meant the same thing today, and gave the industry, the inhabitants and the business the way they needed, and the signal they needed from the Storting, because it's clear that you should get going, it must be early in the first period. The Progress Party does not oppose portfolio management. It sounds like the Council of State thinks so. No – but the Council of State also knows that it must start in the first period. If it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e728	The representative of Greece just underlined my point, because that was the challenge of former Prime Minister Erna Solberg, that she used the word conversion, but was little specific about what it really involves. What that means, as I was in the past, is that the Norwegian economy should not be so dependent on the revenue from oil and gas. What Greece is talking about, however, is how much asphalt it has laid in Norway, but there is no evidence whatsoever whether the Norwegian economy is more or less dependent on export revenues from the oil and gas industry, or whether we get to other industrial growth in Norway, thus increasing production and increased export income. In the transport sector, the OPS project on Sotra is a good example of how to avoid operating a transport policy, if you want to transform and value our own society and develop your own competence. There, the former government has set up a type of scheme that, in the opinion of the Landesförbund, also means that this is a very bad business policy, because we need to ensure that it is possible to get participants in the projects from our own competence environment here at home in Norway by developing, for example, for example. climate-friendly construction technology. This could be an example of a shift where the money is better used for industry and business in Norway. It is also claimed that the new majority is not concrete in its priorities. For example, the first thing we did in this budget, which we decided just before Christmas, was to make sure Suldal gets racial protection. People have marked and fought for it for many years, but nothing has happened. Many people have talked about it, the Workers' Party and the Center Party are doing something about it. The Council of State has also indicated that we are making better projects, including: in the Nordic region — important projects where over-maturity has been achieved in order to start up. So here, there are concrete priorities on ongoing bands. Helleland could rather claim that the Battery Road, as I mentioned, is a little concrete. It's quite concrete, and there are people in Agder, very, very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e739	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e756	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e763	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Processes and a great commitment to train, also for a great commitment to zero emissions on trains, in dealing with this matter. I hope for an equal commitment when we're going to deal with budgets in the future. We need forward-looking politicians to reach the Paris Agreement, and we need forward-looking politicians to reach the zero-emission target in the transport sector. The transport sector accounts for about one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, and Norway needs to do what we can to reduce emissions, including on the railways. I don't think anyone in this room really disagrees with the proposers: hydrogen and ammonia are energy carriers that have great potential to reduce emissions, and that's not good enough when seven of Norway's routes, ten pst. of the total train fleet in Norway, not electrified. It is very exciting what is happening in Europe, where hydrogen-powered train sets are already ordered and thought out in the near future. However, the majority of this case believes that there is too much focus on hydrogen as an alternative energy carrier. I agree that this is an important alternative, but I don't want to pre-empt that hydrogen is necessarily a better solution than, for example, hydrogen. use of battery-powered trains. The majority believe that the principle of technology neutrality should be used in order to find the best solutions to make the whole railway emission-free. A KVU will now be developed for reduced greenhouse gas emissions from the railway. This KVU shall draw up the lines for how best to cut emissions from the railway and shall outline a time-table progress plan to cut the emissions of the remaining routes. It is urgent to cut emissions in order to achieve climate targets. Unfortunately, we still have more diesel sections in Norway, which together are going to emit 400,000 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent by 2030. That's a big number. There is a need to move the remaining train sections to zero-emission technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e781	Will the representative address the proposal as SV together with the Right behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e786	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e791	The representative of Mona Fagerås then addressed the proposal from the Right and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e796	It's good that there are suggestions that make it possible to discuss hydrogen as an energy carrier. After the Storting in the last period dealt with the climate notification, it is good that the Hurdal platform says that we should help build a coherent value chain in hydrogen. This is important in the conversion we're going to do. We also treat an energy message in these days with additions, here in Stortinget. It discusses how much power we have, how we're going to use it, and how much we need. So everything is related to everything, including here. Hydrogen can be a good alternative to our remaining diesel sections when we're going to get them zero-emission, but we want the Railway Directorate to finish the task of evaluating the different options that give the zero-emission rail before we finally conclude. Yes, the need to cut emissions is urgent and the railway must be part of it and have a significant potential for both passenger and freight transport. We have a great job ahead of us with the infrastructure on the railway and not least with what this proposal is about: getting the railway emissions free. From home I would like to mention the electrification of the Tronder and Meråker Railway, which was a pri one from Trøndelag in the three most recent national transport plans. This year the first pole was put on half the distance. The Swedes have felt very "disappointed", but now we are happy to be able to drive electric trains from Trondheim to Stockholm. This is going to be a good offer, but we have to finance it first. So we want the Directorate of Railways to finish the assignment before we figure out what solution we're going to choose for the remaining sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e809	In order to achieve Norway’s climate objectives, emissions have to fall in all sectors — and rail is no exception. As the rapporteur was about to say, it is urgent to cut emissions from the railway, and hydrogen as an energy carrier may become part of the solution. Hydrogen trains are already in commercial operation in Germany, for example, and technology is in place. Green hydrogen will be available in Norway in a very short time. On the right, the government believes that it needs to take a more active role and work to speed this up in Norway. That is why we have promoted this proposal for a representative. It is good that the Directorate-General for Railways has been given the task of creating a so-called KVU, a concept selection study, to assess different options that give emission-free or reduced emissions from the railway. Hydrogen is one of the alternatives to be evaluated, and then we think it is very good that the Right has promoted as many good proposals as can be included in that assessment. The hydrogen on trains can be connected on whole value chains, on export possibilities and hydrogen nodes. What we are asking for in this proposal is to provide an up-to-date knowledge base for hydrogen as an energy source for trains. We are asking for a review of the legislation to be able to care for both hydrogen and ammonia. We're asking for an assessment of which distances hydrogen can be used. We want contracts of differences to be considered, whether it can also be introduced to hydrogen on trains, so that the volume of hydrogen production is actually raised – simply get an assessment of funding models. We believe that a KVU, which is now to be created, can also assess how it can facilitate business to create value chains for hydrogen on trains as part of an export market. We are asking to assess cooperation on hydrogen in the Nordic region, and finally we are asking to strengthen the climate weight when purchasing train materials. I notice that the government parties do not want to support any of our proposals and lean on the government's response that the technology is immature. I just want to say to the debate that when there's a KVU first, and we have input into what should be included in it, I don't quite understand why you can't vote to include this. I kind of don't see it all the way down. I can agree that hydrogen is not sure that it is the only solution to bring down the emissions on the railway. I'm not trying to figure out what a KVU is going to do. But it will be very foolish not to go into it more carefully and consider the proposals that have been taken up in the Storting now, so that all this is included in the assessment that is to be made and that comes on the table. Finally, I take up the suggestions that the Right is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e826	The representative Charlotte Spurkeland has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e831	However, in a time of many crises and challenges, in the longer term in our generation, the climate challenge is the greatest. We need to form a policy to reduce national and international emissions, and then all sectors play a role. The railways in Norway have little – we must say – to collect emissions, but it is still such that by looking at solutions in this area too, we can contribute to new technologies and solutions that transport industries in other countries can take advantage of. It will be good for the environment, but it will also be good business policy, because by developing new green solutions here in the country, we are creating new activity, we are creating green jobs, we are creating a strong trade union environment into the green shift – and that makes sense. Hydrogen is part of the solution and a very good example of an energy bearer that we can build these long value chains around – building activity and building jobs in mainland Norway. It is also particularly exciting to relate to the maritime sector, where today we do not all have answers to how to get to the green transition. There could also be hydrogen as an important part of the answer. Still, there are a lot of technologies that can be a right part of the answer, and I think we're wise not to adopt in this room what technologies we're going to use in the different areas. We're going to point to the problems that need to be solved, and then, as the case-speaker said correctly, we're going to have a technology-neutral approach to that. I remember that I had been delighted to meet in this assembly even in an earlier period, and then one of the suggestions that was up in the public debate was to use hydrogen in car traffic, to build up massively with hydrogen filling stations around the whole country. I believe that today we see that technology shows that it was good we did not target hydrogen towards passenger car traffic. So we're not going to adopt technology, and that's also the explanation of the central party here today – we're referring to the KVU that's going to be created. There's just to evaluate these different things, and then one should make choices based on the knowledge that we get out of such a KVU.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e842	Getting a zero-emission railway is a continuation of what has been a major effort for many years, and by the previous majority. From that government as well as from the majority from 2013 until now, there has been a substantial investment on the railways. The rail service has never been better in Norway and there has been a significant increase in frequency and offer during those years. The main test for the current government and majority is to maintain and strengthen that offer in the years to come, only now this summer and so on, where we need to have a stronger effort to have the rail service that we need to go on. It cannot be that we are left with a worse offer for the corona than what we had before the corona. So this is also about that we're going to cut emissions from the railway. It was mentioned earlier that we have gone into sections – with hybrid trains on the Trunder Railway and electrification of the Meråker Railway – in order to reduce emissions from it. For this proposal, there is a two-part justification for the Left's vote. One is that it is good for the decision of the Committee and the Stortinget to have a reinforced effort to make the transport of trains emission-free. This has been working with the Railway Directorate since back in 2018, and it is important that we are able to get the last sections out of emission in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But the Left is going to vote for several of the suggestions from the Right, because we need a special attention to hydrogen and ammonia, green and blue, to get it more used. Clearly, the use of blue and green hydrogen and ammonia is crucial both here and in Europe to reduce emissions in the years to come. But it's a value chain that's not there per day, and above all, it's a demand driven process. That's why it's important that we look especially at hydrogen also when it comes to reducing the emissions from the railway, to see if it's where it's right to deploy extra resources, just like we did for ferry operations in the Westfjord, where we're betting on hydrogen to develop that technology. That is why the Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, which asks for this special attention in the KVU, we will vote in favour of proposal No. Two, in which one asks to look at which sections will be suitable, proposal No. 4, on business and value chains, proposal No. 5, on legislation and proposal No 6, on enhanced climate weighting in the case of tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e856	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, then made it clear which proposals the Left would support.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e861	Climate change has serious consequences. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows how demanding it will be to limit earth’s temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. The transport sector accounts for about one third of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions and about 60 pst. of the non-quota emissions. Cuts in the transport sector will be absolutely essential for us to achieve our objectives and for us to be able to meet our obligations. Norway’s reinforced climate change targets under the Paris Agreement are to reduce emissions by at least 50 pst, up to 55 pst, by 2030 compared to 1990. Then there's a big problem that we have in front of us. In this work, it is very important that we have a good knowledge base, among other things. to ensure that we do not work at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a more expensive way for society than is necessary. The different technologies have different advantages and disadvantages, and the technology most appropriate in the different sectors should be used. We are assessing the potential for greenhouse gas reductions from the entire sector. We have said in the Hurdals platform that we should facilitate full or partial electrification or the use of other technologies to reduce emissions from remaining diesel sections on the railway. Rail is our most energy efficient mode of transport. The railway stands for only 0.3 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions of the transport sector. When we look at the possibility of reducing those around 50,000 tonnes of rail, we have to assess the cost of reducing these emissions against the rest of the transport sector's emission potential. With regard to the government's policy on hydrogen, I would like to point out that on 8 April the government presented its supplementary communication on energy policy, where hydrogen is one of several topics under discussion. As I said, I believe that we must have a good decision-making basis before making decisions on the choice of technology on the railway, and I sent a supplementary letter of assignment on 4 April this year to the Railway Directorate, where I asked them to carry out the concept selection inquiry to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by rail. The Directorate for Railways is, among other things, asked to consider options to reduce rail emissions, their benefits and disadvantages, the socio-economic costs and assess the operational nature and related investment needs. This draft selection examination shall be completed and transmitted to the Ministry of Transport by September 2023. Once we have this in place, we can make a time-table progress plan for the remaining diesel driven routes towards zero-emission technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e889	Under the government of Solberg and now under the government of Støre, hydrogen is an important investment for Norway, on which the Council of State was involved. The state uses multiple dollars, hundreds of millions, to bet on hydrogen as an energy form. At the same time, the Hurdal platform has established that where it is not possible to electrify the railway, other forms of energy should be considered. When, first of all, the state is so heavy on hydrogen and, secondly, it wants to get the emissions from the railway down, it won't be a smart thing for Norway to say that you put a little pressure on this, that you don't stand on the line of technology neutrality, because you have this huge investment, but that you put a little lead into the KVU that is now ordered by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e896	The representative may be right that hydrogen becomes an important factor in what's going to happen on the railway, but I want to point out what I said in my original post. We have to make sure that we use the community's resources in a targeted way, and that we have a good knowledge base at the bottom before we make the final choices. I think the whole Storting agrees with me when I say it's a wise approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e901	Is there any of the proposals that Stortinget is dealing with today, which the Council of State believes are interesting to look into in the KVU work, even though the Stortinget does not support them?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e906	I believe that several of those elements are interesting, but I still think it makes sense that we are now letting the concept selection investigation go. I'm pretty sure that the concept selection investigation will bring out knowledge of the elements that the Right has included in its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e911	It is urgent to cut emissions in order to achieve the climate targets. Unfortunately, we still have train sections in Norway, which together are going to emit 400,000 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent by 2030. There is a need to move the remaining train sections to zero-emission technology. Will the announced KVU include a plan to have these sections of the train free of emissions? And when can the Storting expect us to have this plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e921	The draft selection examination shall be completed and transmitted to the Ministry of Transport by mid-September 2023. Once we have received the draft selection investigation, the government will be able to make a time-table progress plan for the remaining diesel-powered routes, in order to transfer them to zero-emission technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e926	I get a little worried when I hear the statements of the Council of State, where he places so much emphasis on the fact that there is cost-effectiveness to be taken into account for which technology to choose to have zero emissions. It's good with the goal of zero emissions, but at the same time we need strong will over a long period of time to drive and use hydrogen. Everyone knows we're going to need it in a lot of areas in the transport sector, but we're going to go after it to make use of it. Now it's starting with the use of hydrogen trains in Germany. They're taking responsibility. To a previous post: I'm one of those who's still really happy every time I see a hydrogen car in the streetscape. But we need to drive the use of hydrogen to get the value chains for this. So then my question is, can we be sure that the Council of State makes an independent assessment of whether there are sections in Norway where we are going to use hydrogen trains, or is it just cost-effectiveness that is based on all sections?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e934	If the representative Elvesuen perceived me there that I should only pay attention to costs, it is misunderstood. Of course, zero emissions are the most important thing, and that's what makes sense. Of course, if we can contribute to industrial development through what kind of choices we make, it's also an important factor. But I assume that the representative Elvesuen agrees with me that we're going to do it in a way that doesn't make society incur unnecessary costs in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e939	I agree with that, but at the same time: is there something you need in terms of the development of carbon capture and storage, all that we do in terms of Longships, all that we do just to facilitate a value chain for ammonia and hydrogen in the transport sector, perhaps especially for ships, that's something to pull the demand up, because here we are making huge investments. The size has done it with open eyes, and this is also about making larger investments on the demand side, which is, after all, not in the broad context of advancing this technology, together with other countries such as Germany. So the question remains: can we be sure that there is a separate assessment of whether there are some sections that can also be used for that purpose in Norway and that it is assessed on the basis of the whole value chain to be achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e946	Yes, it's my intention that we do that, but as I said in previous articles, we need a knowledge base first, and that's why we need a KVU. Once we've got this KVU, I'm being able to make qualified decisions, and we're enabling society to have the debate. So I think we're going to have to wait for this debate until we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e951	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e970	When the Workers' Party was in opposition in Stortinget, we proposed to make an annual statement on gender equality and government equality policy. That is why I am very happy to be allowed to come here and explain the equality policy of the new government and the state of Norway. The government will have renewed and reinforced efforts in the field of gender equality, and we have great ambitions for gender equality in Norway. Together with the trade union movement, we have historically done a lot, and Norway has come a long way. But even though Norway is at the top of the statistics on the world's most equal countries and most of the others look at us, I will never and never be a Minister for Gender Equality who – and this government is never a government that is in the glamour of the efforts of others or is satisfied with the statistics and the situation. Gender equality does not come about by itself, and we have major gender equality challenges in Norway today. It's been too quiet for a long time now. We need a renewed and reinforced commitment to gender equality policy. We have to change the structures. Without that, we're not going to move on. Others must have greater freedom and opportunity to live the life they want. Many people have to experience economic freedom and thus independence. We need to improve gender balance at the top of work and business, combat violence, sexual harassment and negative social control, give priority to women's health, and we need to raise gender equality challenges and fight to counter the setback for gender equality internationally. We're going to incorporate the rights of disabled people into Norwegian law, and we're going to ban conversion therapy. Now we're also investigating what a third gender category might look like. We're going to make them like every single day out there where people work and live in the municipalities, who are working to take equality further, to be able to do more, to ensure active equal opportunities work and to promise cooperation with the social partners on gender equality. We will build on the efforts won by the trade union movement, because it is a crucial and important part of the key to achieving greater equality in the future. An overall government is ready to pursue an active policy to strengthen equality in Norway. Economic freedom is one of the most important things if we're going to move on. Being economically independent is about being able to live a free life. Because a person is not financially independent, he is not safe, and then he cannot be free, not free to make independent choices, not free to do so, for example. to be able to depart from a harmful or violent relationship. Economic independence for women is a prerequisite for a more equal society. We don't have an equal work life. Women have even worse pay. They are under-represented in executive positions. It is ladies who work part-time and have more uncomfortable working hours. Women take most of the parental leave. The gender-based labour market is an important cause of inequality in the labour market. Women and men work in different parts of the labour market, in different professions, industries and sectors. That means that we have a large part of our working life that is very women-dominated or very human-dominated. 85 pst. by all workers in Norway, working in either a female or a man-dominated profession. It's a big challenge. Of course, the gender-based labour market is linked to other important gender equality challenges, such as gender pay and working hours. Far more women than men work part-time. 35 pst. women work part-time compared to 15 pst. men. The proportion of part-time workers varies by industry, and in those industries where part-timers are most prevalent, women often represent a larger proportion than men. This means that part-time work contributes to the maintenance of gender differences in working life, and it is a particularly large proportion of the female-dominated occupations without higher education requirements, such as: shopkeepers, health professionals, service professionals, cleaning workers and canteen workers, to mention something. Creating a full-time culture is important from a socio-economic perspective, for it is important to ensure economic freedom and is central to employee involvement, security and predictability. This is why the government's full-time effort is one of the most important things we can do to increase women's economic autonomy and strengthen their position in the labour market. We've already started gripping. We have proposed to highlight full-time as a norm in the Working Environment Act, that employers decide to document the need for part-time work and discuss the issue with trustees. We have proposed to strengthen the right of priority for part-time employees. It will be an effective tool to reduce the amount of unwanted part-time and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is now working to follow up the hearing that just took place. I just want to stress that these are some of the proposals that we have already made, but that is only a small part of the government's work to ensure a full-time standard in working life. We're doing more in many fields. Pension from the first penny has been an important matter for us. From 1 January 2022 these rules entered into force, and in practice this means that part-time employees in the private sector are now entitled to membership of occupational pension schemes irrespective of job breaks. It is important because it can help to ensure that the pension legislation itself does not give reason to employ people in the smallest job fractions. We've put down a Health Personnel Commission. That Commission shall, inter alia,: identify recruitment challenges in parts of the country and their causes. The need for a more balanced gender distribution among employees is part of the Commission’s work, and they shall also explain the reasons for and use of part-time in the various professions and also the extent to which part-time is voluntary or involuntary. They shall identify structural changes that may reduce time-use. They shall look at the issue of full-time and part-time work and propose recent changes that could reduce time use. In addition, the government has chosen to continue the financing of the KS-project Tørn, which will contribute to new forms of work and organisation in the care services, inter alia. related to full-time and task-sharing positions. Women continue to serve on average less than men. In 2021, women on average made only 87.9 pst. of the wages and salaries of men. A recent study from CORE, which deals with gender balance at the top of business, shows that among women and men with children, the average income of women is only 85 pst. of the income of men. Age, level of education and type of education do not appear to be able to explain gender differences in income. I hope that the new rules on wage monitoring will help to reduce the pay gap between women and men. Wage-seeking is an important key to more equality in the workplace because it gives us knowledge of what things look like in the workplace. It provides employers with the basis to assess precisely whether there are pay differentials between women and men in them, so that they can and must take action. It allows employees to compare their wages with the average for their own job group at their own place of work. It makes relationships more transparent, and it can help create more justice, more equal pay. The information shall be provided in the annual report for 2021, which many companies produce in these days, or in another public document, and I hope that Norwegian companies now see this as an opportunity to put gender equality on the agenda and to be corrected in a biased way. In the case of wage formation in Norway, the social partners are responsible for it. Collective wage formation is important. That is why we need a higher degree of organisation to give workers more power. The government will contribute to this, among other things: by doubling the trade-union deduction. We also want enhanced tripartite cooperation, which is closer, more committed and more strategic to meeting the major challenges Norway faces in the years ahead, including in the field of gender equality. International comparisons just suggest that high levels of wage formation coordination, as we have in Norway, often referred to as the front-line model, provide higher employment, lower unemployment and less pay differentials than can be achieved with less coordinated wage formation. That's good. In addition, Norwegian women participate to a large extent in the labour market in Norway, compared with other countries, and the difference between male and female employment rates is among the lowest in the OECD. In 2021 was on the other side of 66 pst. by women aged 15 to 74 years employed. For men, the corresponding proportion was 71 pst. Unemployment in Norway is now known as the lowest since the fall of 2008. Moving to the business world, we see a lot of expressions of gender bias and gender equality challenges. Despite the overall trend in gender equality in Norway, the proportion of women in top positions in industry is too low. CORE’s top management barometer shows the situation and evolution of the 200 largest Norwegian companies. Every fourth member of the senior management groups is a woman, while only 14 pst. by the Chief Executive, Executive Director, is a woman. New numbers will also be launched this spring, and these numbers I look forward to getting. Recently, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries and the Ministry of Culture and Gender Equality have handed over the study on what can increase the proportion of female top managers in business. We have gained better knowledge of processes and mechanisms that help to maintain just the human dominance at the top of business. It's not on the women. They can, and they will, but the conditions of competition for women and men are different. The report shows what we've always known. It confirms that women take more responsibility for care. It reduces the likelihood of both having a high-level position of performance responsibility and having high income. Men have more often partners at home who work less and take more responsibility at home. They thus have better conditions for continuing to work more and agree to exciting job opportunities with more responsibility and pay. So having ground crews at home increases the likelihood of having a job at a higher level with performance responsibility and high wages, says the new report. This is why it is so important to put in place new and better measures that can lead to a better balance between work and family life. Three-part parental leave contributes to it without any doubt. In this respect, I would also like to remind you that the Equality and Discrimination Act clearly states that all, most employers, have a duty to facilitate the possibility for employees to combine work with family. They also have an obligation to work actively with equality and to report on it. We're going to work for a better gender balance at the top of private business in the future. At the top of the state sector, we can well establish that it is gender balance. If we only look at the top level of the state in 2021, in departments and directorates, it was 43 pst. female dispatch managers in the departments and 43 pst. women in senior management of the Directorates. There are eight women among the ministerial councils, and there are eight men. In the state sector, the majority of managers are women. 51 pst. by leaders are women in 2021. The State that owns has very clear expectations of companies with State ownership in terms of diversity and gender balance in the companies. We expect companies to have clear objectives and also to take action to promote increased diversity, to include better and to achieve gender balance in companies. In order to promote diversity and gender balance in the management of the company, it is essential that one also works well at all levels of the company. The work of the companies in the field is closely monitored in the ownership dialogue. The country’s owner’s report for 2021, where up-to-date figures will be available, will be presented on 14 June. When I was in the Stortinges Question Time on 6 April, I mentioned that this statement would also include some lines on the feather quota. As you know, Nav has published figures that show that the proportion of mothers who take or plan to take unpaid leave has increased from 18 pst. from 2008 to 30 pst. in 2017 and 49 pst. in 2021. Unpaid leave also increased among fathers in the same period, from 5 pst. from 2008 to 11 pst. last year. In the wake of the publication of these figures, a kind of understanding has been established that there is an increase in the spring quota that is the cause of the increase in unpaid leave. There is little reason to use the unpaid leave as an argument for scrapping or reducing the spring quota. The author of the Nav report presents complex and complex reasons for increasing unpaid leave. It is very relevant to note that in 2021 78 pst chose. The 49-week ransom with 100 pst. compensation of wages and salaries. It chooses the parents because it pays off financially. They're also told from Nav. The longer leave part with 80 pst. wages are simply a poorer deal in economic terms. Another factor to point out is that the transition between leave and nursery can be keeled, that someone has to wait for space. Let me be clear: in other words, it's not that the solution to bringing down the number of women who take out unpaid leave is to remove or cut in the birth rate. This won't lead to a fall in the number of women taking unpaid leave. It'll just lead to more fathers taking out less leave. I stand shoulder to shoulder with Norwegian men and Norwegian fathers. The Government’s political platform determines that the feather quota should be maintained and the rights of fathers strengthened. We also need to look at, together with the social partners, how we can make women breast-feed in line with health-care advice. Today we know that there are major shortcomings in the organisation of it in the workplace. But the fathers also deserve to be allowed to be home with their children. Most fathers are satisfied with today's 15 weeks. It also shows the Nav study. As of August this year, even more fathers will be allowed to take out parental leave when we introduce eight weeks of independent father-exempt rights. When we have one of the world's best leave arrangements, father should also have his right to be at home. It was just supposed to be missing. It's primarily good for the child, for the relationship with the father, and it's also good for the equality. Dad can be a co-mother, too, just so they say. We have a gender imbalance in higher education. There is no doubt that we need more women in technological studies, such as engineering training, and that more men in the future need to look for health and social studies, such as: the training of nurses. In 2021 was 36.7 pst. by the applicants for technological training for women, and only 18,6 pst. of the applicants for nurse training were male. We have to do something about that. We start work on a communication to the European Council on vocational training in the university and higher education sectors with emphasis on, but not limited to, teacher training, engineering and health and social education, and that communication should have an explicit gender perspective and propose solutions to facilitate the selection of training courses in teacher and health and social education, and that several women choose engineering studies. We've already started. We have launched a project to recruit several boys for health and care training. The project is a one-year pilot with role model actions. So there are boys in high school and high school who are the target, but also employees in school need to learn more about the issues. The University of Tromsø performs the pilot and a number of other educational institutions are also involved in the work. The pilot shall form the basis for assessing a major national project that can contribute to more males in the health and care sector. We especially need more men and people with a migrant background to primary school teacher education for 1–7. the stage and kindergarten teacher training. For this reason, the government has a strong commitment where the use of male role models is one of the measures to contribute. The University of the West manages the work and cooperates with several of the other teacher training institutions and with the organisations. We support girls and technology, because the project helps to make the path to take-up education more visible and relevant to girls. The Ministry of Knowledge is working widely to reduce gender differences in schools, and in this context they are now assessing how we should follow up the study carried out by the Stoltenberg Committee. All students shall be given equivalent opportunities so that they can make independent choices. The school shall take account of the diversity of students and facilitate the experience of all in school and in society. The Ministry of Knowledge has also revised the options to help students make less gender-based choices, and it was particularly important that the subjects should be more gender-neutral in their design. The educational syllabus for the choice of education has also been renewed, and students will be required to do so, for example: learn to explore and discuss gender-related perspectives when it comes to career choices. The gender score for admission to studies is an instrument that can help promote gender equality and gender balance in the education sector. But sex scores are not enough at all. Training institutions have an obligation to work actively, targeted and planned to promote equality and to prevent discrimination. We have therefore stressed in the recently published admission regulation that universities and colleges need to monitor and analyse why it is under-representation of one gender in the studies in question. Training institutions must draw up a plan of how to work actively to ensure a better gender balance and must take the necessary measures. The government will also ask the Human Committee, which I will come back to later in the presentation, to propose solutions to help more men choose women-dominated educations and women-dominated professions. For the legitimacy of the equality struggle, I think it is important that we talk more about what are men's equality challenges. For too long, those challenges have been put on hold. It's been over 30 years since the final report of the Mannsrollecommission was presented. A lot has happened in 30 years. That's why we want to put down a new human selection. The committee will be tasked with addressing gender equality challenges faced by boys and men and contributing to exclusion and preventing an equal society. Important themes can be family life, education, leisure, work, health, violence, sexual harassment, the living conditions of skews, negative social control and integration. The selection shall simply address gender equality challenges in the light of masculinity standards and traditional gender roles where appropriate. They shall also take account of the major changes in the human role that have occurred in recent years, and these changes occur in different ways in parts of the population. The aim is to get a comprehensive overview of gender equality challenges and to get proposals for measures that could provide a basis for more effective policy development. There is a great deal of interest in this sample. I am pleased, and we are therefore undertaking a nationwide tour with recording meetings to get the best possible and most widely distributed mandate. Then the sample is to be reduced, and then they are scheduled to deliver their investigation by 31 January 2024. That work delights me. Violence in close relationships is one of the main barriers to achieving the objective of equality in society. Both women and men are subjected to violence in close relationships. But at the same time, there is no doubt that women are subject to more serious and repeated violence than men. Women are also more often subjected to sexual violence. The Government shall present a contingency plan against violence and abuse against children and violence in close relations. Violence in close relationships leads in utmost consequence to the loss of human life. Every fourth killing in Norway is a partner drop, and most women are killed. The research shows that these killings rarely come without warning. That is, we have a great and untapped potential to prevent better. We're going to go over and take a close look at the recommendations of the partner killer committee. The establishment of a separate permanent partner killing commission is one of the possible measures we are looking at. The purpose of such a Commission will be to ensure that the learning and further development of the work to prevent just partner violence and the killing of partners takes place on a continuous and continuous basis. The government wants Norway to be a leading country in terms of indigenous rights. We would like, among other things: to this end, ensure that children’s home provision is strengthened for Sami children who have been subjected to violence and abuse. This year, funds are allocated to establish a separate children's home in the Sámi core area. The police directorate has been given the task of establishing such a children's home. Sexual harassment is a serious social problem and an obstacle to equality and full participation in the labour market. We're gonna go ahead with the Metoo game. The Metoo campaign scratched only in the surface of what the problem of sexual harassment in society is. Sexual harassment is about abuse of power. Too many people experience it at work, in the women's dominated professions in particular. You see it in school, in town, in all the arenas and areas of society. We can't have it that way. The government therefore strengthens its efforts to combat sexual harassment. That is why we have now started working on a big message about sexual harassment. It shall identify the extent of the problem of sexual harassment and propose actions in key societal areas, such as working life, education, culture and leisure venues. Sexual harassment takes place across areas of society, and the notification is to be drawn up jointly by the government, and in particular in close cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Employment and the Ministry of Knowledge. I intend to submit that message in the first half of 2024. But we need efforts to combat sexual harassment already now, and that is why we are also taking action and introducing new and important policies. We're going to ratify ILO Convention No. 190 on the abolition of violence and harassment in working life. It recognises everyone's right to a working life free of violence and harassment. We have also proposed several changes to the Work Environment Act to clarify and strengthen the protection against sexual harassment. It will contribute to a stronger local focus on the prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace. The Ministry of Defence continues its efforts to counter sexual harassment in the defence sector, and that is what is needed. They are taking action. A diversity plan for Defence and new educational training material is being developed. An awareness and information campaign is being launched, and a directive has come from the head of defence on zero tolerance against bullying and sexual harassment, and the defence systems are under way. A separate e-learning course on alerts has been launched, and a study on bullying and sexual harassment will also be carried out in the entire defence sector during 2022. The Minister for Fisheries and the Sea has taken a proper settlement with sexual harassment in the fishing industry. The Minister of Fisheries and I called a large meeting on equality in the industry two weeks after we joined. Now we support, but also expect the industry to work for the interests and rights of women at sea. We need to see more women in the fishing industry, and we need to achieve a better gender balance in the fishing industry. Work life shall be safe and equal, free from violence, harassment and hoarding. I would also like to thank the courageous ladies who have been here this year and who have raised this issue on the agenda. The discrimination subject received a total of 29 cases of sexual harassment in 2021. There's a low number in relation to the number of sexual harassment issues in the workplace. The SSB's living conditions survey shows that in 2019, about 117 000 workers reported having been exposed to unwanted sexual attention once a month or more. This is something the message of sexual harassment should look into it. There are still a number of challenges to ensure that we get an even better crisis centre offer around the country. We therefore need to look at legislative changes and measures to improve the quality of the crisis response. The offer to particularly vulnerable groups, e.g. violent people with drug problems or mental disorders, or people with disabilities, the provision of men, the protection of privacy in crisis centres, crisis centres in Sami areas and the rights of children, are among the issues to be addressed. The freedom to determine their own lives is absolutely fundamental in our society. We see too many examples of how this freedom is restricted. We have an active policy to combat attitudes and actions that lead to negative social control, honor-related violence, coercion and sexual mutilation. Combating negative social control is one of four main objectives of the government’s integration work and one of the main gender challenges in Norway today. This work is coordinated through the Action Plan on Freedom from Negative Social Control and Honorary Violence. The legal selection to carry out a comprehensive investigation of legal issues in matters relating to negative social control, honor-related violence, forced marriage, sexual mutilation and mental violence started its work in February 2022. Work and the Minister for Integration Tajik at the time gave the sample two new mandates that are important. It's about strengthening the work to prevent children and young people from being left behind by their parents abroad against their own will, and we want to work to strengthen the environments of honor and negative social control in the police districts and to improve the protection of ordinary relief services in order to catch this up. We will also strengthen the role of voluntary organisations in the integration process. Netness is a serious threat to freedom of expression and to our democracy. We need to step up efforts against onlineness. Web sites and hateful expressions affect different groups, such as: ethnic and religious minorities, persons with disabilities, skews and children and young people. Both women and men are exposed to onlineness, but the heat to which women are exposed is more often sexualized and directed at them because they are women. This is a serious and serious threat to our democracy. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, They deliver their report in August and will give important input to the important work we will continue to do. It is also true that gender has an impact on health and what are our health challenges. We need to give priority to the work on women's health in order to ensure a more equivalent healthcare service. I believe that women's health challenges are often under-communicated. There's a debate going on right now this day about whether it's good or stupid that they show that Birgitte Nyborg in the «Borgen» series has transition ages, but it might say first and foremost that the type of normal female sex plague is rarely portrayed on TV. However, typical female diseases, such as endometriosis, common disorders that affect women more than men, are under-communicated and under-prioritised, for example. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders or painful conditions, and some typical women’s diseases that often occur are found to be too late and suffer from inadequate treatment. Men’s hearts and men’s symptoms of heart disease are often the basis of both research and clinical practice, but biological factors that we do not yet fully understand, influence and distinguish the way in which men and women have heart disease. These are some examples of men's body and human health being the norm. We will therefore present a women's health strategy. It shall include, inter alia: based on a proposal from a public inquiry into women’s health and health from a gender perspective presented on 8 March 2023. The Communication will address measures for better investigation, treatment and follow-up of women’s health in healthcare. There are also gender differences in mental health. Among other things, women are more than men in contact with the health system because of mental symptoms and disorders. That's interesting, because while we know that, we also know that the suicide rate is higher for men than for women. There is a need to understand more fully the causes of these differences and to do something about it once and for all. We also know that women have higher sick leave than men. It is important to get up-to-date knowledge on the reasons for these differences. The need for knowledge of gender differences in sick leave is a topical issue in the IA R & D programme, and research is underway that will provide us with more knowledge of this. As I said, gender has an impact on health, and therefore one of the themes I want to ask the human committee to investigate is the human health challenges. It would be natural to have contact between the human and female health services in the area of health. We in the government are going to have a level playing field. In this respect, we must first of all strengthen those actors who contribute to gender equality in practice out there, i.e. the organisations, the volunteers, and ensure strong regional equality work. We're on it. We have already increased support for the four equality centres in Norway in 2022. The increase is 33 pst. compared to the previous year. The equality centres at Hamar, in Agder and in the Steigen and Reform here in Oslo are carrying out a hugely important equality work. In addition, we have strengthened the gender equality grant scheme under family and gender policies. The increase is 70 pst. Compared to last year, it will strengthen the activity of non-governmental organisations in the field of equality between women and men or with the LHBTi population. We must also strengthen the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Discrimination Department, in line with the Hurdal Platform. We also need to raise and strengthen gender equality with social partners, and in the Hurdal platform we also say that social partners should be represented in all relevant government committees. The obligation of activity and presentation in the Equality and Discrimination Act is a very important tool in the gender equality struggle. This year, enterprises with more than 50 employees have to report pay differentials between women and men and their size in actual and involuntary part-time. All enterprises with over 50 employees must also report on gender equality status in the enterprise. Gender distribution at different leadership levels should be included in the gender equality statement It is tempting to remember that without the Workers' Party there would have been no obligation to explain the law, and as we can all imagine, a duty of activity without a duty to explain is not much worth. So we want to know more about how the obligation of activity and presentation works in practice. Therefore, Bufdir has now launched a comprehensive research project on active gender equality. That project is managed by the Institute for Social Research. Such an important tool must function as intended. We follow this and are not strangers to making changes if we see that this can be even better. The point is that there should be a tool that leads to more equality and be useful to businesses. We need to keep an eye on how the coronary apathy has affected the development of equality. We have also asked Bufdir to follow developments there and have a close dialogue with the state administrators about the consequences of the pandemic. CORE, the Centre for Gender Research, is working on these questions. We know that in terms of unemployment and leavencies, the overall picture is that there are hardly any gender differences in the proportion who became unemployed. Because women are overrepresented in the industries that were first hit by the closure, unemployment increased most among women in the beginning, but subsequently a greater proportion of men among them were permitted, and the differences decreased. But the extensive part-time work, especially in the health care services with small job breaks and extensive work across departments and institutions, we know that created special challenges under the pandemic In addition, efforts to combat violence in close relationships are particularly important during crises. Here's a lesson we need to take with us. The consideration of people in vulnerable situations and the risk of violence in close relationships must become a better part of our preparedness for crisis in the future. Internationally, the covid-19 pandemic threatens the results of gender equality and women’s rights. Norway has taken action to ensure that all our covid responses have a gender perspective and that gender minorities and sexual minorities are taken into account. They also underline the need for women to be in line with men when making decisions. The pandemic has been shattered, and people with disabilities have been hit particularly hard. Many experienced reduced or total loss of services. Skive has significantly lower quality of life than the rest of the population. It's worrying. We in the government are now embarking on a new action plan for LHBTi+ people. We aim to present it by the end of the year. We will be leading the international LHBTi work and contribute more strongly to the international forums in order to overcome the growing resistance to gender equality and the safeguarding of fundamental human rights by LHBTi people globally. I have commissioned the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate to investigate the introduction of a third gender category. It's an important job for me. A third gender category opens up the possibility for people who do not define themselves as women or men to choose a category corresponding to their identity, in passports and in other papers. It will also involve the inclusion of sexually transmitted people, which has been called for a long time. Conversion therapy has major adverse effects on those exposed to it. Therefore, the government should prohibit conversion therapy. The Solberg government put forward a proposal that I think was actually rather legitimized, in some parts of society, rather than banning conversion therapy. So we have to go rounds, and we're doing it. Many skews are a vulnerable group, and conversion therapy leads to further stigmatisation and discrimination. It destroys the lives of many of those who are exposed to it. We should therefore be given a ban to ensure that both children and adults are given real and effective protection against such acts. We're also going to make a proposal for a ban on marketing conversion therapy. So we're going to ban conversion therapy and marketing it. We also need to introduce other non-judicial measures against conversion therapy to prevent this happening in Norway. Persons with disabilities are a group who are discriminated against in many areas of life and who need strong and good legal protection. I am therefore very pleased that the government of the Hurdal platform has decided that we should incorporate the CRPD into Norwegian law. This means that the law provides for the Convention to be directly applicable in Norwegian law, and an incorporation will help to make the Convention more accessible, to increase knowledge of it and to increase the impact of the rights of people on the everyday lives of individuals. This government is not concerned with discussing the existence of racism in Norway. We're assuming that it does, and we're going to do something about it. Racism and discrimination prevent people from participating in society in the same way as others, and it destroys lives. We will therefore make an action plan against racism and discrimination, and it is the Minister for Labour and Inclusion that follows up this work. There is a need for a plan and measures that focus on working life. Both the way into and up the labour market will be covered by the plan. The plan will also address the challenges posed by racism and ethnic and religious discrimination for the participation of young people in different social arenas. Here, both youth and arenas such as school and education, volunteering, leisure activities such as culture and sport and social media will be important areas. The details of the plan shall be presented on the basis of input from civil society, professional environments and social partners, as well as Work and the Ministry of Inclusion are now in the process of holding recording meetings for this important plan around the country. We have to work for equality and diversity in all areas of cultural life and sport. The Equality and Discrimination Act also applies to art and culture. Everyone must work actively to promote equality and prevent discrimination, and public enterprises and larger employers, including in the field of culture, must follow a legal approach to this work. In the future, the government will continue to work for equality and diversity in all areas of cultural life, the media, volunteering and sport. We will also assess whether there are more demands we can place on all those who receive public funds. This year, Norway's rapporteurship in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Future employment, growth, well-being, health and quality of life, power and influence, as well as a special commitment to men and masculinity are strategic areas of action. In the LHBTi field, increased transparency and freedom, better living conditions and quality of life, and building networks and strengthening civil society are our goals. An important priority for the rapporteurship is that women and men have equal opportunities in the future labour market. As one of many plans, we are going to organise a Nordic conference on gender equality to exchange experiences and discuss action for increased equality in the labour market. It is also the case that all Nordic equality ministers are deeply concerned about the increasing resistance to equality internationally. Therefore, we work together on a road map with measures to help overcome these trends, reverse the setback. We hope to get this road map in place during this year. Equal opportunities and rights for girls and women are fundamental to promoting democracy, development and growth in a society. It is absolutely essential to achieve the sustainability objectives as well. Strengthening women's rights and gender equality is one of six areas of development policy, and we have a goal that at least 50 pst., i.e. half of all bilateral assistance should have equality as its main or sub-objectives. If we're going to be able to change the distribution of power between women and men, the education of girls, the economic and political participation of women, and the right of women to control their own bodies and lives, are crucial. Women and women with disabilities are particularly vulnerable to marginalisation and encounter more barriers than men. We put the spotlight on this when we arranged the Global Disability Summit in February. In many societies, there are myths of disability, gender and sexuality, leading to discrimination, human rights violations, including sexualised and gender-based violence, and young women with disabilities are denied the right to choose their own reproductive and sexual health. Women's rights, inclusion and rights to equal and meaningful participation are central to the government's peace and security exposure. The work of the Security Council is characterised by close cooperation with civil society and early inclusion of women in peace processes to ensure gender-sensitive conflict and actor analyses, a stronger operational focus on sexualised and gender-based violence and compliance with relevant international obligations. In the UN Human Rights Council promoted Norway, a resolution this spring on human rights defenders in conflict and postal conflict. Here, female human rights defenders were raised, a group that is extra vulnerable. We also continue to play the driving role in strengthening the gender dimension and the fight against sexualised and gender-based violence in our humanitarian efforts. We want to strengthen prevention work, increase support for survivors and increase the focus on criminal prosecution. The UN Commission on Women is the most important international meeting of the year to discuss global equality and women's rights. This year’s Commission was implemented with less physical participation than usual due to the corona epidemic. This year's main theme of the Commission was the equality and strengthening of women's and girls' rights in the context of climate change and the reduction of risks to environmental and natural disasters. After difficult negotiations, agreement was reached on a final declaration that Norway had been greatly affected. The situation we are facing today, with Russia's warfare in Ukraine, reminds us all of how important it is that we continue to stand up for equality and women's rights. We will work to ensure that when Ukraine is rebuilt, women will have a natural place in decision-making bodies, in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1325, on women, peace and security. We are also extra busy with all the vulnerable women and children who are now on the run and who are subjected to gross violence, sexualized violence and trampled on their human rights. We're going to set them up. Equality does not come of itself. It has to be actively worked all the time, structured and focused in order for us to move forward, for more people to live their lives in freedom and be who they are. Therefore, an overall government shall increase its efforts for equality. We're going to do a lot of work, and we're going to do it. We will create lasting change and work for a more equal Norway. We'll never rest on what's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1148	The President will propose that the Minister of Culture and Gender Equality’s statement on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors be dealt with in a subsequent meeting of the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1163	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1170	First, I would like to thank the Committee for constructive work and the Council of State for the clarifications given in the matter. The matter we have been dealing with is based on a proposal from the representative of Mimir Kristjánsson on the harmonisation of interest rates for the provision of benefits and the recovery of fault payments from Nav. A written hearing on the matter has been conducted, but no response to the hearing was received. The Committee, in its work, has asked the Minister of Labour and the Inclusion to assess the draft representative, and she writes in her letter of reply that ‘it is not appropriate to amend the legislation as proposed by the representative of the majority of the population’, stating that it may have adverse consequences for the individual debtor. An amendment of the legislation as proposed implies that the risk of the overall recovery requirements being higher than today. The Government's response was so elucidating to the Committee that the proposal for a decision by the minority has been amended in relation to what was the starting point. It is important that the payment of social benefits is managed in a way that is both economically sustainable and socially fair. With today's legislation, the recipient who owes Nav money as a result of mispayments is required to pay the amount back over a period of time. In those cases where it is considered that the receiver should have been aware of the error and notified at an earlier date, a total fee of 10 pst will be paid, which is added to the top of the claim. If a flat fee of 10 pst. converted into a current interest rate harmonised with that raised by the proposer, the cost will be higher for many recipients. This type of harmonisation will also make it more difficult for people to deal with debt over time. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that no harmonisation should be carried out, but would stress at the same time that the assessment itself of whether the recipient should have known about the mispayment must be based on the assumptions of the recipient. In a vulnerable and life-stage, it may be more difficult to inform about both decisions and economics. Therefore, the majority consider it important that the judgemental understanding of this is properly emphasised in the overall assessment. The Committee's recommendations are promoted by the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. I expect that the minority will promote the minority proposal and argue for it. With that, I consider the matter to be illuminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1188	First of all, I would like to thank the College of the Committee for a very good work. This confirms in many ways those who need the most help and support in society, people who have fallen outside our security net, people who need to be taken seriously. What has been an important decision and assessment when we were going to land this case is to look at the consequences for the people who are in the Nav system, if one introduces a harmonisation of one kind. Then the conclusion is quite clear: if one introduces a harmonisation of interest rates at the level where one does so that both Nav and users pay a flat fee of 10 pst, in that case it will not pay for the users – on the contrary, it will make them go negative. The same also applies if one harmonises the interest on the second amount, that there is a running, smaller interest rate that goes – both if Nav is to pay out the outstanding and if users are to pay in what they owe – and in that option it becomes less legal and more demanding for those who need it the most, and now I'm going to tell why. If one today changes it from this 10 percent to a running 4 percent limit, the people who owe Nav money and who spend the longest time paying down that claim risk losing on Red's proposal. The way to conduct politics will not be good for those who already have the hardest of it. That's precisely why we want to focus on what we think is important, and that's looking at the skin assessment for those people who get a claim for a refund. In those cases where many of us, people who are comfortable with themselves, would have managed to keep an overview of the economy and discover faults in the repayment, there are many who are in a vulnerable situation where it is harder to do just that. For this reason, we are clear that the scant assessment when a claim is due to be refunded has to take greater care than today that people have a tough period in their lives. It must also be borne in mind when it relates to the requirement for interest or not interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1199	Different interest on the refund of Nav benefits and the refund to Nav has its reasons. Of course, compared to individuals, the state takes a higher risk than the opposite, and this is reflected in the interest rate on claims against individuals. If we adjusted this rate, there would be a risk that the interest rate would be lower than what other creditors require. Then it becomes cheaper to default the government's claims over other debts, and that's a situation we might not want to pursue. At the same time, the right has an understanding of the intention of the proposal. It may be unfair for the State to charge a higher interest rate than for private individuals when the State owes the money. Now, a basis of responsibility is the basis on which a private individual pays the rate of the day, and that is the fact that the person has acted intentionally or grossly negligently. I would also refer, as the majority of the committee, to the Council's letter of reply, where the Council of State writes that a change in the legislation could mean that the overall recovery requirements could be higher than today. If we're going to do something about this, we're going to have to figure out the consequences. On a general basis, the Right would also consider that interest rates are not an appropriate tool for distribution purposes. Distributional considerations are best addressed in debates on the size of Nav's benefits themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1212	I want to thank Red for bringing up the theme. There are situations where people owe money to Nav as a result of mispayments, and that one then gets a demand for a refund over a period of time. In those cases where one should have discovered the error and thus reported earlier, the recipient would be able to get a fee of 10 pst., which is added to the top of the total requirement. I want to make a brief comment on that point. There are many who are in a vulnerable situation. There are many who are in a situation where one of the different reasons is not well enough to follow up on what is being paid into your account. When there's a situation where Nav has made a mistake, I'm very much in favour of what an overall committee says -- I want to say an overall committee, I think Red doesn't disagree with what's at that point -- that one here must have a reasonable understanding of how to act. I would like to say it so strongly that, in my opinion, it takes a lot more to recover than what has been wrongly paid. The failure of the person who has received too much will then be great. There's little reason here to use the 10 pst. in other than special cases, when we know that it's Nav that has made the mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1219	I understand the proposal that has been promoted by the Red Party. It is then well explained by other representatives as to why the Committee does not agree with the proposal. However, I would like to stress what the majority of the Committee has also made a comment on, namely the importance of the use of discretion in the cases that we are talking about here. I think there's a broad consensus that it's not about the interest rate the big distribution debate can be taken, it's not where the tool to bring down the economic differences lies. In those issues, there is considerable disagreement in this room, where a majority wants a new policy course for a stronger well-being and a stronger security for workers, and has gathered to a large extent to reverse the unsocial cuts from the previous government. But when it comes to not only having welfare arrangements that secure us, but also a system that protects us when we need it, then understanding is absolutely central. It is both for the Nav meeting to be good, for you to know that it is trustful and trust-based, and that the starting point for the well-being meeting is that our questions are to be answered, our needs are to be met, and the arrangements with which we are to work together are to meet in our everyday lives. But it is also important to understand that those who work in Nav will experience professional freedom to use their heads in the job and be there for the person who needs help, who needs help. Therefore, I just want to stress the importance of having a trust reform in Nav implemented, just to be able to know it at all levels of Nav. It's supposed to be people you're there to meet, not forms you're there to feed. As a former Nav employee, I have lacked confidence, which I hope today's Nav employees can soon feel much more, as a strong contrast to top-and-down control and target and result management.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1230	If you are so unhappy that you are too late to pay your electricity bill, you must pay a late payment interest of 8,5 pst. On the other hand, if someone is too late to pay the money they owe you, you will also be paid this late payment rate. Indeed, all establishments are required to comply with the State-determined interest rate for late payment. But there is one group that is exempt from this rule, namely Nav users. When it is the state itself that is unable to pay social security and pension in time, the law says that Nav will only pay half a late payment rate, i.e. just a little over 4 pst. It is quite incomprehensible that the overthrown state should not follow the same rules that the state imposes on others. Here's one law for King Solomon and another law for Jørgen hatmaker, and we can't have it any more. Therefore, Red proposes that the law be amended to require Nav to pay full interest when they owe people money. The rich and powerful do not constitute the majority of Nav users. Therefore, this special rule constitutes considerable money for those concerned. According to the government's own figures, Nav users have lost 80 million. in the last seven years because Nav only pays out half of the interest on late payment. This is a petty savings that is completely insignificant to the state. In the case of insured persons and minimum pensioners, however, this money may make a difference. You're allowed to make mistakes, but a prerequisite for forgiveness is to make up your mind. Unfortunately, this principle does not follow Nav. So while users who fill out forms incorrectly get jailed and fined, the user does not get the same interest as people else when Nav makes a mistake. State pension funds abroad are filled in shares and securities at a value of 11 500 billion. kr. It is petty and unworthy that this state should save additional money by cheating, among other things. sick people for a few thousand dollars. If anyone in Norway can afford to pay what they owe, it is the state. It must end that retired and insured always end up at the bottom of the table. We demand equality for the law and hope the bulk of the population is with us on this. I take up the proposal from the Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1243	Then the representative Emma Watne mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1248	The proposal addressed to the discussion here today is that the interest rates on the reimbursement and reimbursement of benefits from the Employment and Welfare Seat are harmonised. In my view, the proposal for a representative is characterised by the fact that, for the sole purpose, there are two different rates that are used for the refund and the refund respectively. In the event of arrears, it is expeditious to talk about interest. The beneficiaries receive compensation for the non-paid period through an interest rate equal to half of the late payment rate. In the case of interest supplements in the case of repayments, the reality is different. The amount to be recovered shall be subject to an add-on of 10 pst. This is not a regular interest rate, and it does not matter whether the payments relate to forwards far in time. The amount of the supplement will be increased as the error payment is made. The effect is comparable to a fee, and is used in cases where the recipients are to be reproached for the error of payment. The interest rate on arrears and the interest rate supplement on accruals regulate different situations. Their effects are therefore also different. If harmonisation is to be effectively assessed, it is too subtle to see isolated at the levels set today. Real harmonisation requires an assessment of whether a more ordinary interest rate regime should also be introduced in the recovery proceedings. In my view, the representative proposal has not taken this into account. I have also noticed that the majority of the committee has not supported it. A minority have in the suspension a further proposal to double the interest level in post-payment cases, using the normal interest rate for late payment. This will lead to a doubling compared to the current level, and will further increase the expenditure of the population for this purpose. I would like briefly to mention that the regulatory framework on, and the level of, ordinary interest for late payment is adapted to the requirements of property law. First of all, it has to serve as a printing press. Basically, this is not what characterises the situation when there are post-payments from popular security. The system of interest on the afterpayment of the social security is granted in order to take account of considerations other than those in force under contractual conditions. Finally, I would like to mention that «harmonisation» means that it may be necessary to consider whether the interest supplement in recovery proceedings should be replaced by an ordinary interest rate scheme. It is then also natural to consider whether interest should be charged in all cases of recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1271	We know that the state saves money on Nav giving half the interest. Why does the Council of State not want people to lose money on this practice? Aren't we going to have equality with the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1276	From 2009 onwards, interest has been allowed when Nav is reimbursing benefits due to incorrect refusal and when the rate of its own action corrects under-payments of benefits. The same applies when benefits are provided for up to three years before a performance requirement is presented because the member has obviously not been able to submit performance requirements. I believe that this is relatively fair and also reminds me that the interest rate that would then be paid after payment is higher than what you would normally get in a bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1283	It is important to understand judgement and to be able to exercise judgment in the matter of correcting or clarifying misunderstandings. Getting together with discretion is important to meet with understanding. In my post I also called for a greater degree of use of judgement as part of the trust reform the government has announced. I'd like to hear the Council's assessments about it. Is the level of discretionary use sufficient? If not, what action will the Council of State take to ensure that it does?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1288	I heard the introduction to the representative Bergstø and thought there were good considerations and a good description of how the situation is and should be. It is clear that for the purposes of this provision on interest on arrears, there is a provision to be used where the mispayment is made on the basis of a deliberate or gross negligence on the part of the claim. In other cases, this requirement is waived, for example: if there has been bad information from Nav, misunderstandings or the recipient has not understood or been able to understand that the payment is due to an error. So it's this with trust reform. It is clear that in trust with the employees you must also take account of errors and that they can be corrected again. It's also part of having confidence in the Nav employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1295	I share the Council's assessment of the importance of trust in and trust in Nav employees. We know there have been errors in the treatment of people. We have a heavy social security scandal hanging over us. It is in a good way to be able to meet those who have both been illegally imprisoned, paid back and innocently made into cellar rings, simply, is very important. It also shows how demanding the threshold between willfulness and cannot be evaluated. What does the Council of State think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1300	There is no doubt that the matter to which it is referred has been and is a very serious matter. It is innocent people who have been affected, with great consequences for both the individual and their families. Therefore, it is important that those affected get their cases clarified, and that those who feel that they are affected should also feel that the threshold for contacting Nav is low, so that they can get it. It is clear that having confidence and a reform of trust in which to give individual employees the opportunity to use their professional skills in a good way to provide the right assistance in a timely manner is important to restore trust in Nav, to provide better services to users and also to make the best use of Community funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1307	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1312	The representative Vereide admits that he may have kept a low average good post in place, so I'm trying again. It is simply because I lost focus because of the entry and exit of the gallery – but I am not going to hang on to it. What I want to be clear about is the politics of the Labour Party and the Center Party, that is, our government party, has for the Nav work ahead of us. It's pretty clear that our biggest goal now is to build trust in the Nav organization, not only internally in Nav, but also for those who need help in the Nav system. The description that Red says it's just the very weakest thing that's going to need help in the Nav system, I think I'm a mismatch with reality. The truth is, we can all need help from our safety net once or twice in life, no matter where we may be. Then it's important that the system works. So we want to be clear about the proposal for Red and the comparison of power calculation and a case where a debt is Nav money. By harmonizing that way, a made life very much harder and tougher for those who owe Nav money, if one had had a running interest rate that had followed all the way down had paid, instead of having the 10 pst. fee that currently applies for 22 pst. of those who have to pay back. The same also applies if one had changed from a running interest rate on the Nav debt to a fixed percentage harmonised to what comes in with money, because then the people who have waited the longest to get paid out an amount from Nav would lose on the policy to Red. Having a holistic approach to Nav's work and not just looking at each other can get the strongest rhetorical points in the newspapers and on the pulpit, but also what policies seem to those who need help in the Nav – either from the upper, middle or lower layers of society – the form of political craftsmanship is what our party aims to do in time. We have a great job ahead of us in Nav, and let's make it clear: we're going to build trust, both between them added and between all those who once needed help in the Nav system.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1327	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1346	The first speaker is the interpellant, Sveinung Rotevatn. The President would like to thank the representative for training in the new Norwegian language as well. That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1353	It was good for the right-wing president to use the entire Norwegian language. He should certainly do that more often. It is possible that this interference will prove to be confirmed. I really hope he does, but I'll interrupt anyway. It's because I don't feel quite sure – and sure of what? Well, sure if and when the covid-19 infectious disease starts to rise again to the fall, and there is certainly reason to believe that they will, it is not appropriate to put in place any more invasive measures to prevent infection. The reason for that uncertainty is that we were in a quite similar situation last year. The population was double-vaccinated, groups were given refresher doses, and infectious pathogens. There began to be concerns about intensive capacity, sick absences, and votes in both bureaucracy, the media and here at Stortinget called for comprehensive measures to protect the disease. To the government's advantage, one did so to a small extent. The measures involved an established coronapass, and there were restrictions on the test regimen. Then a few weeks passed, the omicron variant came, and things were turned upside down. Of course, no one can guarantee that viruses do not mutate again to far more dangerous and more contagious variants, but my point today is to be confirmed by the government that as long as the virus variants that are in circulation are somewhat as we know them today, and the vaccine protects against them, it will not be relevant again to introduce infectious measures in addition to vaccination. Why is that important? Well, that's important because people are worried. Not least are many in the business world there. I have received many concerns from the special serving industry, who saw what happened last year, who knows who is in line first when it comes to new shutdowns and new permits, and they want security around the operation saying. So it's that when we handle known viruses and know how to infect the community with vaccines, and we know the effect of them, we haven't gotten used to using other infectious measures in Norway. It's a habit that should continue. We know that even if people are vaccinated, the infection can spread again anyway, because the vaccine has lost power, the virus will mutate continuously and diseases spread faster when it's colder in the world and people are more inside. So that almost in any case will come a wave of infection to the fall, a scarcely fortune-teller needs to get stuck. The question is, how much is the total? What we learned in winter was that as long as all are vaccinated and vulnerable groups have their refreshing cans, it is actually possible to build flock immunity without the health care collapsing, or the disease absence explodes, or that life and health are put at risk to an unwarranted degree. I hope that the government and the Council of State will take this lesson into account in the autumn and winter, and that if one has seen that there is a need to make changes at the system level to prevent new shut-downs, the work is going on for the longest time. In this context, of course, it is particularly important to look at the intensive capacity, because the main reason for shutting down in winter was precisely that, although the foundation gradually changed. If the fear was somehow correct, one can discuss it, but all the time one knew little about the omicron variant, one gets to take it anyway in the pre-war account. But the basic question is important, simply: do we have enough intensive capacity to handle even large contagion waves? Because that must be the goal. We can't have a permanent intensive capacity that tolerates huge outbreaks of viruses we don't have vaccine or protection against. No one is expecting, but we can expect our hospitals to be able to deal with outbreaks of known diseases against which we have good vaccines. So the question is, are we there today? Is the Minister of Health sure that our hospitals will tolerate a wave of known covid-19 variants of this cottage? The answer should be yes, it must be yes, because we cannot dimension the freedom of society to the health care system's capacity. It is the health service that needs to be dimensioned in order to enable all residents to live a free life. So I hope that the Minister of Health and Health will answer yes to that question. There's nothing better than that. In any case, I'm excited to answer her right immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1376	The government’s goal of managing the pandemic in the future is to safeguard life and health — while keeping society open, and the economy can function as normally as possible. There was also the background to my presentation here in Stortinget earlier, a statement that is now being discussed in the Health and Care Committee, when they chose to have it sent there. We have presented a strategy and contingency plan for handling covid-19. There we say that the management of the pandemic should be based on these principles: Society and the economy shall be kept as normal as possible. The immunity of the population shall be maintained. The burden of sickness shall be kept low. Vulnerable groups must be protected. Priority shall be given to children and young people. Society must be prepared for a worsening situation. The management shall be knowledge-based. The management shall be targeted and coordinated. The basis for the handling shall be open. Norway shall contribute to global work. We believe that the pandemic is likely to be manageable without any interventional measures. That's because many people have been vaccinated and have been infected, and that's why we have a high degree of immunity in the population. But there is still uncertainty about the development of infection, and we must always be prepared to make the situation worse. The severity of the disease and the ability of the virus to spread may change and affect the immunity of the population. Therefore, good monitoring and preparedness are important prerequisites for responding quickly and avoiding situations where we need to re-launch intervention with major societal implications. Crisis management shall follow the ordinary system for the allocation of responsibilities and tasks between municipalities and the administration. Local and national authorities must have good contingency plans and be prepared to make rapid use of them where necessary. This also applies to vaccination if it would again be necessary to vaccinate whole or large parts of the population at short notice. We continuously assess the need for refreshment doses, and there should be provision in the municipalities for vaccination to those who want to start or complete their vaccination. The Corona Commission has just delivered its second report. The Commission concludes that, overall, the country’s population and authorities have managed the pandemic well. And then we are still among the countries of Europe that have had the lowest mortality rate, the lowest burden of action and the least reduction in economic activity. Nevertheless, the Commission believes that there are several learning points, and I fully agree with that. The important points were that the authorities were not sufficiently prepared, the intensive capacity was too poor, and the municipal council function was not well enough equipped for the large tasks they were given. The immigrant population was overrepresented among the infected and seriously ill, and they were also underrepresented among the vaccinated. It took a long time to reach targeted responses for this part of the population. It is also an important learning point that children and young people were not adequately protected, in line with the objective. Now we're going to look into the report – both to learn and to get even better on standby. The government has already started work on improving intensive capacity and strengthening efforts to link Norway to EU health preparedness cooperation. As you know, the pandemic is not over in Norway until it is over globally. No one wants new shut-downs. Government and health authorities continue to follow developments internationally and nationally. Signals of development in the negative direction are to be captured early so that we can respond quickly and correctly to any change in the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1426	I thank you for your answer. There is a lot of known substance from distribution. Of course, no one wants or works for new shut-downs, but there are still some qualifying retainers in the targets that are being carried out in which I noticed. The fact that society is going to function as normally as possible, and that we are likely to manage this without interventional measures for the prevention of infection, does it seem to me that I am not adequate when it comes to my question, which is: Is the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Government confident that we will now be able to deal with new outbreaks of known virus variants to the fall without any new measures for the protection of infection? It is a yes/no question that I hope it is possible to answer yes. It comes, I'm going to assume, especially of how safe you feel that the intensive capacity is now good enough, and that you have plans to scale it up that can be put into action quickly. As the Council of State pointed out, it is true that the Corona Commission pointed out that precisely the incentive capacity does not have our good enough, I believe there is agreement in this room and that he should be better. And then the question is, where does this go? It can and should not only be about resources and money, although of course it always helps. So we're the country in the OECD that has the most sick nurses per capita. We have almost most corpses. We're clearly spending the most money on health care of all. Then you also have to look at organization. In a previous reply to me in Stortinget, the Minister of Health and Health has indicated that she agrees with us, for example. should be able to use other professional groups in support functions, such as in intensive departments in Sweden, to improve capacity. What has been done there? What are the plans for working time arrangements and turns? According to Oslo University Hospitals alone, switching to disparate turns for periods could double the intensive capacity, without anyone having to work one hour more in total. Are there plans for what can be done quickly? My point is not to guess about new and more dangerous virus variants. Everyone, including me, is certain that there is of course another situation if there are new and more dangerous virus variants. The question is, with the virus variants we know today, and variants of the corresponding type, is it certain that we are now able to handle this? I think it won't be good enough if you come to the Stortinget in November or December and say that unfortunately we still don't have enough intensive capacity, even if people are vaccinated, even if we know the virus variants, and so we have to reintroduce infectious measures. That is the question I should like the Minister of Health and Health to be able to answer a clearer yes, and that immediately gives her the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1443	This government will improve intensive capacity. It is on the Hurdal platform, and we have already started working on it – we are prepared to succeed in this process. I think it's important to stay a little bit at the Korona Commission's points of intensive capacity. They point out that there has been a professional disagreement, and that there is some background to the fact that the regional investigation that all four health regions have done together has not had the progress we would like to see clear what an intensive site really means, what is really the definition. Yesterday, health regions happily went out with that clarification. I think that's important for the further work. Then, too, the Corona Commission is very careful to say that an increase in intensive capacity alone would not prevent the need for infectious measures, so that setting similarities between having interventional measures and intensive capacity is probably a little inaccurate. We need increased intensive capacity in everyday life, but not least in crisis. It's a job that requires us to train more professionals, that we find better ways to organise the service, and that we also have a better division of tasks between the different personnel groups that make up the intensive capacity. There are several learning points in the second report of the Corona Commission. They are also very clear in their recommendations. Among other things, they explicitly recommend Norway to relate to EU health preparedness. It is a decision that the government has already taken, and there we are now seeking understanding from our European colleagues in order to be able to accede fully to that cooperation. So we've started an escalation of intensive capacity, I've already said a little bit about that. And then it's through increased surveillance we think we can capture any changes. Nor should we forget that this pandemic came as a surprise in March 2020. It came a little earlier in other parts of the world — in China and further away — but in Norway it came as a surprise. The Corona Commission states that we were not well prepared, and that is why we need to be more prepared first and foremost to follow up on changes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1458	I'm not going to thank you for a comprehensive and lively debate, but at least I'm going to thank you for the answers that have come. This is an important thing, because I don't think we can end up there again that we are in an infectious wave with known virus variants and must start introducing invasive measures against a virus we have vaccines against, against which people are vaccinated. That must be the clear goal. So the Minister of Health and Health points to very relevant learning points that the Corona Commission has pointed to, among other things. This with definitions of an intensification site, and differences between health professionals and health regions. It's good that it's now cleaned up, but it doesn't really answer the question of capacity, it just says that one agrees on some definitions. Of course, I agree with the conclusion of the Corona Commission that better intensive capacity alone could not, of course, prevent the need for infectious measures when people were not vaccinated. It almost says itself. But now we're not in that situation, because now people are vaccinated with the first, second, third and after the fourth dose. And so there are no other diseases in our society that we use to fight widespread infection when we have vaccines against them. Then we are back to my main question, which unfortunately has not yet been answered clearly by the Minister of Health and Health, whom I hope she will retain in the last article, and it is: Is she sure that we now have what is needed to deal with an infectious wave to the house with known virus variants without the need for other infectious measures? I hope the answer to that is yes. But if the answer is no, it's important that the Storting knows that, because then the Storting has to discuss in its full width quickly how we can prevent new shut-downs, or at least infectious measures, beyond vaccination. When intensive capacity is involved, it is good that more personnel are deployed. There was a stake under the previous government, and there will be a stake under this government. But it takes time to train personnel, it's not an emergency. However, there is scope for action to be taken at a faster pace. I mentioned this with working time arrangements and turns in my article. The government did not respond directly to this, but it aimed at a little more organisation. It would be interesting to hear an in-depth on what organizational grips are now being taken to ensure that one has enough capacity. Once again, I just want to repeat that if the answer is yes, that one is sure that we're going to deal with this, anything else equal, that's good. But if the answer is no, it is also important that it is said clearly to the Storting, for then the Storting must take a much more thorough discussion than he we have now taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1471	Nor should I thank you for a long and thorough debate, but for an interesting exchange of views between the inter-pellant and myself. I'm not sure what it is I'm really going to answer, because we have the virus among us today. New virus variants have also been identified in Norway after omicron. We have a high degree of vaccine, but people get sick. We don't have any invasive infectious disease control measures. What we have is increased surveillance and increased preparedness. I think that's a good plan. The municipalities have been told that they must have the capacity to test 1 pst. of its population whose situation would change. The Public Health Institute has been strengthened in order to monitor better. We've learned a lot over two years of pandemic. One of the most important things we've learned is the consequences of invasive disease protection measures. It has hit many, and it takes time to resume social activity. It notices a lot of different industries. We also see this as a clear sign of having had an impact on public health. We see a worrying increase in the number of references to child and youth psychiatry, and we're concerned that this is a situation we're once again going to tempt fate. That's what I think is the knowledge that we're also experiencing possible changes and new virus variants – a heavy experience of the consequences of invasive disease protection measures. For me to say yes or no is a slight simplification of the debate, but I understand that it may be desirable to have a quote to hang the Minister of Health on whose situation would change. We're going to monitor this, and it'll be even further involved in introducing infectious measures at a new round, based on the experience we have of the consequences it brings. Today, I had the pleasure of firing the launch shot with a gun like that on Bislett. It's the World's Day of Activity today. 100 000 schoolboys jump the Tinestat fat. It's a fantastic mass model of experiences, physical activity and being together, and we need that, because we see the consequences of the disease protection measures over two years of pandemic. We are better prepared, we have better monitoring, and we also have a anchor in the different sectors if we have to resort to infectious measures again, which we hope we will avoid.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1488	The interpellant debate is closed. This means that today's map is fully debated, and according to the announced agenda, voting will be held at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1542	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1554	As several have not registered their vote, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1573	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Bård Ludwig Thorheim on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 3-5, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party the proposals No 6 –10, from Bård Ludwig Thorheim on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from Right, Left, and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to increase the rate of fast boating during Climate Action in order to strengthen the county council’s efforts to promote zero and low-emission speedboats, including hydrogen or ammonia powered boats.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1605	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-9, from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment, in cooperation with private actors, of five hydrogen nodes for maritime transport, with the possibility of developing associated land transport solutions based on hydrogen.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the establishment, in cooperation with private actors, of one to two industrial projects and associated hydrogen production plants by 2025, the purpose of which is to demonstrate value chains with global dissemination potential.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate the establishment, in cooperation with private actors, of five to ten pilot projects for the development and demonstration of new and more cost-effective hydrogen solutions and technologies.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to further develop cooperation with the other Nordic countries on a full scale infrastructure plan for hydrogen in the Nordic region aimed at maritime and land transport. The plan shall require emission-free shipping between the Nordic countries.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1637	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that it is within the mandate of Enova to support projects relevant to the IPCEI Hydrogen Facility.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further strengthening of the Research Council’s Research Centre for Environmental Energy in Hydrogen and Ammonia.’ [[FME]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to actively work to ensure Norway’s participation and opportunities in EU processes on hydrogen development in Europe.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1666	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to provide state instruments to establish a Norwegian hydrogen industry, rather than to establish a new state hydrogen company.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1682	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of new instruments that may trigger hydrogen or ammonia projects as an energy carrier, including contracts for differences.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1704	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1723	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ove Trellevik on behalf of the Right Party and the Party of Progress proposal No 3, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, Red, Left and Environment Party of the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to send all extensions of oil exploration area, including TFO, for landfill treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1754	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the announcement of 26th run of the Norwegian concession as soon as possible and not later than the end of 2023.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a solution for the export of natural gas from the Barents Sea during the 26th round of the concession.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1783	A total of 23 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 11-14, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party proposal No 15, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 16, from Sofie Marhaug on behalf of Red and Left the proposals No 17-22, by Sofie Marhaug on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA proposal No 23, from Ola Elvesuen on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Twenty-three from the left. The proposal was amended during the debate and now reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to provide Statnett with funds to ensure a lower level of network rental in the future than planned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1819	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-22, from the Red Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The size of the notified energy reduction and increased electricity production in buildings requires the government to set a national target of saving 13 TWh in Norwegian construction by 2030 and halving the energy consumption in construction by 2050.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to expand and strengthen support for energy saving and energy production and to cover up to half the investment cost of such measures in private single-dwelling, small-dwelling, housing and joint ventures. The aid shall be paid in advance whenever possible and favourable loan arrangements shall be offered to those who need it for the remainder of the investment.’;» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to move the support schemes for climate and energy measures by households from Enova to the Husbank and to establish a free outreach energy advisory system for households in single dwellings, small houses, housing units and joint ventures. The scheme should be established as a cooperation between the Husbanken and the municipalities.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The size request of the government in the context of the State budget for 2023 to provide a plan of measures to cover at least half of all roof surfaces of housing blocks with solar panels, with measures of at least 1 TWh per year of electricity generation by 2030.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget as soon as possible and within the revised national budget for 2022 with proposals for instruments to produce solar power with a total installed power of 5 GW on Norwegian construction by 2030. In particular, the support for solar cells on existing buildings must be extended and solar cells must be supported on newly built and built integrated solar cells.’» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan to extract the potential for energy efficiency from 9 TWh professional buildings by 2030 and to ensure that the plan is detailed with annual targets and measures. The plan shall be submitted in connection with the State budget for 2023.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1862	There is a vote on proposal No. 16 from Red and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the conclusion of a three-year supplementary agreement with Enova, in which specific appropriations are granted to ensure good support schemes for energy saving and local electricity generation for both household and corporate customers.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1881	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to investigate and submit to the Stortinget measures to enable at least 13 TWh of energy efficiency to be achieved by 2030, in conjunction with or after the 10 TWh plan.’; The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1899	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-14, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government asks the government to include heat pumps in an expanded and reinforced support for energy saving, in line with the other criteria described in Document 8:130 S [[2021-2022]] Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to extend the support schemes for household climate and energy measures to several types of energy measures, including known energy measures with mature technology’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up targeted schemes with earmarked energy saving grants in private rental dwellings.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of energy class A requirements in all new public leases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1931	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, by the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the energy requirements for new buildings are strengthened to almost zero energy levels, as defined in the EU Building Energy Directive, in the next building technical regulation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e1946	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3–6 and 8–10, from the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for amendments to the Law on Planning and Building that allow for the requirement of solar power generation or green roofs on commercial, residential and public buildings.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for mandatory energy mapping of public buildings to ensure that profitable energy efficiency projects are carried out in all state, county and municipal buildings, where possible, over the next three years.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how, through the Law on Planning and Building, and by other means, it can provide stronger incentives for the development of water-borne energy from the sea to meet the need for heating and cooling of buildings in several Norwegian cities and agglomerations.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up efforts for energy measures in municipal housing and to introduce an earmarked support and incentive scheme for municipalities until 2030.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the social partners, is asked to establish a package of measures to enhance skills in energy saving in the construction industry.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that new construction regulations make more clear energy requirements for rehabilitation in order to trigger the high energy savings potential of existing building masses.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The budget calls on the Government to promote a concrete plan for energy efficiency improvement, as well as energy upgrading and rehabilitation of public buildings in the context of the State budget for 2023, and to propose the allocation of funds for the implementation of this plan.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of energy audit requirements for all professional buildings with high energy consumption, or with energy label E or lower, combined with operational personnel’.» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2001	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, the Red Party, the Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to grant funds to the counties and municipalities to enable them to temporarily employ or engage energy advisers for individuals and businesses, which can help people plan and implement profitable investments to reduce energy consumption.’ The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2056	During the debate, Sara Bell put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law on the upgrading of documents handed over by Stortinget on 24 March 2021 in connection with the processing of Document 7:2 Special Notice from the Enlarged Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Committee on classified information [[2020-2021]] [[EOS Selection]] § 1 The summary of the final graduated report of the EOS Committee, submitted to the Stortinget on 24 March 2021 in connection with the handling of Document 7:2 Special Notice from the Swedish Intelligence, Surveillance and Security Commission on classified information, is degraded. [[2020-2021]] [[EOS Selection]] § 2 The law will come into force immediately. § 3 The law shall be repealed one month after its entry into force.’;» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2123	The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2135	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2149	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. The cancellation then goes over to vote over the matters on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2160	Cases 1 and 2 are the second time legal proceedings and include legal decisions 62 and 63. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2175	In the course of the debate, Mr Sve has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the planning of the Ålesund urban package and to ensure that the plans for toll collection are scrapped, in line with the will of the people in the city.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide State full funding for Lerstadvägen and to launch this project as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the State Road Administration is continuing its work on the plan for the new E39 Vegsund-Breivika as soon as possible, where the Road Bus Cross in particular needs to be planned, fully financed by the State and implemented as a project's own advice as soon as possible.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2211	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2230	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Charlotte Spurkeland on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party; the proposals No 3-7 by Frank Edvard Sve on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the necessary planning work to be undertaken by 2022-2023 and for the period 2022-2027 of the project E16 Fernes south-Handen.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2256	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate the necessary planning work by 2022 to 2023 and to initiate the project during the period 2022 to 2027. 13 The mountain of the week.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2273	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary planning work to be started by 2022-2023 and for the period 2022-2027 of the project E39 Vågsbotn-Klauvaneset.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2290	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary planning work to be started by 2022-2023 and for the period 2022-2027 of the project E14 Stjørdal-Storlien.’
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2306	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the necessary planning work to be started by 2022-2023 and for the period 2022-2027 of the project E134 Bakka-Solheim.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2323	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the necessary level work to be started by 2022-2023 and for the period 2022-2027 of new Rv. 15 The Mushroom.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that an arm of Geiranger is planned to be added to the project throughout the course of the year. 15 The mound, and that the Moor and the Roman valley of the county are included in this work. Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2354	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2373	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 –5, from Charlotte Spurkeland on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 6, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party proposal No 7, from Charlotte Spurkeland on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to further develop cooperation with the other Nordic countries on a full scale infrastructure plan for hydrogen in the Nordic region aimed at the distribution of hydrogen to train equipment that goes between the Nordic countries. The plan shall include the provision of emission-free rail freight and passenger transport between the Nordic countries.’;» Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2402	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the climate weight in purchasing processes involving rail-going materials.’ Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2419	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 4 and 5, from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in its work on the railway concept selection inquiry, to provide an up-to-date knowledge base for hydrogen as an energy carrier for trains. Here you should distinguish between freight trains, passenger trains and short and long distances and look it up towards the establishment of the hydrogen node.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider how to facilitate the establishment of hydrogen value chains for rail materials as part of an export market.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the legislation to ensure that new energy carriers such as hydrogen and ammonia are also reviewed and updated for rail-going materials.’ Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2448	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Right and Advance Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess which routes are best suited for the deployment of hydrogen-powered trains. This should be assessed on the whole value chain, both production, distribution and consumption.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to introduce differences contracts for hydrogen which are also aimed at the realisation and phase-in of rail-going materials, where other zero-emission energy carriers are not possible or economically viable.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2480	Behind the setting are the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The other parties have announced support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2490	Case No. 6 was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2502	During the debate Emma Watne put forward a proposal on behalf of Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to come back with proposals for necessary legislative changes to ensure that Nav makes use of the ordinary interest rate for late payment in cases where users have been paid too little due to a Nav fault and are therefore entitled to a back payment.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2022-05-10.ana.ud496e2557	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
